ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning. I begin the continuation of the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jože Ašič from 12 noon onwards, Mag. Mark Diaci from 13 o'clock on, mag. Zoran Gračner from 16.30 onward, Victory Jelinčič noble, Franz Kangler, Blaž Kavčič, Leopold Kremžar from 12 noon on, Rudolf Mogue, Aloise Peterle, Igor Štemberger from 14:00 onward, Flower Zalokar Orazem, mag. Janez Kramberger, Franc Čebulj, Stanislav Brenčič by 1:00 p.m., Yuri Malovrov by 12 noon. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - this is an evocative proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of Slovenia with the draft Constitutional Law of the EPA 391 / III. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 50 of the Constitution by means of a draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed Valentin Pohorce. At its 35th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly decided to initiate a procedure to amend Article 50 of the Constitution and to postpone the discussion on the draft constitutional law and the decision on the proposal for the views of the Constitutional Commission to one of the following meetings. That is how I give the floor today to the representative of the proposers for a further explanation of the proposal. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal to supplement Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the right to a pension. The right to a pension is one of the fundamental rights of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, achieved only on the basis of their past work and the payment of their part of their pension salary on the basis of an intergenerational agreement and a law on invalidity pension insurance. This does not, however, apply to state pensions which do not depend on the length of the working period and the payment to the pension fund. The right to a pension follows the right to work if you get it, of course, and follows the most active period of life when you work year after year, thus reaching 30, 35, 40 years of work and also more years of paying contributions to disability and pension insurance for years of decent living during the third life period. And when you work day after day in shifts, afternoons, at night, and on Sundays and holidays, in the past in many difficult working conditions, for example in mines, iron shops, transport, textiles, leather, paper, coffeemaking, wood and other industries, also in social activities, education, health care, military, police, you do not think about that dose of the past work in the form of paid and earned pension. Retirement shall be granted by the law on invalidity pension insurance. In the highest act of the State, this is in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was written at the time of the creation of the modern, legal and social state of Slovenia, and you do not find the registered right to a pension in sufficiently direct, understandable form; the Constitution is not intended only for high constitutional experts who understand and see the registered right to a pension in the concept of social security. However, some recognised constitutional experts have also listened to the applicants that it is good, useful and even necessary to define this right more precisely. The Group of Members, which I am presenting as first-signed, has tabled in the procedure for amending Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal to complete Article 50 of the Constitution, the first paragraph of this Article, which we propose: "The citizens have the right to social security and pensions under the conditions laid down by law." The Constitutional Commission discussed the proposal at its meetings. Opinions were 'yes', were 'against', similar to that of the public in the public debate. Finally, the Constitutional Commission voted on the proposal and received insufficient support from the Constitutional Commission at its meeting, so the procedure would have been halted if this national assembly had not given the necessary support to the continuation of the procedure at its meeting. Thank you all for voting back then. Finally, the Constitutional Commission adopted its position on the proposal to amend Article 50 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: "The citizens have, under the conditions laid down by law, the right to social security, including the right to a pension." Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members today it is up to us to decide, after the discussion, to adopt the views of the Constitutional Commission. I suggest that you vote in favour of our proposal, for the proposal of the Constitutional Commission, this time too, and that you support us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft constitutional law has been examined by the Constitutional Commission and has also drawn up a position. Does he want a representative of the government? No, no, no. Good. Then we go to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. He's got the word "magic" first. Janez Drobnič, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u4	Good afternoon to your colleagues and colleagues. Thank you so much for the president's word. Members of the DeSUS have submitted a proposal to amend Article 50 of the Constitution in the sense that, under the conditions laid down by the law, the right to social security and pensions is guaranteed. One of the opinions of legal experts, which we have heard in a very broad debate on the Constitutional Commission, is this: this proposal does not, in a procedural sense, meet the fundamental condition for classification as a constitutional change to which it is intended to approach restrictively, even if the proposed amendment leads to an improvement of the current constitutional text, is incorrectly set out in legal and textual terms. Finally, its adoption would not solve any legal, social and political problems. So there's some truth to this for sure. Why? The separation of pensions from social security is a problematic approach, which assumes that pensions are not part of social security - we know that they are. Such thinking would also move us away from social behaviour, since it assumes that every citizen is responsible in the first place for his own prosperity, but whoever is affected in any way is in trouble and that the state helps him in accordance with the principles of solidarity and reciprocity. The proposal is therefore questionable by the principles of the general concept of social policy - the state helps those who are in distress, who go through poverty and not everyone who is rich - contrary to the principles of their own responsibility for social security, as well as the question of the principles of reciprocity: if you pay, you receive from the common budget, if you do not pay, you should not receive. So if you pay or work hard, you get a refund for hard work, or you get a salary, or a pension. This is essentially a deviation from the fundamental principles of solidarity, as some would come to a pension regardless of property and income. Our country has introduced the right to a state pension, but on two important facts, namely that some people in the past, despite their work, did not have the possibility of insurance and now became dependent. And others that state pension is guaranteed to those who have no other income to live. This preserves the principles of solidarity, but also the fairness that those who have property and income, the lady’s insurance age, do not have a pension. With the introduction of this novelty, it may be possible to devalue the hard work of those employees who have worked hard for 40 years and who have paid for their pension. In the end, you would be no different from those who did not have to work for wealth. These are real dilemmas which, of course, require answers in implementing such a constitutional provision and, of course, in writing it into the Constitution. This could lead us to think that, in fact, this is a problem of solving the vague political legitimacy of investors who, while at the declaration level, advocate for pensions and pensioners and, at the legislative level, it is questionable - the legislative procedure. Indeed, we have adopted or adopted three novelties of the pension law in these last three years. This was accepted by the ruling coalition. We opposed the opposition because with all these three novels, the situation and the situation of the pensioners had deteriorated significantly. Constitutional articles are sufficient to implement social policy, pensions, social security. However, there is probably something that needs to be improved at the legislative level. If investors also have this understanding, they can do so by valorising pensions. In Novi Slovenija we advocate that laws ensure the proper regulation of pensions and social security of pensioners on the basis of the principles and methods of payment in the pension cash and intergenerational agreement of solidarity, the sustainability of public finances and responsible economic policy management in Slovenia, which is also the most important and best basis for ensuring a decent social level of pensioners. With a proposal for constitutional amendments or this constitutional amendment, there will therefore be no special harm. The effects are questionable. The ruling coalition could rather make adequate valorisation of pensions available to the relatively legal constitutional provisions, as it is entirely in the hands of pensioners that they have reduced their pensions by 5% in the last three years, and this apparently will no longer be returned to pensioners. And we're back in the same story as last night with the disabled. It is not a constitutional problem, the problem is actions, the problem is the will of this House to adopt laws. We therefore understand the hardship and opportunity of the ruling coalition, and in particular the DeSUS, to try to cover the situation that has worsened in the last three years by means of such a proposal to amend the Constitution. We will not oppose New Slovenia in the Member State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Lenko has the floor, the position of DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-welcome representative of the government, fellow Member and fellow Members. At its 14th meeting, the Constitutional Commission adopted the views of Mr Valentin Pohorc and the DeSUS Group of Members to supplement Article 50 of the Constitution by completing the right of citizens, under the conditions laid down by law, to social security, including the right to a pension. The proposed and voted position was substantively similar to or identical to the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. As part of the debate on that proposal, the opening of the procedure for amending the Constitution at the 35th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was made clear on 18.1.2003 that the proposed amendment to the first paragraph of Article 50 of the Constitution should be supplemented. Such opinions were both debaters and professionals, since the inclusion of the right to a pension in the Constitution as a specific right from a legal point of view does not bring a direct change to the legal situation of employees and pensioners. Indeed, the current European Social Charter also distinguishes between the right to social security and the right to social and health care. The proposed and voted position therefore aligns the constitutional text with the principles of the Convention. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are aware that such a change to the Constitution as proposed is essentially more decriminal in nature, because we know that the right to a pension in a material sense can only be regulated by law, so we want to protect the right to a pension with that proposal as a constitutional right. According to the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, the pension is a right based on actually paid contributions to the pension fund, which is why our proposed solution in our social security system must have its identity and guarantee. Our proposal to amend Article 50 of the Constitution is justified in view of the fact that the pension is understood as a right from the previous part and the contributions actually paid and that, as such, it differs from the other forms of social security provided by the State, irrespective of the contributions paid. With the solution proposed, we would like to point out that, in our view, a pension based on the contributions actually paid to the pension fund is a right that must be explicitly separated from the state pension granted by the State to every citizen when he reaches a certain age does not matter whether he has ever paid contributions to such a pension. With the proposed proposal to amend Article 50 of the Constitution, we would like to point out explicitly that the right to a pension is not a right that any individual can ask for under the social security system, for example for social assistance, but is a right acquired and paid from the past, which is justified only by those who have paid contributions to the pension fund. With the proposed solution, which complements Article 50 of the Constitution, we would like to point out that no one, nor the State, nor the various international institutions that are exerting pressure to reform the pension system to the extent appropriate to them and not to us. Dear Members, on behalf of more than half a million Slovenian pensioners, I ask you to support our efforts to amend the 50th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, we will allow our pensioners to have a more peaceful third life, and this will also be our holiday celebration for Easter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic, United List, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u8	President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, we will therefore decide on the proposed position of the Constitutional Commission, which states that the first paragraph of Article 50 of the Constitution should be amended to read: "The citizens have, under the conditions laid down by law, the right to social security, including the right to a pension." Already in the debates on the Constitutional Commission and in the vote itself, we supported the proposal to start a constitutional amendment, as well as at the meeting of the National Assembly. Even today, when we decide on the proposed position, Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposed positions. We will vote in favour because the amendment to Article 50 will explicitly stress that the right to a pension is a constitutional right or that it is one of the fundamental human rights. At the time of the decision-making, or by the procedure for amending the Constitution, the Section noted that an intervention into the Constitution was not necessary in the proposed manner, since it did not eliminate any legal, political, social or other problem which would have already proved to be in practice or could at least be foreseen as a real possibility. True, it is not necessary, but at the same time it is true that it is not harmful. Despite these warnings, the National Assembly decided to initiate a constitutional change procedure. This time, the opinion of the expert committee on the proposed position was softened, for it notes that the position is certainly much better or more professionally acceptable than the proposed text of the draft constitutional law at the outset. In his explanation for the proposal, the first-signed applicant stated that he wished to stress with the right to a pension that only this stems from the contribution made by the citizen from his income and that this is a right given to him on the basis of his past work. Let me stress once again that the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposed position. As Miran Potrč said at the meeting where we decided to open the procedure for amending this Article, on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, the pension is an exceptional social right, as a rule the right to work and on the basis of the contributions paid under the pension scheme governed by the State and which must be based on intergenerational solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr France Cukjati, Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Like yesterday, when we talked about people with disabilities, we are here, in this case, somehow all understanding the problems, problems or the need for this country to remain or become a social state and provide the right conditions for the lives of all those who end their working life. Therefore, those who did not invest during their work, or those who might not have been employed, should also be provided with a pension - at least so understood from the explanation of the applicants - who did not invest at the time of their work, or those who might not have been employed, were not insured and so on. It is also certain that no one should be without social rights at age-old age - for sure. Everyone must be provided with minimum living conditions - for sure. And that is how we understand our social state and our constitution, which takes account of the need for a social state. And the current text states that everyone has the right to social security, social security means the right to such income or social assistance, which allows him to have a minimum life at an old age. Surely, those who do not have a pension should receive social assistance, who have a low pension, should receive a social allowance - and get it. Whether or not the pension he receives is sufficient for survival and for a man worth his life is another issue. It would probably be more appropriate to talk about this issue. For the right to a pension in terms of social security is already guaranteed in the Constitution. And just the text, the addition of the word itself brings nothing new. The pensioners in this title will no longer receive a tolar, and those who do not have a pension will receive or already receive a state pension or social assistance will not receive a tolar. This must be said, because of the principle of honesty to all the elderly and also to ourselves, that we do not deceive people or say what we will bring into our system - nothing new. However, it is good that the word itself is included in order to give some symbolic attention to the pension, as we did yesterday in the sense of disabled persons. Nothing new, nothing added, no improvements, maybe some symbolic conclusion or recognition. But there is another problem that we want to point out in this case, as in the case of disabled people. In this case, too, social security is an area that is not regulated. One area that is deeply felt by all those who have grown old and impoverished. If someone is lonely, alone at home, aged, unable to help himself, can't even walk up the stairs, can't even go to the store, can't have good income, doesn't need an extra pension, doesn't need social assistance, has enough money, but he can't go to the store for a short time to buy bread and milk. He can't even go to the basement to provide central heating, he can't even wash himself - you'll tell him to hire a housewife and serve him or nurse him 24 hours a day. He doesn't have that kind of money again. And such cases, ladies and gentlemen, are great; look at your environment where you live. This includes the European Social Charter, adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and ratified in Slovenia in 1996, and has two areas entirely separate in terms of social security. Article 13 speaks of the right to social assistance. And there, in point 1, I should quote, "that it is necessary to provide every person who is without sufficient resources and is unable to provide such funds either by his own efforts or from other sources, with sufficient financial assistance." It's social assistance. These include various social allowances, pensions and the like. Surely, if I were to be respected by this European Social Charter, then even those with minimum wages should be given social assistance, because they cannot survive, they cannot survive. But that's another problem. All I'm talking about right now is the system. This assistance is provided in the Constitution and also in the system, otherwise not sufficiently, but it is defined. Article 14 of the European Social Charter, however, speaks of the right to social security services and says that the State must provide the services that provide this assistance with social protection and in point 2 also promote the participation of individuals and voluntary or other organisations in the establishment and operation of such services. That's what we don't have. This is what would be valid in the Constitution to supplement and harmonise our Constitution for the European Social Charter. This is the parasitic human aid, not the financial, human aid that needs to be organized and offered to these people. It may be enough once a day for someone to get to the man I mentioned, bring a warm meal, and perhaps wash the laundry or do something else in an hour, and do this work. Nothing else, gentlemen. But this supply is not in our constitution, nor in our methods, in our laws, nor in practice. If we were to take social security seriously, this social security should also be extended to social care. That is why, of course, we are adding to the amendment to complement this provision in the Constitution, saying that everyone has the right to social security, including the right to a pension and the right to social security. I will say as with the disabled: if, of course, it is not just that, I would say, the fog of choice, I will not say a floscule, but a nice gesture to mention the pension, but it is a real desire to complement our social system, then we will add and accept our amendment, with which this concern also extends to social care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Bozič, Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, representative of the government! The purpose and necessity of amending Article 50 of the Constitution was to have advocates from the outset, as well as those who were or were somewhat detained until this amendment. In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the proposed amendment to Article 50 of the Constitution, which is also intended to define the right to a pension, constitutes a change in the declaratory nature. In the future, we believe that only the law will regulate pension rights in a material sense. The section members have assessed - and we agree with their opinion - that the first proposal was not the most appropriate. In the Slovenian People's Party, we proposed the following wording of Article 50's Supplement: "The citizens have the right to social security, including pensions, under the conditions laid down by law." However, the Constitutional Commission has adopted a very similar position which provides for the right to social security, including the right to a pension. Despite the legitimate question whether change is formally necessary, as many experts point out, it is only necessary to take into account the changes we are witnessing in the area of the pension system. All European pension schemes face changed circumstances and reforms, which are trying to adapt to them. Demographic trends are changing dramatically, the use of pensions is increasing, and among other things, there is a deterioration in the ratio between the active and inactive population. The difference between income and expenditure is increasing, mainly in a negative direction, says, to a cost level; we have to accept the fact that both Europe and we in Slovenia are getting older and that we will have to respond appropriately to this situation. Efforts will be needed to underpin the intergenerational consensus that will help resolve the issues that are increasingly present and increasingly acute on the basis of this conclusion and this fact. The position adopted by the Constitutional Commission is acceptable to the Slovenian People's Party and will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Youth Party will be presented by Mr Vnučec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The fundamental reason why the Young Slovenia Party supports this proposal is the desire to provide pensions for future generations. Indeed, a change of constitution is unnecessary for today's generation of pensioners who have the right to their pensions already guaranteed. The support of Members of the Young Slovenia Party is purely and mainly because the reform of the pension system is so uncertain that the right to a pension is a questionable right primarily of young and middle-aged people. Today’s pensioners will surely receive their pensions for the rest of their lives. But what about the young people we still contribute to the pension fund on the basis of an intergenerational agreement? Unfortunately, we do not know yet. In addition to these contributions, the government and the finance minister constantly remind us of the need to save for safe age and invest in what kind of pension insurance. We also support the proposal in the Parties in order to point out that future generations must also enjoy the right to a pension to the greatest extent possible, although today's situation does not promise it. Our support for the proposal also goes mainly towards maintaining pensions in the future, but it does not mean that the system today, so the current pension system can no longer be changed. In our view, this system needs to be changed urgently, as it is not fair for young people to support the current pension system while at the same time saving for their pensions. In what way should this be enshrined in the Constitution, it is a matter of profession that is not too excited about this change, but shows that we have every reason to support this proposal and that the profession will have to take this into account. We need to provide at least this constitutional norm to young and middle-generations, which they will be able to refer to in the event of the collapse of the pension reform, which, we are sure, will happen sooner or later if some major changes to this system are not adopted in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word has Ljubo Germič, Liberal Democracy. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At its 35th extraordinary meeting, on 18 November 2003, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal from a group of Members with a first-signed Valentin Pohorce to initiate a procedure to amend the 50th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly agreed with this action that Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia should be supplemented by including pensions as part of the right to social security, in order to ensure that the Constitution, when explained by the applicants as a right to social security, also explicitly guarantees the right to a pension as one of the fundamental human rights. As we know, the section in the Constitutional Commission to this proposal has been negatively defined, since it does not consider it necessary to adopt it because it would eliminate any legal, political, social or other problem, and its objective is fully achieved by a proper interpretation of the current constitutional provisions. Despite the expert group's negative opinion, the Liberal Democracy Group supported the proposal to initiate the procedure by joining its fellow Members, who felt that it was also necessary to ensure fundamental intergenerational solidarity in the highest national act. We also listened to the expert group's opinion that the proposal is not well-formed because it separates pensions from the context of social security, which we think is a professional mistake. The right to social security constitutes a broader framework and pension rights constitute entitlements resulting from contributions from the past work. That is why we supported the proposal on the Constitutional Commission for a position that removes these professional concerns. Thus, the Constitutional Commission proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt the position that the first paragraph of Article 50 of the Constitution should be amended by saying: "The citizens have, under the conditions laid down by law, the right to social security, including the right to a pension." This new dictatorship now clearly treats pensions as an element of social security and also removes the wrong interpretations to establish a constitutional basis for the introduction of so-called state or national pensions. For these reasons, the Liberal Democracy Group will support this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u17	Thank you very much. There is a debate between Members and Members on the draft constitutional law and the position of the Constitutional Commission. First of all, Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Obviously, from all of these debates on constitutional change, we will probably get three changes, which will only or only be of a declaratory nature. They will not mean anything for our citizens and citizens, but only in the main finesse, which can be promised with words, but will not be applied. The mountain shook, three changes were born - probably - of the constitution, this will eventually be written and unfortunately we spent a lot of time doing little. What else is the problem with this constitutional change? Therefore, the pension will be incriminating if we write it down in the Constitution, a right that is reprehensible to everyone. This means that he will also get a pension if he has other sources of living and has never worked. Let's say that he has a lot of capital, he has a lot of wealth, and he also lives out of it, at the end of his life, or in his mature years, he's going to get the right to a pension. These are real and legal sequences. We need to ask ourselves whether this is in accordance with our principles of solidarity and reciprocity - to help the one who, therefore, is weak, gets into trouble, is sick, cannot with his own part because of his handicap, because of his disability gain his income in order to survive. Of course, pensions are a questionable category in terms of demographic change, as fewer people, i.e. fewer and fewer people are born, fewer and fewer young generations entering employment in younger years have also moved into employment. If we look now at the last two generations, generations, for example, 20 years - 40 years - the entry of jobs has moved at least five years since the previous, for example, there, I don't know 19 years, 18 years, has moved to 23, 24 years. Generations all later enter, thus, of course, reducing payments to the pension register, less actively employed in this way and more dependent members. Besides - what I mentioned - demographic changes to make fewer people born. And the next thing I can tell you is that employment in public services is increasing, which is the burden of the state budget, and it is decreasing in the real sector, as some say, and the number of employees in small businesses is decreasing in self-employed enterprises and so on. This is a sad result of the management of the economic policy of the Liberal Democracy, which, by the way, beats the chest to maintain the number of employees, but at the expense of employment in the state sector, which imposes an accumulation or vitality. Because investment is consumption. There's something else about pensions. When we look at this average pension statistics, how they have changed over the last three or four years, since the last elections, when the Liberal Democracy set-up took over this last mandate with its coalition partners. Age pensions decreased on average between 2000 and the end of 2003 from 75.8 and almost 76% to 71%, by 5% in real terms. But, you know, this is a question, not an amendment to Article 50, but a real fall in the pensions you've caused by alignment. You wrapped this up in different formulas, criteria, I don't know what else, but you actually brought your pensions around. But the electoral code was then, if Bayuk's government were to take your pensions. You're involved in this saying, you did it yourself. Disability pensions from 61% to 53% - 4%. On average, however, from over 68% to 64% in three years alone. So this is the image on one side of the declaration, on the other side of the pension, of how they move and affect the living level of the pensioners. Disability pensions, you say, are increasing. Of course, because only 3%, 4% of disabled people are involved in professional rehabilitation. If we are doing a comparison, let us make a comparison with other European countries and you will find that virtually every disabled person who wants to re-enter the labour market is going into one of the forms of professional rehabilitation. Everyone, not only because of overcoming their own, this declines or reduces or loses their ability, but also because they can follow modern trends in development technology, science, organization and everything that is happening in this world. These are questions of how to ensure in this area of employment that the generation will also enter employment after the 1960s or after 55 years. Still. How this older generation can contribute to development and economic recovery. There is talk of a third university, talking about a generation that can make a significant contribution to this -- in a suitable way, not only to sacrifice something, but also to gain from it. With partial employment, with special niches where their knowledge can be used, their experience. These are issues that are now being raised in the European Union, but because of demographic change. Not to want the older mature generation to want something bad, but to participate in everything, good and risky. Those are the questions! This is, I think, merely exceeded - it has no special value in the amendment of Article 50, the right to social security and pensions. It's a declaration. So obviously, these constitutional changes will only bring about a change that means a declaration. People will say, thank you so much for such a national assembly and for your torture where it's unproductive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now we've heard what it's like to be married, this stuff. But we're in the process of changing the constitution! I think I could break the debate that we have actually resolved with the pension law and other regulations. I'm going to talk a little bit about this 50th article and these changes, and I'm going to say I'm going to back it up right now. However, account must also be taken of the opinion of some lawyers, as we have read that this 50th article is already providing a pension. But it says there that they have the right to social security - so to speak, the citizens of Slovenia. Whether a pension is included here is questionable to me. Why? Because social security, in fact - even though they have the right, it does not guarantee the state as such because it is a broad concept. But I deserve a pension myself, with my work: I invest something, and I have the right to get what I have invested. This is not the case with social security. I mean, social security -- someone who doesn't have the means to survive, then the state does, whether he deserves it or not. Well, that's the difference. And I think this right to social security does not include pensions, and I think it is good that we should also write this word in particular; this right to this pension to become a constitutional category. And one more thing. As regards pensions, when it comes to intergenerational solidarity, it is questionable if one generation - theoretically - once said: we will no longer be solidarity, that is to say, we will not contribute to those who have already retired, but let us solve in another way. But if we write it in the constitution, it will probably be treated differently! And I don't think that would happen -- of course, I speak quite theoretically. On the other hand, a country with different laws and everything we've heard here, and height -- it's governed by laws, it can't be in the constitution. So, even the state intervenes in this right to determine the height or not what ratings. However, if we put this in the constitution, it is likely that the country will also have easier work to do with this matter. Since this is a constitutional category, it should behave differently. Well, it's nothing special. Personally, I do not think that this change will increase the pension either, because in other ways we come to this, and I think it is quite appropriate. The original proposal, something was, just to add this word "pension" - I don't think it's good, and what the Commission has proposed, I think it's quite appropriate that this change of constitution should be formulated in a different way. I just want to say something: I have heard today that this country does not really care about those who cannot go to the store or to the basement. In some congregations, I can say that social work centers have so - called home - care facilities. Of course, there are also the costs of local communities, municipalities, and this works. So no priority is to say that this is not arranged, it can be arranged, of course, it needs funds, but some congregations have done very well or have resolved this problem well. In the end, that's all I'm going to support: I'm going to support this change, so we're going to give this thing an ad act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick. Would you like a word, Dr. Bernick?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Welcome government representatives, our Members and Members of Parliament. I thank you for being able to speak on this occasion, because I am a pensioner and I myself know what the problems of pensioners are, but I have some problems with this proposal, because this proposal is unique in its own way and it is difficult to get it anywhere in other constitutions. It's two specifics that we have in existence. One of these is that our pensioners are very well represented in political bodies, and they have their own party, which is also an anomaly from the point of view of other countries. Then there's another specialty that I've never seen in the world, and it's that a pensioner with us is some kind of profession that drags our pensioners to death and somehow, if you look at these obituaries, you'll see prominent doctors, lawyers and so on are called pensioners, which is a perfect anomaly, because in the world this applies: once a lawyer, once a doctor, a priest - forever the same. And it seems to me that it is extremely important for social security or for the social status of what we all want to have, whether we are retired or not. Of course, it also raises the question of what we can achieve by giving a pension to the Constitution as a constitutional obligation of the State, because then we should make an insurance policy, and all these things absolutely, a constitutional right which the state cannot reduce, but must constantly maintain, regardless of the situation. Let's say we have some kind of crisis, natural disasters, war and so on, and the state can't do all the duties it has to citizens for these reasons - what then can it do to make them pay their pensions? Or should it abolish certain other obligations such as insurance, social security and so on. In such cases, there may be no other option than to abolish other rights, but it pays pensions and the security that pensioners require. You would think that it is also possible to take care of pensioners not just by giving them constitutional rights, which would probably come to me, because I pay only medical or pension insurance, but, as I understand the Slovenian law, is not allowed, for the first time: I will get a pension at the end of my term; for the second time, the panita has no right to get back what I have paid in. This is an obvious injustice, no matter what. Some of you will say, "Yeah, you're fine with why you took this job." I didn't take it because I wanted to have a pension here, absolutely not, but I know I had to pay my pension or my American pension here in our country. Let me be very brief, let me finish. It seems to me that this right to the constitutionality of the pension is serious, interesting and also attractive, but I think what this will give the pensioners is just an illusion and nothing else. Even though I'm going to try to support this thing, because I think it's a thing that a person can't somehow throw away, no matter how unrealistic it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar? No, no, no. Then my list of discussers is exhausted. The government? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. Procedural? Here you go, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u24	[[...]] [[Not included.]] as we are moving on to a decision, please, on behalf of the Group of Members, for a 15-minute recess to consult with regard to the position put forward, which slightly deviates from our basic proposal, and I think we are entitled to it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u25	Of course you are, Mr Kebrich, but first we would like to discuss the amendment. Now we have an amendment, a debate first, and if you're up for it, then I'd give you 15 minutes off on your proposal. In short, I am closing the debate, we are moving on to a debate and, of course, also a decision on the amendment to the position to be taken on the basis of the review of the amendments of 8 April 2004. This is an amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm asking, who wants a word on this amendment? Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Vice President. This amendment will not be supported by the Liberal Democracy Group, because we are of the opinion, quite simply, that if we are talking about social security, there is also a provision included in it. That's what they say. The concept of social security is broader. And this supply, I think it's tighter. Well, man doesn't mind, but what I'm saying is, the hedgehogs listed in there, it's better to keep social security. So we will vote as the Constitutional Commission has proposed and we will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u27	Thank you. Anyone else with regard to the amendment? No one else. I conclude the debate and before the decision, on the proposal of Mr Kebric, 15 minutes' rest. Thank you. We'll pick it up at 11:16.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u28	Ladies and gentlemen! Before we make a decision, we'll give Mr. Kebrich a word, probably if that's what he wants. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u29	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u30	Can I please have peace in the hall, please?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u31	We have consulted and agreed on how we will vote on the amendment in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u32	Mr. Kebrich, I'm sorry. Oh. K. Thank you. So, before the vote, let me warn you what we are voting on. We vote on the amendment to the draft position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal to amend Article 50 of the Constitution. This is a correction of the amendment prepared by the SDS Group of Members and has a date of 8 April 2004. Let me get this straight. If this amendment is adopted, of course we will no longer vote on the position. It is said that it is being replaced in full, but if not accepted, of course we are going forward and voting on the position. Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote, I would like to inform you that, subject to the third paragraph of Rule 178 of the Rules of Procedure, an amendment to the position will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is, 46 or more Members and Members. The same majority also applies to the adoption of a position. Can we get to the vote, please? We've got the cards so we don't have to do it again. Look, please, if the cards are inserted. So, good. Let's vote, please. Apparently there was something wrong with the voting devices in two, three or one cases, I don't know. Well, I'm asking you to check the voting devices before we vote, this is what we keep repeating. And now we repeat the vote. We're voting again on the amendment, please. Let's vote. Of the 66 present, 24 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has therefore not been adopted, so we are moving on to a decision on the position as proposed by the Constitutional Commission. Mr. Lenko, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u33	So, I will vote in favour mainly because it has been pointed out several times that it is a separation between what is a pension and what is social assistance. I think that this was also then processed in the professional circles, that this must be separated and that for constitutional lawyers this is a lesson that remains understandable, but in the view of constitutional experts, some, it has been suggested that it is right that it is so written that they will also understand those to whom it is intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u34	Thank you. And Mr. Pohorec. Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I too will support the position adopted by the Constitutional Commission by the majority. I think that, too, the opinion of the majority of Members, if the Constitutional Commission, which is made up of a similar relationship, has taken such a position. And to give this position its positive assessment also a large part of the professional public, so I will vote in favour of these views of the Constitutional Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u36	Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u37	Thank you for the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. We will support this position, which has taken into account, if I may sum up the debate in the previous case, it has been made clear that this position gives us constitutional right, subject to the laws. Why do we want and ask for support to put this in the constitution? It is necessary to know that laws are passed by ordinary majority and may be amended by such or other policy options if it has a majority of its own wishes. However, the Constitution cannot be amended, especially because of this, more difficult because a two-thirds majority is needed. In response to a little of those concerns that say we are a phenomenal pensioner, I can tell you what many already know that there are already pensioners in Europe in 13 countries. There are also representatives of pension parties in parliaments. I can also tell you that there are already 26 pensioners in European countries. Not then to say that we are only a phenomenon, that we will dance one summer, as was once said in the previous term, but it is essential that we write a constitution so that future generations can also ensure that this is a constitutional right that will be enforced in one way or another, on the basis of laws that will be adopted, how a pension is allocated, which will reflect how the older generation will be respected, how solidarity between the younger generation and the older generation will be determined. And above all, that the older generation still wants to live a longer life with or on demographic change. This also leaves older people with a long history of national ownership and their experience of wanting one way or another, either economically or politically, to contribute more in order to achieve the well-being that everyone, when working or being affected, needs to be maintained and supported by social society. That is why we appeal to your conscience to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll just let you explain your voice. Not the debate, because you had a debate, but you didn't use it. Just an explanation for the voice. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u39	I will not object to the proposal for a constitutional amendment concerning Article 50. But it would be far more fair, dear colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition, to propose, instead of such empty constitutional provisions, the appropriate valorisation of pensions, since these pensions have been reduced by 5% by both the disabled and the elderly during the term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u40	Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u41	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party, we have supported both the amendment and we will also support the proposal of the Constitutional Commission. But, ladies and gentlemen, we're fighting over the back of the shadow. Around the back of the shadow! In addition to social security, the first proposal added an additional category of social care, and you rejected it. How can you now say it's the one we're going to support? How can you say that this is the right thing to do, because we do take it? If we give anything, let's give the best we can. In my name, I will support both proposals, but I do not think that this is an honest attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u42	You can only support one more. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. I will support the proposal, because this national assembly is already a lot of harmful things, and this time we have a proposal that is not harmful, but also useful, and nothing will be better for the pensioners. Once again, I would like to point out that several initiatives have been taken to improve social security in terms of ensuring the right to social care, but unfortunately, in order to improve social security, this State Assembly is not hearing. After all, in this situation, I must be glad that this national assembly does not actually propose reductions in social rights. It already means something, and we're already happy with it. That is why we will support a harmless proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I too will support this proposal, even though I do not think it will bring any good. That is why I do not know where such a vehement explanation of DeSUS and requests is, in fact, not their proposal. It would make more sense if we put our votes on the previous proposal. Well, after all, I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Respectable all together! I'll just give my opinion in person. Indeed, all these constitutional changes, not just today, except perhaps those of the provinces, are not necessary in my opinion and are nothing more than unnecessary blackmail of individual groups. How long, paper, money we've thrown away for this unnecessary debate. I'm just wondering what will happen now with these changes, if they happen to be established differently than before -- absolutely nothing in any field, I'm sure of that. Otherwise, I will not oppose this proposal, nor have I opposed the other proposals you have proposed, because they are actually irrelevant and unnecessary, but as I have said, it is all unnecessary blackmail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u48	Thank you. Can we get to the vote now? Let's vote, please! Of the 66 present, 64 members and Members voted in favour. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the position has been adopted. On the basis of the position adopted, the Constitutional Commission will prepare a proposal for a constitutional law for one of the next assembly meetings. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed law on income. Ladies and gentlemen! Before we begin this point, let me remind you that today there are open votes, that at each point we are voting against, on amendments and so on. That's why I'm asking for your attention. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Government representatives are not yet in the Chamber. They're coming? I welcome the Minister and ask whether he wishes to explain further the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Income Act, which is under consideration today, was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for first reading in December 2003. In the general debate last month, the esteemed assembly assessed the draft law as appropriate for further consideration. I am pleased that we will have a second reading of this bill today. I assess that the debate held so far on that law, in particular the debate on the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy, which considered the draft law as a parent labour body, was qualitative, and that the text, except in certain segments, of the amended law adopted by the Committee, followed the basis and principle on which it was drawn up and on which the law was based. For, honourable Members, the purpose of this tax law is to introduce certain changes that will mean achieving the basic objectives of the law under consideration, and this is in the global burden of the debtors, especially those of the lower income classes. As much attention has been given to tax relief and relief in the debates so far, I call on you, honourable Members, to try to build on the above-mentioned objectives and principles of the law and the financial framework that follow the objectives of tax reform. In our discussions so far, we have reached certain solutions which the Government believes are consistent with the starting points. In the area of agricultural income taxation, an initiative was adopted to exempt income from cross-border aid between farms. Taxation shall be exempt from direct payments for ECO 2 environmental programmes and ECO 3. It was also accepted that persons engaged in agricultural activities should be allowed to enter the actual income determination system on a voluntary basis. In addition, during the transitional period, persons who will identify income from agriculture and complementary activities on farms will be allowed, on the basis of accounting, to allocate income to all persons in the household of the debtor who participate in the achievement of this income and are included in the compulsory pension and disability insurance provided for in this Title. The average remuneration period for farm investments is extended from five years to seven years and the gradual integration of direct income payments is extended from three to four years. Another area is the child’s relief. The system of increasing relief for each of the following children is changing, as is the case in the current system, this is an increase in the relief for each of the next children for a certain percentage of wages. Thirdly, let's make it easier for different purposes. A further reduction in the tax base of 2% of the annual tax base of the taxable person for the interest paid was accepted from the loans obtained to solve the debtor’s housing problem, which the debtor will be able to impose in addition to 2% of the relief for other different purposes. Interest. The proposed solution in the area of interest taxation is adequately improved, and in addition to this amount we have a different way of integrating more than 300,000 into the tax base. Taxation of capital gains. The criterion for the main ownership share and certain additional amendments has been amended. The changes adopted by the Committee mean, according to the Government's proposal, a reduction in income by about 15 billion tolars, that is, by more than 40%, an increase in income from income tax made possible by a change in legal persons' income. In addition, some amendments deviate from the principles of fair taxation, so I ask you, Members and Members, to reverse these changes in today's debate and to support those amendments that will bring about the extent of the reduction in income to the extent that the change in corporate income tax allows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. At the same time, I welcome the rest of the Ministry of Finance team. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! That bill was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent of the labour force at two meetings or at one session with marathon continuation, and in the course of the various amendments in the controversial debate on individual legal solutions, as well as in the case of individual amendments and amendments to individual proposals adopted by individual applicants certain amendments or improvements to the basic text of the law. We took note of various comments or proposals by amendments from different stakeholders. I must say that none of these proposals went in the direction or almost in the direction of extra taxation, but in the direction of introducing additional reliefs or exemptions. After a very thorough discussion, the Committee adopted certain amendments to the specific provisions of the law, namely, on agricultural facilitation, which exempts from the tax base the benefits of cross-border aid between agricultural holdings in the context of machinery costs and payments for agricultural policy measures for environmental programmes. These payments relate to the introduction of environmentally sound technologies and the adaptation of organic production standards paid on the basis of the estimated value of loss of income or higher costs due to such technologies. We have also extended the period by which direct or direct payments from agricultural policy measures are to be fully included in the basis for the income assessment, namely 100% in 2008. It is a very important provision that those persons engaged in basic agricultural and forestry activities may be included in the actual identification of income and expenditure within the farm without therefore having to acquire the status of a single individual entrepreneur. The minister had already talked about reliefs or changes for dependent children, so he would not repeat that. It is also important that income from life insurance be excluded from the exemption from income, thereby encouraging the conclusion of life insurance as a form of long-term savings or savings for old age. An additional 2% relief has also been introduced to address the housing problem of the taxpayer, and this framework also includes the exemption of income interest payments under the national housing savings scheme. It is essential that those benefits from amateur, humanitarian and sports activities are considered to be an exemption if they do not exceed 150,000 tolars per year. In this case, it is assumed that the purpose of these activities is not to generate income or that the recipient is solely intended to cover the costs related to the activity of the taxpayer. A very important change, in the opinion of the members of the Committee, is that the tax base of the employment relationship does not include the premium of voluntary supplementary pension and disability insurance paid for the account of a professional athlete by the employer to the operator of the pension plan, up to the amount equal to a hundred per cent of the compulsory contributions for pension and disability insurance for the worker of the insured, but not more than 50 per cent of the annual gross income of the athlete. This change has been adopted due to the specificity of the sport career, which is significantly shorter than the general working age of workers and we propose a significantly higher tax relief. With such a solution, we will also stimulate athletes to allocate funds during active sports careers for additional pensions and disability insurance, from which they will receive income in time, in advertising, in sports pensions. This is particularly encouraging for young athletes who, at the start of sports activities, tend to think little about their social status and the situation after the completion of a successful sports career. The Committee has also changed the criterion for determining the principal share of ownership, namely Article 87, which is defined as any equity share on the basis of which, at any time in the past five years, the debtor has or has had a share directly or indirectly through the related persons, at least one percent of the capital or at least one percent of the company’s share class, whose share capital exceeds EUR 200 million when the equity is acquired. The profit from the removal of shares other than the principal shareholdings shall be taxed if the recovery took place before the expiry of three years from the acquisition. This would briefly be significant additions or improvements to the basic text of this so important law. Finally, I propose that you, your fellow Members and colleagues, support the amended proposal of the law by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 35th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to a debate and decision on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will otherwise lead on the basis of a review of the amendments. This is the first review of the amendments, which has a date of 8.4.2004, but since this is an extraordinary meeting, it is time for the amendments to be tabled by the end of the debate. We have here now. [[...]] [[A consultation.]] We have here a few amendments in a row, as they were filed, something else is being copied. So I would like to ask if you have already been distributed, because I see that they share the material, a review of the amendments to the supplementary proposal of the Income Act to Article 21. So, first of all, I ask you whether you have an amendment to Article 21, namely the amendment tabled by the LDS Members' Group, the United List and DeSUS. This one's in copying, or are they sharing it right now? You don't have it yet, and the Members don't have it yet. Then I ask you if we can take a few moments to get this text or read it. Let's wait for the text. Dr. Bayuk has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, we have Article 21 on the bench today when we begin the session. Maybe there's another one coming. I'd just like to ask. Oh, you sent another one. I propose, Mr President, if it is possible to take one break, maybe half an hour to get a clear review of what we have by then, because it is impossible to follow this debate. I understand the extraordinaryity of the meeting in such a way that it does not remove the seriousness of our debate. And in a mess like this, it's very hard to work. I understand, however, that, on the basis of the rules of procedure, it is still possible for someone to submit something, but it is not the same if we have 25 amendments, which are messy, coming or maybe we have three or four just additional ones. I would suggest that we wait at least half an hour for what is at present to be presented in a review to be followed by Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u54	I think your proposal is justified. You're the one who's on the 21st page. The amendment of the SLS Group of Members. You do not yet have a Member, so this second amendment to the 21st Article of the LDS, the United List and the DeSUS. Although it is a short article and a short amendment, there are explanations and so on. Besides, it's possible that someone else has invested at this time, and we don't know that right now. That is why I would suggest or simply decide not to interrupt after an unnecessary discussion to start work at 12.30. During this time, all materials will be multiplied, sufficient time for amendments and perhaps for another obligation. We'll pick it up at 12.30.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u55	Dear Members, honourable Members, we are continuing our work. On the bench, we received a review of the amendments to the supplementary proposal of the Income Act, on the 10 pages. I am opening the debate first on Article 21 and the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the three coalition groups, the LDS MPs, the United List of Social Democrats and DeSUS and under the 2 amendments of the Slovenian People's Party MPs. Who wants a word? Mr. Kvticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. A respected minister with a team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! This is an amendment to Article 21 of the three groups of Members. In particular, this is a story that has been taking place since 1995, where the unions for the acquisition of energy raw materials in Slovenia, the Union of Disabled Persons in Slovenia and the activities of the disabled winner Velenje have led the activities to change the payment of income from disability compensation to disabled workers, but by 1.4. they have failed to convince them that they are entitled to the refund of their income for this part of the disability. 1.4 The Committee on Finance overlooked their efforts and, of course, accepted their efforts. Above all, it is an equalization of people with the same status, and I speak the same status. The proposal for the Income Act, where we are talking about the exemption of income, is set out in point 18 below: invalidity, disability allowance and special disability allowance under the War Invalids Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and compensation for disability under the Social Protection Act for mentally and physically disabled persons. Therefore, these persons are exempt from the disability allowance and we added to this "the compensation for disability received by working persons with other and third categories of disability under the law on pension and disability insurance". I am sure that this category of persons with disabilities is part of this exemption and therefore I propose that the amendments made by the three groups of Members should not be accepted and remain as it is. Above all, I speak again, so that before the law we are all the same, and if the law allows one category of disabled persons to have an exemption, then I believe that this category of disabled persons also belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, please. Then Mr. Kontic and then Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I'd like to explain the other amendment. In particular, the basic text of the Income Act provided that the income was to be forgiven for the prizes, for the winners of the medals at the Olympic Games. Then, two amendments were tabled on the parent board, and this extended to the world championships. The proposed amendment, however, rounds this problem around with achievements at the European championships. In top sports it is just that the medals, or if you want, competition at these three world events of forces are different and it is not as easy as at first sight that the greatest achievements at the Olympics and World Championships would seem to be. In a number of sports industries, competition in European championships is, if not greater, larger or at least comparable to Olympics and world championships. That is why I think it is fair and for a very small amount of such achievements achieved by our top athletes, it is appropriate that this facilitates recognition of the three highest rankings of the world's competitions. And I expect this amendment to be adopted, because, I think, so justly, it is correct and, of course, it would eventually eliminate the anomaly that has already been recorded in the basic text and then the amendments on the committee have not been properly corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is somehow self-evident that I will object to the amendment tabled under Article 1 to 21 already because I was first signed under the amendment adopted on the working body. Although this is, in my opinion, a systemic error that might be better or even needed to be resolved in another law, not in this income law. However, in view of the experience we have in recent years and the way in which we also communicate with the Ministry of Finance, where I drew attention to the difficulty that will arise in accepting the income, I also asked a written question because the Minister was not able to ask him an oral question, but to my appeal that agreements with the disabled should be continued, I did not get an answer. Since it has not been possible for all these years since 1995 to adopt an agreement or a systemic solution, this amendment has happened. This amendment has been supported by the parent labour body and is now an integral part of the Income Act, the amended proposal. In this regard, it explained significantly by working persons with disabilities that this is not a compensation for part-time work because they are not tied to working hours, they are also received by working persons with disabilities who are registered as job seekers and disabled persons during professional rehabilitation. However, a key systemic error in this is that the income received from a disabled person is divided into two parts and one is obtained in the company where he is employed for as many hours as he is working, and the other part is obtained from the pension and disability insurance institution. The part remaining with the employer is gross and the income is also charged. However, that part, which is on the ZPIZ, is then in net amount, is not converted into gross and there is no accrued income, and this means that this sum is eventually, when the taxable person makes a tax return, added and, of course, raised in this scale to a higher class, which sometimes means that he loses two to three disability benefits. As I said at the outset, I think we should resolve this in another law, but in fact it has not been done so far and that is why my support for disabled workers has not been done.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u61	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u62	I will not support this amendment because it discriminates. Yesterday we discussed Article 14 how we will then implement the operational provisions. And the arrivals of an amendment that excludes disability compensation, but we have other supplements that are included in this context and constitute exemptions. See, it is also important to ask what nature is and what its purpose is. The purpose of these funds is to make a higher cost of life or to compensate for something they cannot do, which is their handicap, a contribution from this mutual fund to cover it. This is it, and that is why this amendment is contrary to the basic intent of Article 14 of the Constitution that we adopted yesterday. That's right, dear colleagues, as I said yesterday. When laws are dealt with, then we deal with discrimination, not in the context of parole, but in the principles in the constitution that mean nothing, but in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Madam Secretary of State. Mrs. Milojka Kolar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u64	I would like to point out that the Government supports the proposed amendments tabled by the three parliamentary signed groups. However, the reasons for the content are as follows. I think that most of the previous debaters have misinterpreted what this is actually a substitute for disability. This is a compensation which essentially has the nature of the income from work, and this is taxed in terms of this principle and the approach of the law as well as all other income from work or from all other employees. This is essentially a compensation for part of the disability that someone who can no longer perform a specific job will receive this compensation for four hours. In accepting that this is forgiven, we would put the other debtors in a discriminatory position, and in this analysis and logic, all pensions would also be exempt, as they would also say, the pension result of some past work or relationship of the employment contract. We have repeatedly talked to this group of people with disabilities, negotiated and also sought solutions in the draft law, because there has been a problem that, given that two payers of these incomes, this is the right employer for the pay and in one part of the ZPIZ, this is a real disability and pension insurance institution that pays this compensation, and in fact, according to current practice, it has not generally been taxed on income. Therefore, these people received relatively high allowances in the final decisions on income accounting, of course, when both incomes were calculated. And this was for this population, of course, when it was given a decision in 31 days, it had to settle these payments for the reason that one part of this income was not paid an advance on income. In our proposal, we are therefore proposing essentially a solution that gives two elements to solve this problem, to put this population in an equal position. Firstly, they are given the opportunity to decide for themselves and choose the payment of the income advance, even up to this amount of compensation, i.e. they have the option of making this choice from 16 to 25% of the deposit. At the same time, as with all pensioners, since we have a net pension system and also these net benefits, an additional 14.5% facilitates. On the basis of these proposals, they show calculations that were made on the basis of their data, so that they will also be in a slightly better position, says they will receive some more net receipts available. This, of course, means for this part of the population a substantial part of the net remuneration available. At the same time, this means a 5.4 billion budget outage, or otherwise 15% of the work you have adopted in the law on the income of legal persons. And, of course, a very privileged, unequal position for the other debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Bevek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I will not support the amendment under item 2, because in the basic proposal of the law only the money prizes from the Olympic Games, from the achievements, then we have an additional world championship in the amended proposal, now the amendment adds European championships and this can go on indefinitely to the last local league. But I wonder if we could make an excuse in marriage if someone wins the Nobel Prize or the Pulitzer Prize, so it can be dragged on forever. I don't think there's any point in supporting such amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u68	Colleague Bevk: The Pulitzer prizes belong elsewhere; I would agree that they would also be forgiven. To compare medals in the European championship with some local leagues, however, it is said to be undignified and only points to a lack of knowledge of the sport problem, because in a number of sports disciplines competition in the European Championships is significantly greater than in the Olympics or in the world championships. I will use a very inappropriate word: you know, in the Olympics, as well as in the world championships, there are also some exotic teams present, but not at Europeans as a rule. What does the relationship between society and the state look like to the highest achievement in collective sports? Two months is an old medal, of course, and for this medal there will be no rewards, even if you accept this amendment, no reliefs or omissions, but it is already an oversight if taxes have been paid; but two months have not passed, so that silver could not be lost in the glow at all. That's our honest relationship. However, those who should be the first to care for this or the first two, and the department of the Olympic Committees, have done nothing in this procedure of law. The Olympic Committee has even proposed a rating for the use of cars for personal purposes, which is not for athletes, and has been summarised even in the amendment, but in particular for officials. This is an honest attitude towards the achievements of top athletes!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I just want to object to what my colleague Trofenik said. In this proposal, it was not a matter of functionaries, nor of officials, nor of any kind, but of athletes and exclusively of this kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajuk, please, then Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u72	Comrade Kremjar, then you don't know what use is for private purposes, because a top athlete certainly doesn't use it, or very unlikely, for private purposes, if his personal car is given to him for use as a reward. But it would be good to have a look at who's driving these cars next to an athlete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajuk, then Mr. Kremjar. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Madam President, but I'm going back to the first amendment, if you don't mind. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u75	Both amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u76	Both in the debate. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] two discussions at the same time to make it better to focus on one another or the other. [[...]] Otherwise, I'll tell you what I think. We have just heard an explanation from the Secretary of State on behalf of the Government why the government has decided and supports this amendment, which has been proposed by the Liberal Democracy Group and by DeSUS. Ms State Secretary mentioned in an analysis based on the data of the representatives of the disabled society themselves, which we listened to and also listened to at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, that there should be some analysis. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the only place with the power to decide what our tax system will be is the National Assembly. In principle, I cannot agree with any of the things that are argued to be some analyses that the National Assembly does not know. It is totally unacceptable that in practice our democratic system functions as a kind of corporateism, where executive authorities and certain officials meet with representatives of such and different convictions of purely legitimate interests, but that this is happening. Without talking, I don't mind people talking about the government talking to such a different society, but there are certain analyses and views that are based on this, that these analyses are not known to the National Assembly, that we don't have them here today on the bench or at least a month earlier, so that we can study and decide with responsibility, but it's unacceptable. I propose that the amendment to this Article 21 concerning the 18th point should postpone the consideration of this amendment by the National Assembly and that we should get to the bottom of this analysis referred to by the Secretary of State. And I will continue to speak today in the sense that it is irresponsible on our part if we decide on things and do not have or do not fully know the analysis that the government has been preparing and the negotiations it has had with certain groups. This is essentially unacceptable. I therefore propose that this amendment be postponed for the government to present to this national assembly today and immediately to this analysis and that we then make a responsible decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u77	Thank you very much. In the following order, as you have raised your hands, you will be given the word Mr Drobnic, Mr Jakič, then Mr Kebrič and Mr Grošelj. Mr Kremjar, who wanted a word earlier, is not, so I invite you to the word of Mr Drobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u78	I would like to ask you, Mr President, whether you have examined this amendment in the light of the new pension and disability legislation when it comes to redefined category II. and III. categories of disability. What these additives mean in case II. and III. categories under the new law, where they have a character, what I mentioned earlier, rather than in some sense disability and what relates to his working age or insurance payments. It's not cleared and you can't just explain it. That's it, you don't have the right data, you don't come from the right things, and you're going to create inequality, an unequal principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u79	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Jakić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would like to discuss the second amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party and defended by my colleague Trofenik. I will support this amendment. I will support this amendment because, given that I come from athletics, I know what it means for an athlete or a sportsman or a collective sport, a prize. And since I know what the sums of this prize are, they move from a gold medal to a haystack, from 800,000 down or 500,000 down. And because Article 33 states that it is money prizes, winning medals in the Olympic Games, world championships and now, what Comrade Trofenik has proposed is European championships, which is very important to me, which is being paid out of the budget in accordance with the rules governing the criteria for the implementation of the annual sport programme at state level and from this point on, it is also a guarantee that these are, of course, sports and sports disciplines that are essentially in the context of Olympic sports. Therefore, I think it is right that, of course, we also allow the winners of the medals at the European championships the possibility of being presented in Article 21(3). I fully agree with my colleague Trofenic, who says that, of course, some European championships are much stronger and better if you want, and better quality than the world championships in any of the disciplines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, Mr Minister with colleagues and colleagues! For those who are athletes today or who have been athletes in their lives, the following question is essential. The Olympics were an amateur sport and a medal, won, represented something in terms of recognition of achievements. Now the sport has been professionalized, and everything is more or less in the lower leagues, if I repeat my colleague Trophynik, there is no longer a sportsman who would not have received anything materially. Other sportsmen who work for sport, for their health, do not look at money, but even pay for being able to engage in sports, recreation in a second word. The Olympic Games are the highest recognition and, in an amateur sense, as far as possible, amateurism has survived today. However, the European and World Cup is already competing who will reward more than one person to receive the organisation of these or other competitions. So I don't think it's entirely right to compare each other. The Olympics, I repeat, and I conclude, are that amateur aspect of some recognition. If we have professionalised the matter, I agree that there are "less" in the Olympics under the title, to some extent quality teams, I come to the European and world championships more. But why more? For the money. Because of the money they receive at a time when they train, because these people, or these athletes and athletes, compete in such and other pools just for money. None of them cultivate high-quality sport because of health, because the highest level of high-quality sport is harmful to health. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I will discuss the first amendment to Article 21. I hope, Mr Bayuk, that we were both at the same meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Let me say, of course, what is apparent from the review, once again, that this was submitted by a group of Members with Mr Kontic, the first-signed, that this was not a coalition amendment, and that Mr Viszak's question was also answered by the Minister, that of course this means a 5.4 billion tolar out of the budget. As a result, a coalition amendment has also been tabled which seeks to regulate these matters differently. I am, of course, still firmly convinced that this is a systemic error, but this systemic error will have to be regulated under other legal provisions which also regulate these matters. Information on the loss of income was provided at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, then Mr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would only comment on this amendment so much that obviously the parties now proposing the deletion of this already adopted amendment on the Committee are not concerned with the content of the amendment, the financial implications are important and, for this purpose, this is also deleted, irrespective of whether the proposed solution adequately addresses the area, the priority financial implications are, therefore, the motive now, if I understand correctly, of this amendment, to delete what has been adopted on the Committee from the table. I think it's kind of unacceptable. It's bad. That's what they say. We only watch for money and no content. According to the disabled, I mean, mostly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u88	To Mr. Vissiak, that's all I'd say is that he probably overheard my last words. It's not about that, but it's about a systemic error, but it's not about regulation through the income law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, I remember and did not object to the fact that the government, at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, in fact, forwarded this information to the effect that this would have certain greater effects, as far as income is concerned. However, we are not discussing the consequences, of course we must always take them into account, but, above all, what will be the decision of this national assembly on this particular issue. I must say that at this meeting I was convinced that the position represented by the representatives of this society seemed to me to be in place, so I also supported and opposed this amendment. However, I would just like to insist, for a responsible decision, that the government should provide us with what Mrs State Secretary has just said that there is an analysis in which it would also prove that these people will be even better after the government proposal, if I understand correctly, slightly better, so I understood Mrs State Secretary. I would like to have this argument in writing, so I am procedurally suggesting that the government is presenting this to us today. If this exists, we can get this and postpone the final decision on these amendments to Article 21 and go to the other amendments. We have enough work to do because there are just over 150 members of this law. A lot of amendments have been tabled. I suggest the government provides us with this information. I find it irresponsible that they exist only on the basis of income losses, but I find it pointless because, at the same time, when the opposition proposes to increase certain funds for our budget, if most people are not prepared to tax certain resources, such as capital gains, we will talk about this for sure today. However, I cannot accept the credibility of the argument that we need to support something just because it will be a failure. At the same time, you are not prepared to vote where funds could be increased. It is primarily about credibility and the seriousness of the work of this national assembly. I ask that you put this proposal to the vote and that the government should provide an analysis. I'm willing to listen to and evaluate every single thing. But I can't just say the words that are supposed to mean something, and then it turns out that's not the case. Please put this to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Bajuk, you may request, in accordance with Article 73, that the National Assembly decide, but I still owe you an explanation before I put this to the vote, to explain that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not obliged to provide any analysis that leads to certain professional justifications given here. Of course, it's a matter of government, whether it presents it or not. Mr. Bajuk, I will put to the vote this proposal of yours. This explains that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it can be either way or otherwise and cannot force the Government to submit any paper leading to a decision to the government. That's it. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of Mr Bayuk [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u92	Can the National Assembly ask or not? [[...]] I didn't ask for all the papers. I am well aware that the Minister of Finance has already stated publicly that five years have been working on this. I'm sure there's a whole truck of papers. I did not require all the papers, but only some analysis presented here as an argument by the government in support of the amendment tabled by colleagues. That's all. So I don't accept your sermon. However, I have the right to request this under the Rules of Procedure, so again I ask you to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u93	Mr. Bajuk, I'm sorry! You've taken the floor all by yourself. I was so polite and right that I didn't take it from you because you took it from me. And if this is the practice in this House, it's just gonna be bad. I am putting to the vote the procedural proposal of Mr Bayuk that we stop the consideration of the amendments and the 21st Article until the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provides us with analyses. [[Back-up advertising.]] The analyses we have been discussing and supporting the findings under these amendments. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I think I've clearly summarized your procedural proposal. Would you like to complete your procedural proposal? Don't explain, tell me exactly what you want. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Madam President, I did not suggest that they present us with all the analyses. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u95	Yeah, to that point. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u96	No, no, no. I have said very concretely, not once, but twice that I would like to see - and this is my proposal - that the government submits those analyses mentioned by the Secretary of State, but not all the analyses - not all of them, only those mentioned by the Secretary of State on behalf of the Government in support of the amendment proposal. Just that, not all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u97	Thank you very much. And that's exactly what I said, Mr. Bajuk. I'm putting to the vote Dr. Bayuk's procedural proposal. We're voting! There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not received adequate support. To the word of Mr. Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I would like to rephrase the honourable colleague Mr Kebrich with regard to the second amendment. Mr. Kebrich, the times of amateurism at the Olympics are long past. It is no longer the days of Karl Schranz in Sapora and similar incidents that were. Today, the Olympics continue to perform, win a kilo of gold for the prize, whether members of the richest or most expensive hockey league in the world and so on. Thus, your arguments in this regard that the Olympic medal is more noble because of amateurism, it was possible once in history and not for a long time today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I must say that I will support the two amendments, the first being the explanation of the amendment tabled by the coalition. I'd like to mention this to the other one. That this is actually the cheapest propaganda, the recognition of our country abroad through the collages, through athletes. I think that we need to be aware that even now with the entry into the European Union it is right and if you are looking at the analysis of how badly some countries know us, I think it is in order to say hello if our athletes achieve results and collagen and we leave them with that tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u102	A brief replica of the esteemed colleague Trophynik. You didn't listen to me very well. It's not more flattering because of amateurism. My emphasis was on the fact that the awards at the Olympics are significantly lower than European and global. For that reason, I said I would not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment in relation to the European Championships because I think it is right to do so and to align it in some way with the above mentioned or the basic text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment for similar reasons. I believe that sport is actually a very important factor in the promotion of the country and I think we have done a lot in this area and it is sport that has actually made us for the country we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u108	If you allow me, I give the Slovenian People's Party's amendment, with full respect for all games, Olympics, worlds and Europeans, a thought to the fact that we have a series of European championships and, of course, medal winners who are not Olympic sports. This means that we are expanding this category, while in the Olympics we have precisely defined sports industries that belong there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Nobody wants a word anymore? Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u110	I asked the government a question. Of course, the government has a free decision to answer or not, but at least it can reply that it will not respond. Therefore, on the specific question whether they examined how the second and third categories of disabled persons were compensated. One contains a pension, the other includes wages. And now you're throwing it all in the same basket. Pensions don't tax, they pay yes. That's why this amendment isn't right. If you wanted to eliminate something that has a wage function, then you should write it differently, or a ruling coalition, because I don't know whether you wrote it or are here in this circle, or in that part or in that part. But it would be for the sake of purity, Mr. Minister, to consider that you are then consistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavtičnik, then Mrs. Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to respond to a colleague from the United Nations Group. The prizes for winning the medal at the Olympic Games and World Championships would be added here to the European Championships, which are paid from the budget in accordance with the rules governing the criteria for the implementation of the annual national sport programme. This is about the criteria of Olympic sports, so there is no fear that they would be further rewarded for neo-Olympic sports. In general, there is no fear of such a rush of Olympics or European winners or medals. If that's what we're afraid of, it's not good for us. Well, it doesn't say "fear." It says "fear." Do not be afraid, let us do something for the athletes, because they promote us, while at the same time allowing young people to do as much sport as possible, and that they will not be so much on the street that we will not then give money for other programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs. Kolarje to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u114	Thank you. I would like to explain what honourable Member Petty Officer asked. The draft law takes into account all the definitions and standards laid down by the Disability Pension Insurance Act. Since, of course, the terms themselves for individual compensations concerning the issues under consideration have partly changed, I am talking about the expression itself. This is why we are talking about new disability and disability allowances, both of which are included in the proposal for an income law as an exemption because these are categories for, I will say, that compensation for really real disability. Disability compensation, as is now the subject of the current Pension and Disability Insurance Act, has been named before this amendment as compensation for salary, because someone has been transferred due to certain disabilities either to a lower job, which has been paid less, and therefore receives this compensation for disability, which, by its content and nature, has still compensated wages, income from employment and wages. As a result, this compensation also has the same treatment, given that it is paid at a net amount similar to that of pensions, so, as I have said in the introduction, it also has the same solution as that of pensions in this part. I mean 14.5% extra relief. Most of the time, you mentioned only this loss, but I would like to stress once again what I said in the introduction is that it is discrimination against taxpayers and incomes. Someone who's busy and doing his job would also be taxed from that height, whatever the name is. Let me mention, well, perhaps the term analysis, but the calculations that were made on the basis of the actual data that this society presented to us, have been found to mean that these solutions mean that these people are in fact not deprived or net remuneration, they have been seized by law if this proposed amendment is adopted, even slightly better than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I think we can close the debate. I therefore conclude the debate on both amendments to Article 21. [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr. Bajuk, I've closed the debate. Really, I always look all over the place and then I close the debate. We will first vote on the amendment under order number 1 to 21. This is the amendment of the three coalition groups. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 41 votes against 17. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the amendment under order number 2 of the SLS Group. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 57 votes against 3. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 72 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Merl. Anybody want a word? Mr. Merlo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In the European Union, the main policy of the countries is to promote long-term life insurance, and in this context, I also think that our budget would not be much less if we supported this amendment. This is only for immediate family members in order to ensure greater financial security, as well as this security for entire families in insurance, since insurance is a way to avoid the cost of the event being insured. That is why I do not think that there should be any major opposition from the government regarding the approximation of our country to trends in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kolar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u118	The Government opposes this amendment for the following reasons. We support the exemption from the payment of income in cases referred to in this Article of the amended proposal for a law when it comes to the conclusion of life insurance for long-term insurance, because we want to promote long-term savings, but under the condition that the consignor and the insured are the same person as the person concerned, that is to say, exemption is granted for that natural person who decides and is also entitled to the insurance policy. If these exemptions were accepted and extended to family members, they would create significant inequalities between individual long-term forms of savings. For example, compared to the long-term deposit agreement with banks. Because we cannot count as being exempt from interest when this deposit contract is concluded on behalf of a family member. For these two reasons, in terms of inequality, inequality in taxation with other types of long-term investment and in the light of the extension of these exemptions to someone, given that the exemptions relate to the taxable person under the Income Act, we object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u119	Thank you very much. As no one wants to say another word, the debate is closed and we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members to Article 72. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 12 votes against 37. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 82 and the two amendments. Under one is the amendment of the coalition's sent groups and under two SLS members, noting that you also have an amendment under order number 1, in the last part. This is an amendment to the three coalition groups with a footnote - please pay attention - if the amendment under order number 1 is accepted, it will become an amendment under 2 irrelevant. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. I invite Mr Puck to the floor, then Mr Podobnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will discuss the amendment under number 1 to specify whether to include uncut profits in the relevant indent of number 1. I believe that through this amendment we are improving the basic text, empowering the Minister of Finance to calculate the shares of asset growth and thereby neutralising income from mutual funds. This is also against the destimulation of those who have investment coupons to start selling. It is said that the adoption of this amendment to Article 82 is essentially an incentive for savings in mutual funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I ask kindly on behalf of all those who report to the word and speak for the peace needed in the hall, because I think everyone has a problem. So I'm really asking that we provide them with the peace that the debaters must have. I invite Mr. Sponik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! This Article refers to income from mutual funds. The fact is that mutual funds on the Slovenian capital market are becoming a very important financial institution and increasingly attractive to the Slovenian population, which is right. And it is precisely the law on income that is very important to support and stimulate people to save in this way. I would also like to say here that we, as a government party in the framework of coalition coordination, proposed some of the solutions that have already come into the first text of the law. First, it was suggested that all the investment vouchers were actually in the same jacket and that no dividends were taken into account, no profit interest was taken into account, and then it was well resolved when we went to divorce on these individual components. It is true, though, that we may have been too careful at the time that mutual funds have two types of capital gains. Since the practice of the operation of mutual funds in Slovenia is relatively short, for a good ten years, we therefore have two types of profits. One is the one that is actually being realised on the market if the stock of securities from its portfolio sells at a higher price than it bought. And it's called real or broken profits. Those that are not being realised on the market, for example - and this is happening - the fund holds securities in its portfolio and does not sell them, but their market value increases due to rising market prices and the value of the fund increases - this is called professionally unrealised or untapped profits. According to our data, the last, uncollected profits currently prevail in the current situation. The bets, and that's right, hold up a lot of the investment that's going up, and they don't sell it. And it could actually have happened if there had not been a change, we have proposed a minimal change to add the words 'and not torn out' only for the word 'exhausted'. Then the colleagues proposed a broader solution, if I understood you correctly, if the first amendment is adopted, the second is irrelevant, here only a question is asked and it is crucial. I will also support the amendment under point 1, because it is more comprehensive, as the Minister will prescribe. This is the most important, even professionally, or non-procedurally. How the Minister responsible for finance will prescribe a way of calculating the share of growth in the value of the mutual fund referred to in Article 83, paragraph 6, of this Law. Unfortunately, since this article is not open, you probably wrote it that way, otherwise the law would be inconsistent and that is why this dictatorship. That's all. Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Because Mr. Secretary doesn't want you to. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u124	The government supports this amendment. In fact, as has already been said, this amendment allows for more comparable taxation of mutual funds, a mutual fund coupon and a direct deposit into securities. Of course, there are a lot of problems in how to ensure that. The previous diction had a certain problem because it was based on what the incomes of the mutual fund were. The revenues of the mutual fund are, in fact, dividends, interest and capital gains. In fact, when someone sells a unit of property, a coupon of mutual funds, they also realize what unrealised capital gains are. It is more appropriate that they also be taken into account when the difference in the value of the coupon has been distributed since we bought it and when we sell it, the interest on dividends and capital gains, and by this regulation of the Minister of Finance, we will try to determine as precisely as possible what this amount of unrealised capital gains is and thus ensure the equality of taxation. Even mutual funds may be slightly less taxed because interest and dividends will not be paid from the outside, but only when the coupon is sold. So there's going to be an extra one here, otherwise minimal in terms of the time value of money, stimulation. That's why we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I can conclude the debate now. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 1. If adopted, the amendment under 2 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the amendment under 1 has been adopted, so the amendment under 2 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to the debate on Article 87 and the three amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, under 2 members of the New Slovenia Group and under 3 members of the coalition with a footnote, if the amendment under order number 1 is adopted, the amendments under points 2 and 3 become irrelevant. First, I invite Mr Bajuk, then Mr Visionak. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. We're at chapter five of this law, profit from capital. In fact, it is very difficult to speak only of Article 87, since, finally, Article 87 is no different than the definition of what capital is for this law. Then, in article 91, how to tax myself. What remains of this is, of course, Article 143 of the so-called transitional provisions. A better understanding of this requires a return to the original government proposal. The original government proposal in the first paragraph, which has 3 points, indicates what the real estate capital is under certain conditions and includes a major equity share or part thereof and then securities and shares in companies, cooperatives and other forms of organisation. So definition, what is capital? The biggest problem that we have had since the beginning of this debate has been precisely with the concept of the bulk share, because that would mean that what is not the bulk of the share is then not capital. Well, profit from something that's not capital can't tax anything. And what was the original government proposal? The government's initial proposal was that capital or this component is the largest share only of the share that is more than 10% of the total capital in a given company. This has proved to be completely irrelevant in our debates. If the government insisted on this proposal, it would be totally unacceptable for someone with a 10% or a little less than 10% stake in a small company to pay taxes nicely. For example, for a concrete example, which I also mentioned in our debates, in a large company where only 1% would have a nominal share, for example, 1000 million SIT, and the owner of this [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the capital profit would not have paid any tax because it is only 1%. [[...]] Persisting on the concept or using percentages to define this concept is totally unacceptable. The case was very clear. Even if on the basis of data, if someone had only 1% of the stake in Mercator, they wouldn't pay anything because that would be less than the bulk. One gentleman, who has a ten percent stake in one small company, would pay a lot. So it's a completely unprofessional approach. It doesn't make any sense, and it can't be supported. This may have been the reason that the Liberal Democracy Club had somehow changed this at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. He changed the gap only to the extent, not to the concept itself. They did not change the concept, but they proposed - and this is this amendment, which was then adopted by the majority on the Committee on Finance - which is supposed to be only 10%. I would like to point out that even if it were only 1 to bring us back to a position that is totally unacceptable. As we wrote in our explanation, this would create inequality. And this equality between certain debtors is this particular case that I am referring to here. The owner1% of the shareholding or nominally 3 million tolars will, for example, pay capital gains of 1.5 million in capital at a rate of 50% or 750,000 in advance of the five years. On the other hand, we have an example that is not so out of the vine, a concrete example - I will not name it, but those who understand it will immediately know who it is. The owner of only 40% of one percent or nominally, for example, in 260 million tolars to a large company, which has 67 billion, would not have paid any tax in contrast to the sale of this share before the expiry of five years, say, 390 million SIT or with a capital gain of 130 million. This is so clear that it is completely pointless to insist on the concept of percentages because there are still such cases. And these are also concrete examples from our reality. So it's totally unacceptable. And today, the Slovenian government is proposing to us through the parliamentary groups a recast of this. A re-amendment, however, which distances itself from the concept of percentages, but goes to some capital height. And that should be 60 million capital, if I have now understood correctly. We still wonder why such a difference is made. Apparently, the government's first proposal 10% as a share of capital to become a major share and, it is said, also the subject of taxation, was written on the skin of certain people. Also, 1% is written on the skin of certain people. This proposal is also rewritten on the skin of people. Why do we stick to such proposals when, in fact, the law should not distinguish resources from a professional point of view, where certain profits come from, but focus on profits; regardless of whether the profits from a large company, a small business, a medium-sized enterprise, are still capital gains and as such should be taxed. Therefore, our amendment in Article 87 removes precisely these pointless starting points and focuses on what we have to tax. We have to tax the capital gains. Why would the government make a difference between one capital gain and another? The only difference that we recognise and propose when it becomes legal is that we also know that we also have small savers, which we do not need to always be taxed. This is a political decision, obviously a political decision, but it is not the same political decision on the basis of such and different companies, but a political decision on the basis of what capital gains are actually worth in one specific transaction. We propose that if the capital gains are long-term, it is said, realised after five years, from which this person became the owner, that if he is less than 10 million dollars, he does not pay the profits tax. Among other things, and I admit to you that I am prepared to defend such a proposal, because it seems to me that it is important for us to do something for small shareholders in our country once, because we have deliberately and deliberately carried them around in this decade around. There was not enough control to enforce what is stated in the law that small shareholders should also be protected from the various things that are happening. So what does New Slovenia propose? We propose a very clear concept of capital, this is our amendment to Article 87, where we eliminate any concept and any difference between such capital and other capital. If the capital gains were actually realised, it must be taxed. How can he be taxed? This is then provided for in Article 91. Capital gains must also be taxed on the basis of the experience they have elsewhere in the world. As you know, different approaches remain between the OECD countries. You have the same levels, no matter when this is realized, no matter what period. Then there are countries that have differences in taxation with a higher rate of short-term capital gains, i.e. those that are created over a period of one year, and with a lower rate of those that are realized in the long term. We propose in Article 91 that the profits realised in one year should be taxed, but at a lower rate than the government actually proposes. This may seem strange to you, but the government in this proposal also introduces some amendment to the law now in force, if that is clear to all, if I am not mistaken, the current article 61 of the Income Act has a rate of 30%. Since this is no longer in this proposal, in fact, if someone is at the highest level, they will pay 50%. We'd like to keep that 30%. We believe that 50% of taxes are also high for short-terms. For a period between one year and five years, we propose that the final tax be 25%. For long-term, it is said, those capital gains that actually occur after five years, after five years, from which this person became either a shareholder or owner of a certain share to tax it with a 20% rate, without any difference. The only difference we are introducing is that the long-term capital gains realised over a period of five years are taxed only if there are more than 10 million. However, if it is less than 10 million, we are prepared, and this is our proposal that the National Assembly decide that these people, small shareholders or those who are not actually playing hard on our capital market should not be taxed. All of this is related to Article 143. No matter what the government proposes in Article 87 or Article 91, it shall delete, as I have already mentioned, Article 143. Now the last proposal, one that gives up the percentage and introduces a new concept to tax only those capital gains in companies that have more than 60 million capital. Furthermore, the last proposal of Article 143 does not change, and then everything is actually lost. He's actually lost. If we have such preliminary articles as this one proposed, then we will only give the legal basis that those who have made a fortune in this decade to have by the end of the year, by the end of 2004, an extraordinary opportunity to make things work out quickly. You know, it's not random. So far, we've read and read in newspapers how fast certain gentlemen can sell or buy. Why? As they knew what the proposal would be, they had already learned, the market would quickly learn. Although newspapers do not write, they do not report in detail what is happening at the meetings of the Finance Committee. Those people who want to know about these things know, because they're finally public meetings. And the fact is, they're creating a great period for them to hurry quickly, and they've hidden things so that they can have fun since 1 January 2005. This proposal, which the government will certainly explain, or the members of the coalition that you tabled when you explain your last proposal, is now a third version of how to tax capital, but I would like to point out that it is coming again, as if it were twisted from the vine. Why 60 million? Why would we choose 60? Why not 100 or 50? In fact, this National Assembly does not have any analysis, with some form of capital structure in Slovenia. We don't know when you're going to vote, who you're going to tax and who you're not. Or you believe that this vital feature that has been evident so far will only be maintained. Here too, a responsible decision by the National Assembly would require that the government or the proposers actually provide us with a concrete and detailed analysis of how many companies will actually be taxed and how many not. If you don't have it in your hands, then I'll say in advance that this is an irresponsible decision. Therefore, it is much smarter for the National Assembly to decide on the New Slovenia proposal, because it is finally a proposal that has eliminated all these crazy concepts and non-professional concepts of major interests. It is based on a very clear principle: capital gains must be taxed at three different rates, and that a small investor is defended in this sense that if capital gains are a long-term profit after five years and are less than 10 million years, then it is forgiven. It's much smarter than that. It's not written on anyone's skin. But your suggestions, I'm afraid, the one so far, the first one the government has adopted, when there was still a large coalition, a little bit bigger than today, the second one presented on the Finance Committee, and now the third one, and everyone has a common feature: they are written on the skin of certain people. Let's find out which ones you want to protect and which ones you don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr. Visiank, then Mr. Drobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u128	Thank you very much. In this article, let me start by saying that this concept, this boat and this minister's announcement to burden capital on one side and, on the other hand, to unload the work and that it is a binder, where something goes in and just so goes out. A number of amendments and amendments to the Income Act have already been adopted, some even supported by the minister, which means that this bonded container will not be what it was originally intended to be. That is why it is difficult to talk about some first stage of tax reform. At the same time, I would like to say that this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party as well as the amendment of the New Slovenia coalition partner is directed towards this objective. This is said to in some ways only burden the capital and the definition, respectively, of Article 87 of the Law, which defines what is taxable capital, not what capital is, what is capital, what is that capital that is also subject to income under this Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the amendment therefore sums up the solution that the government has proposed and which has not been the subject of so much discussion on real estate. However, we strongly oppose the introduction of this so-called bulk share, because we do not know what and what the Ministry was motivated to define as the bulk of the share, which, according to the new one, is, of course, a taxable share of up to 10% or more than 10% in companies, but all that is less is not subject to taxation. This has not been explained on the Committee and, of course, then there is some conclusion that shareholders in large companies with large capital are, of course, less than 10% somehow exempted from the taxation of profits on capital. In the meantime, those smaller companies created by individuals, either with their knowledge, abilities, effort, work and, of course, are also important owners of these companies, these companies have grown, they have done something, but now, if they want to sell or sell the company, or sell it, or do anything else, and, of course, they will recover from it the taxed ones, of course, the smaller ones, under the terms, in percentages, and in absolute values of capital, the substantially larger owners, but not. This is completely illogical, it is not stimulating for the development of small entrepreneurship, craftsmanship, a small economy at all, which should be and should be a generator of economic development, because when they do, of course, sell or take away capital, they will pay income while others do not. That is why, of course, in the proposed amendment, we end this term of the dominant owner at all. I think he's completely unnecessary. The basic idea of the government in Article 87 was also that capital gains were taxed if they passed during the acquisition and removal of less than three years and, of course, they were not taxed if it took longer. Of course, we do not see any actual implementation, the government's intention to tax capital. We have a whole bunch of transition rich people, if they sell their shares, they won't pay a tolar tax or anything, which is wrong. If it's an honest intention, then of course we'll tax the capital. Therefore, in the proposed amendment, we propose that all those who, irrespective of the time between removal and acquisition, will survive and profit more than 10 million will pay the corresponding income. So it's said, some estimated limit of 10 million is the one that, we think, is really an extra profit. And it is right if the state intends to tax capital to those people at some tax rate, to propose an effective 15% tax rate, and we also tax that capital. This tax won't hit little long-term savers because they won't make 10 million profits. I'm talking about profit, that's the difference between the value when it's subtracted by the value when it's acquired. I believe that this solution will benefit mainly from extreme profits and it is right to pay the tax to the State if the State so wishes; but if the State does not wish to do so, it should not tell us that it wants to tax capital and burden work. This is also the basic meaning of this amendment, which, last but not least, also brings some sustainable budget and is not an amendment that we hear many times from the ruling, czech, the opposition proposes only likes, those amendments that only give, and not those that bring. This amendment is one that brings something. Taking into account the amendments to the 143rd Article, which deals with the application of this Article, this amendment will also cover the transition rich, and it is the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u129	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u130	The predecessors have already raised the question of what exactly is the structure of those who are obliged to pay the capital tax. This is very important. I don't know if the government has studied this. When I looked at this picture from the cover, where the smiling faces of Forum 21 are collected, I can actually track down exactly those owners who will avoid paying the tax. Most of these do not have a share of up to 10%, but are the strongest or most powerful people in Slovenia. That's what we're talking about. And these people say, "The most powerful Slovenians are supposed to fight for a social and social justice state." You're working against it! They explain that they will fight for a socially just state, and you will even go against it. Unless, of course, if it's another message, it's a lie that they're hiding behind it. Because if they want this to be a social justice state, then you have to tax them the same way as other citizens. Previously, you said that you would save on disability compensation 4.5 billion - the transit capital is about 400 billion, that is to quickly raise capital in Slovenia. These are the tycoons who got rich quickly. And this international expert, Štiglic, said and recommended to the transition countries where some rich people quickly went up to introduce a special tax, a transitional tax. And if you had at least introduced a normal tax, not a transition tax, one that comes on the basis of fairness, that everyone pays a tax, not just the weak and those who have nothing pay, but the same as everyone else, then you would have 40 billion money, Mr. Minister, 400 billion is in the price and 10%, if you did, you would have 40 billion money in the budget. There's a tax to be paid there. That is why your concept is wrong and does a complete dispersion not on a just basis. That's what we're talking about in this amendment, not numbers. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Bajuk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would just like to add one more question for the representatives of the government, specifically to say to the Minister. I'd like to know, we've heard it today, not once, but twice as much as the downfalls or acquisitions, such and other amendments. I think that this National Assembly should know what the intended effects of Article 87(1) have been, which the Government has already abandoned if it has agreed to the amendment adopted by the Committee on Finance and on a proposal by the Liberal Democracy. I'd like to know what he's like, and then I'd be out. The piece just went from 10% of the concept of the capital ratio to one percent. And what it is now, in this proposal, is a failure. The effects, responsibility and irresponsibility of such and other proponents are discussed. I would like to know what the government predicted with the first version, what it predicted in the second version and what it envisions now in the third. And not just that. If it was not clear in my first presentation, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether it is known and where it was published or even published by the Ministry of Finance or whether the government knows the distribution or distribution of shareholders and shares in medium-sized and large enterprises or what the criteria were for these proposed 60 million solutions. Is this where it's posted, or can we have it? Why 60 million? You know the distribution of why you decided 60 million. Without that, however, it would be irresponsible for this national assembly to take any decision on the basis of such differences between the debtors. Therefore, we insist on our proposal that capital gains should be taxed where they occurred, but only those who are small shareholders who are clearly not large players in the capital market and who we all know in this last decade have been defrauded by the Slovenian state, which has not been able to defend small shareholders and their interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, did you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u134	Thank you very much. With regard to the questions raised, I would like to answer the following, first of all to Mr Visiak. I have explained these things, I have explained things about why and what the logic of this 87th article has really explained for a very long time on the committee, which you will also be able to read from the minutes. The debate was very broad. And let me repeat in just a few words what logic was. If we had been, for example, for a long time since the first beginning of the transition and had a normal situation in the capital market, then such a proposal as in Article 87 would not have been drafted by the government. But I would come up with a proposal where, like, in most mature economies for a given period, capital gains would be taxed more than that short period, that is, one to three years have individual countries, when, say, they try to disstimulate speculation and from this period taxed less, with, say, a half scale or some kind of cascade, which was also shown in one of these proposals. However, this is a normal situation, then there are no special reliefs or special burdens on individual groups. We followed logic, perhaps at the time you were not on the committee when I explained it, followed the logic that to a certain extent we take into account the proposal of this Nobel laureate Stiglica regarding the so-called transitional tax. We installed this in Article 87. Finding the right one, for example, is very difficult to modify, because the moment you introduce something, it hurts another area. And, of course, we wanted the capital market to be stimulated to continue to develop. So, how do we do this now so that you don't hurt the small businesses that we want to develop? How to cover essentially those incomes, which are incomes that, say, come from this transition. And this is where it went in several stages, and I must say that the government supports this proposal from LDS, the United List and DeSUS in several stages. The first phase of 10%, as mentioned by Mr Drobnic. Why 10%? This is because when we set a lower percentage, it is a problem to essentially cover all those who are real entrepreneurs who invest small businesses and actually have more than 10 percent equity, because you can own 100 percent of a small business or 50 percent, and of course you discourage the development of small businesses. The first was a lower limit, and then we looked for solutions, and how to exclude when you make a distortion on one end, of course you have to fix it on the other - how to capture more of this transition income. We went to one per cent, but at the same time we excluded companies with less than 200 million tolars of capital to exclude these small businesses. If you invest in a small company, it's a company that has less than 200 million capital, then you're not taxed on capital gains indefinitely, but you're taxed for three years. If you sell later, you're not taxed, as if you had a minority stake in medium-sized and large enterprises. However, this also has its drawbacks because we have set 1% and we have been looking for other solutions, given the debate that was very long on the committee. And we found this solution then 60 million; 60 million comes from an average of large companies, about 5 billion 400 million. If you take 1% out of this, 1% is about 54 million - we have the latest data for 2002. Taking into account inflation during this period or the growth of this capital, you'll come to about 60 million. This is said to be 1% of the share in the medium-sized company, and this is the limit that we found meaningful after all the analyses we've done to, let's say, capture those large shares in these companies. At the same time, to prevent the development of the capital market that we want to develop, it is said that all those that are smaller shares are a three-year period of taxation and then no, and at the same time exclude all those companies that are small and we want to stimulate them in particular. It's very complicated, once you start working essentially on this logic of Stiglič's proposal, you see that in practice there can be more side effects, and there can be negative side effects than there are positive ones. From here on out, this proposal that we support. But if I go to your proposals - they go in the same direction, I agree - but we have a problem, say, with the SDS proposal. You've tied not to capital, but you've tied to capital gains that have actually been achieved. Such a profit, if we look at it this way - if we compare it now with a proposal of 60 million capital, should create such a capital gain in some normal situation, when, say, profitability, I don't know 5-7%, and when so much and so much dividends are paid, let's say, 30.40%, should reach 10 million in about five years, because at 60 million 10 million capital gains is 16.7% profitability, it would take five years for such a return to be. So your proposal is about like a proposal that we support if someone sells within 10 years. However, the problem I see in your proposal is that when you see that this capital gains go up to 10 million, whoever has these shares will sell them and plan them taxfully. So he'll actually be able to avoid it while you're here looking at a five-year-old average. It is said that whenever there is more than 60 million in the past, and of course I agree with you, Mr Bayuk, that if this amendment is accepted, paragraph 143 needs to be corrected and paragraph 2 deleted - you are right. But if it is not accepted, it cannot be fixed, so much adjustment must be made because it already determines how the foundation is viewed. So from this point of view, I think we could avoid it more with yours than with that, which is why we don't support it. So much so now, I hope I answered the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u135	Thank you very much. First Mr. Bajuk, then Mr. Visjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! It is difficult for the person who has followed this debate to really understand what the government is up to. Suddenly, we hear that the driving force in all these proposals has been a focus on small entrepreneurship. What does this have to do with your original proposal? Nothing! This was written on the skin of certain people so that they would not pay any taxes. In particular, I have already given you an example of how some owner of 1% of Mercator's share, for example, if he sold, would not pay anything on the basis of your proposal - it has nothing to do with the small and medium economy. Also 1% has nothing to do with the small economy. I am also afraid that this proposal, which has found some average capital measure that is supposed to be 60 million, is not something similar. Actually, that's not what this is about. And why is it that the government insists on this concept that there is a need to make a difference where someone has created a capital gain? This is, from a professional point of view, the wrong approach. Capital gains are capital gains. Look, the old Romans said "pegunia non oleth", money doesn't smell or smell, money is money. Capital gains have been made. The only thing that matters is that we decide who we tax. That's the law on taxation of natural persons. That business thing's been over. Where were you with suggestions for a special approach to small entrepreneurship? He's not there, either. Why is he here all of a sudden? What's the difference? I insist that it is difficult to believe that this should be the objective that the government has pursued and is still pursuing, because you have had these options before, and you have not accepted any proposal as far as this is concerned. When we were taking initiatives to use the fiscal policy instrument for investments, for example, in certain places in Slovenia, the government was absolutely against - no, no, everything will collapse. So, where did this concept come from? In fact, Mr Minister, it is not enough that this is supposed to be an average - according to your last proposal, which you now support - the value of capital or the value of capital in an average company in Slovenia. Then why the average? This is the wrong approach. However, the approach is wrong because you cannot break away from this concept, that you want to make a difference where the capital gains are actually created. The concept of capital profit should be introduced. That capital gains can be subject to taxation in Slovenia, which has not been done so far, because we all know the data because you provided them yourself. In 2002, if I'm not wrong, if memory doesn't deceive me, 64 million dollars came from this cover in one year! And we know that this whole thing has been a joke until now because we deliberately didn't want to do it. And if we don't do it, then we're going to have these and different problems with one disabled person or another, III. Category, IV. category, whether left-hand or right-hand. Until Slovenia has decided and this government has decided to look for funds where they are, but not where they are, there is no need for any debate. You still insist on this concept, which we think is professionally wrong, you want to make a difference - where this is supposed to come from. But I don't have to explain it any other way, like it's back on some people's skin. And until I have such information that is available to you, how distribution is, how the shareholders are distributed and capital in Slovenian companies, then we cannot continue to debate at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I just want to say something to this minister's performance. See, a man in the opposition, or perhaps even a citizen, is expected when the government takes on the tax system and tax policy, to have a strategy and then to implement the legislation it proposes in the context of the text and articles. If we read the coalition contract of four parties, there was something written in this coalition contract about this strategy. It said that social transfers, rents, travails would be taxed. It also said that this three-year tax deadline would be reduced, as stated in the Coalition Treaty. We now have solutions that do not follow these contractual matters. More than that, I wouldn't talk about it if there wasn't more. What is referred to in the basic text of Article 87 for the first reading of the main ownership share was not possible to understand that this is a transitional tax because it spoke of a major ownership share, and I consider one and a half percent of Mercator's share, which is now owned by someone or, I don't know, in these large, huge companies with huge capital, may be a small share of a fortune. The proposed text of Article 87, paragraph 2, of the first paragraph did not address these. That's what they say. These people weren't there, or this transition wasn't there. These were the small ones who grew up, who worked, which were not so much related to transitions of this negative sense, that is to say how quickly to get some capital in half with incest and all the other features of our market and work, but these are those small companies that are growing, that are building and which are mostly owned by individual, one two, families, after two partners, God knows it - but you are covered by this. And now I see, as the Minister says, that the essence of this second article was this transition matter. This is only now, say, the power to understand when this amendment is proposed. As a result, the honourable Minister, my question was because I received this amendment today on the bench proposed by the two parties to the visa of the overwhelming ownership stake. That is why, forgive me, it is very difficult to follow the path that the government has in this particular law in income on capital gains, very difficult from all these different proposals. The Honourable Minister commented on the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment on ten million and, in fact, no matter the time of withdrawal, in order for someone to adjust their sales under tax and, of course, hunt - not to be. Of course, there's nothing wrong with that, but that's what it's gonna be. We are now talking about transition, this amendment is aimed back, for transition. For he can no longer speculate, if he has, I don't know, in a few shares or, I don't know, in his stake in Mercator, or in any other larger society the capital he's received in transition has already achieved and exceeded 10 million years ago. And they are, in my opinion, to be paid in connection with Article 91, which should mean that there is not a complete difference in the tax base, but then here is the subject of tax exemptions or deductions of the tax base. So I don't know, I could only conclude by saying that, indeed, from the basic text of the explanations and amendments and the coalition treaty as some initial strategy, forgive me, respected government, but I don't see the concept that you're following.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bajuk, then Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u140	Thank you very much. There's only two things I'd answer. Three years first. I'm going to say that I was probably one of those culprits too, that this came into the coalition contract, even though I'm not a member. But then I wrote about this area and, of course, the ratio in the capital market was completely different from the one. At the time, interest rates were untaxed and it was difficult to launch a capital market. And my proposals were to cut it down to a one-year period in order to stimulate the capital market to develop. And they probably took these proposals into account, and they also included these proposals in the coalition contract. However, the situation has changed greatly from this point of view. We now have an extremely rapid interest rate reduction. At the same time, we have a concept of income, which also introduces taxation through directives, which is very gradual, but also taxing interest; in short, these various financial investments are becoming roughly the same. From this point of view, of course, some savings in capital market deposits are moving now, which causes - for example, in March, this was for 6 billion tolars in capital market investments. So now this capital market does not need any more incentives. And from this point of view, it is logical that you are responding at the moment when we are going to RM2 and we are also expecting to enter the euro and, of course, also when we are going to the European Union - all of this affects different situations than they were then. Therefore, this three-year period makes sense to maintain and not overheat capital markets with additional incentives. The second question is about small businesses. Small businesses, you are, if I understand you correctly, but I apologize for being able to misinterpret it, we have therefore set this limit of 200 million capital, which covers 96% of small enterprises, that for those who invest in these small enterprises, the family, where they have large shares, can also 100% of the shares, that these are excluded from the bulk of ownership and that these are subject to a three-year period in which, if sales, capital gains are included in the income, then after three years, not that these companies are being stimulated, because this is the kind of enterprise that we want to stimulate and that is why we have also proposed the law on the support environment for entrepreneurship and you have also adopted it in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajuk then.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I must also explain because the speech was about the proposal of the Nobel Prizewinner in the economy of Dr Stiglica, and also in his reply, the Minister used this concept. I think we're mixing two things here that are completely different. Here we are dealing with the Income Law in some of the normalities, and we are not including this extraordinary law, which this gentleman has proposed. Josef Stiglic proposed this as a solution for Russia, where he proposed at the time in connection with this tycoon Hodorkovskien and we could also read this in Slovenia in Finance - I think it was last December 15th, an article just about how Russia should tax at least 90% of the capital gains of these people who have enriched overnight. This is a special tax, but it is not related to what we are discussing here today. This may happen again in Slovenian society. But the fact is that we have here and every reference by the government to any such comparison with this proposal is, at least, what I can say is, it's ridiculous -- it has no connection. What you have proposed in the first version, in the second version and now in the third version, has absolutely nothing to do with Mr Stiglic's proposal. Not only that, it actually works the opposite way. This is what I think must be very serious in front of the eyes, because if not, the debate is still mixed and it is trying to display such and different approaches as far more interesting than they are actually or obviously. But I would return to your final answer, Mr. Secretary. In fact, you did not reply why the Income Act should be the instrument through which the government would support investments in small businesses. Where'd that come from again? And we have not heard the answer from a professional point of view. I want to know why you insist on such an approach. It's hard to find it. Now, I've been looking for it. I've read all kinds of books, and it hasn't yet. And since I'm right on the subject, I'd like to ask you another question. We must all be aware that we are living in this globalised world. Our neighbors have their own tax system, but it's not the same as ours. Whether we like it or not, we need to adapt. Because as long as Slovenia insists on such, some strange approaches, we will have problems, and people will - now at all, because I am not going, they will simply go, and they will invest elsewhere than in their own country. So, also the proposal made by Nova Slovenija is very much in terms of what is happening in our immediate vicinity. As you know, Austria has a very high capital profit tax in the first year in the short term, so we propose that ours is also lower in support of the development of our capital market. And not only that, but also their levels are higher. But as for the long-term, 20%, it is, I think, the colleagues of the Liberal Democracy will still have some support for us, because the only one who fought for a lower level, the capital gains, was George Bush. I hope you don't propose the same as George Bush did in his country to get out there, in the United States, a capital profit tax, and then he wanted to lower it, and he also temporarily achieved it. I hope you don't follow his example, at least I understand that you disagree with this gentleman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u143	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u144	Thank you very much. In fact, I would only like to point out so much because of the consistency of the Minister-designate that the government has proposed the text of the law it has proposed, and the government has not proposed 200 million borders as it has proposed - not a government now, but a group of Members or two groups of Members. I believe that you may have recommended that, too, but I have been talking about the concept followed by the government, and this concept is painted over the text that the government has put into the process and which it has somehow argued. Today, this solution came to the table by sending clubs. And I can only conclude from your explanation today that you are following someone else, I would say that you are going to capital and that you are excluding 96%, if I understand small entrepreneurs correctly, out. That's right, that's right. However, from what you have proposed or what the government has proposed, this cannot be concluded. This is the power to conclude only today on the basis of the amendment of two parliamentary clubs, not yours - I mean, formally speaking. So my observation that there is no consistent logic of these proposals by the government is, I don't know, difficult to deal with today. But I think that if this is what you think is good now, we are closer, we are much closer to a solution; what was originally proposed, of course not. I wanted so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Minister, please
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u146	I'll tell Mr. Visionak again. A very complicated area, and we were aware that when we gave the law to the government, we would have to study and listen to the discussions. We also had discussions with the Chamber of Economics, and we had further discussions with economists. So here, I must say, there have been several stages to this proposal, the final one that took into account the debate on the committee, the discussion still, I would say, according to these groups, which are important - in my opinion, and this is somehow optimistic. But the strategy was always the same. The logic was essentially the same as Stiglic's logic - not the same, I said, the variant of his logic that he put in place, and this logic is that non-productively acquired assets are taxed in a certain way and that they are stimulated by what is produced by entrepreneurship, by offering services and others on the market. So it was a strategy to get to a model that would not be bad for one part of the economy and that at the same time these incomes would be derived from assets that were not, say, obtained by some productive work, entrepreneurship and the like, which Stiglic also writes to capture somehow. So I think it's a combination now that's optimal. Of course, as I said, any such - more goals at the same time as one law, with one model, is problematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u147	Can we move on to a decision? We are at Article 87, under the first amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. If adopted, the amendment under points 2 and 3 will be irrelevant. We're voting. 48 in attendance, 9 in and 38 in. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Since it has not been adopted, we can decide on the next two, first of all on the second. This is an amendment from the New Slovenia Group. We're voting! 50 present, 11 for, 38 versus. [[The vote was 11.]] [[38 against.]] We are also voting on the third amendment of the LDS, ZLSD and DesUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against this amendment. The government has not answered our question - not once, three times. The Minister did not give an expert basis for why this proposal, as there was no professional basis on the first one adopted by the Government, is not the other one she brought through the LDS Group of Members, nor is it for today. This is the wrong approach. Thus, tax laws should not be written. I will strongly vote against it, and I expect not to be alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u149	Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Then we will decide on the amendment under order number 3 to Article 87. We're voting! We're in the middle of a vote. 54 present, 44 to, 9 to. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. Under Article 91, Minister, you wanted to tell me something about this, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u150	In my view, then these two proposals are not relevant if they are adopted in Article 87 of the third amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u151	Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Since the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 87 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 91 makes no sense and is irrelevant as it relates to the potentially adopted amendment. And since it wasn't adopted, this amendment doesn't [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u153	Subsequent number 1 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u154	That's why we're withdrawing him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u155	Under order number one? [[The ad from the bench.]] The amendment of the New Slovenia Group remains relevant, Mr Minister, and we can decide on it. Is that what you're arguing about?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u156	In my opinion, this amendment of New Slovenia is also not relevant if the amendment to Article 87 has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u157	Please, Dr. Bayuk, we can hear your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u158	Thank you very much. It's quite relevant, of course. It may be necessary to exclude a word in so far as it relates to Article 87. However, I do not expect it to be adopted. However, I think that the National Assembly should also vote on the amendment of New Slovenia to this Article. It's got meaning.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u159	He'll vote. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. This is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 91. We're voting. 54 in attendance, 11 in and 42 in. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 42.]] He didn't get the support he needed. The Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party tabled an amendment to Article 101. Anybody want a word? My colleague's grandchild, you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u161	I didn't know if you were just welcoming me when you came in or if you wanted a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u162	That's good coordination. We are simply proposing to equalize, such as the status of reliefs, including disabled persons, because we believe that disabled persons, or benefits, or reliefs in these matters, as well as in others, have a regulated status with the law. And both organizations work, we can say, in the public interest. Of course, we propose that such works, occasional and temporary care or assistance to disabled persons, which is not new, have been established in our legislation for decades, so that this can be facilitated. For this work is not attractive, and otherwise it is not appreciated, but it is of great help to these persons. And even in this way, if this could be facilitated, people with disabilities would be able to get the most basic care and care in all their daily activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u163	Anyone else want a word? Please, Comrade Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u164	The amendment should be supported and should also be supplemented. Now the disabled organizations, we've talked about this a number of times. If they are disability organisations, they operate under the conditions of a humanitarian organisation, then that's fine. A disability organisation is defined as a disability, but it can do a variety of things. We've discussed this a number of times. And that is why, as I stress again, it would introduce the concept of 'humanitarian organisation', that is, 'non-profit of civil society' and so on. And that's a universal definition, international. Now, disabled people are like this: they are disabled people who can do such things, but they can do something else. There should also be "humanitarian organisations".
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u165	Good. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. The government opposes this amendment. Firstly, the term "disability" does not matter, because in the second indent of point 2 of this Article we are talking about voluntary or on the basis of an invitation or call for invited voluntary, amateur, humanitarian, charitable and other activities - we are not talking about disability activities. If a person has volunteered to work for a disability organisation for voluntary or humanitarian purposes, in this case he or she is already exempt from income payments. This second part of the amendment under point 7 concerns essentially the income from employment that other natural persons carry out in support of these persons and receive regular income and must be aligned as regards taxation with other income from employment. If, of course, this is voluntary, this is already forgiven in this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u167	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. Then we'll move on to the decision. We are in the 101st article, the amendment of the Youth Party's parliamentary group and we will now vote on it. Please. We're voting. 48 in attendance, 8 in and 34 in. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 34.]] He wasn't accepted. On the fifth page of the review, we are in Article 102 and the amendment of the LDS, ZLSD and DesUS. Anybody want a word? Please. You have the floor. Mr. Trofenik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. This amendment to Article 102 is very cleverly written. At first glance, it seems to bring benefits, that the relief or the amount from which income is not paid raises from 150,000 to 200,000. But, I'm sorry, this is a trick that's hidden in deleting the last sentence. What's this all about? A decision was taken on the Committee to exempt income payments up to a level of 150,000, but if this remuneration is higher than 150,000, the base shall be reduced by 150 or this is a deductible item. This amendment, in fact, removes this repulsive item and brings the situation to impossible waters. What does that mean? If, for example, the remuneration of 151,000 is no relief and it is necessary to pay all taxes and income I would warn that, if there were earlier speeches on amateur sport and certain other activities, not only in the field of sport, we need to find that there was nothing done to ensure that different forms of organised civil society, whether society or anything, could operate transparently, legally and similarly. To make this easier for those of you who may not be involved, I'll tell you about the case. A sports game of the youngest categories of pioneers or ciciban should be judged because games are such that they need to be judged. Today's legislation requires a special tax of 25%, then an income adjustment of 25%, including travel and daily expenses associated with this, and a special contribution of approximately 6%. For one-off prizes under existing legislation up to 150,000 tolars, there is no need to pay a special tax 25%, but income must be paid. And the text, which was basically, also justified the payment of income, so that the practical would have some kind of net system of up to 150,000 a year, distributed practically into five monthly payments. Of course, this raise from 150,000 to 200,000 is uninhabitable, I say, and unnecessary. But this is a scam to make it easier to fall for that sentence, the last one to be deleted, which means that this absolute amount of 150,000 goes, basically, into a deductible item. If anything, it's unacceptable. Obviously, although the changes have already facilitated the state budget, when the introduction said, for 15 billion, it is, of course, illogical, someone is proposing an amendment that appears to facilitate further amounts. In fact, by means of the proposed solution, we are trying to focus attention on those who do not follow this and who do not know it and in this way to convince them to vote in favour, without being aware of the unacceptable situation that is currently in this area and of any negative consequences that will follow. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In order for companies and other similar institutions to be able to operate legally and within acceptable frameworks within the framework of the material possibilities they have, something needs to be done in the context of legislation. And that's the least you can do. We talked earlier about prizes for excellence, which are very few in Slovenian sport, and we rated them in one way or another. There will be none if there is no infrastructure in sport, because they will not be able to train and create top athletes. Because if they have no one to compete with and if they are relaxing, not only in skiing, generally all young categories in different forms of sport, where Slovenia means something, and on the segment, because clubs find that they cannot pay costs legally, as well as judicial and coaching, those who perform, amateurs, coaches voluntarily. But it is not possible to ask someone to judge 40 weekends in a year for free and to impose a tax on a minimum wage and it is not possible to require all trainers to be professionals, employees, and a minority of them, especially for young categories. And if there are no young ones, of course, none will be slow. And let us not act so irresponsiblely! Earlier, I said responsiblely that after two months of winning one of the medals, tax control is carried out if taxes and contributions have been paid from the prizes. It would be correct, I do not mind if some of the other tax liabilities or the billions of unpaid liabilities of some large companies were controlled equally on an up-to-date basis by some of the non-real profits they hide in one way or another. It's similar in the field of sports. We can review from village clubs further if they have not paid taxes from court costs and so on, but we do not know how to ensure that these institutions can operate legally, and thus in fact demonstrate their sincere attitude towards sport, to the education of young and free activities of all forms. Therefore, please, I would be most pleased if the motioners withdrew this amendment because it is very dangerous or would not be pleasant to vote for this amendment. However, I hope that there will be such a critical mass of responsibility and intelligence that this amendment will not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u169	Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I'd like to say a few words myself against this amendment. I fully agree with the predecessor's remarks and would also confirm that, on the occasion of the visit of the sport inspector, it has actually been confirmed that the costs of judges and the costs of the competition system for young selection should not be financed by the so-called youth sport programme, which directly raises the issue related to this amendment; this segment of youth sport should be financed by grants and donations. And if this is as you suggest or try to legitimize what you are now proposing, then there really is no legal possibility to finance this segment of sport, which I think is crucial. This solution is in mockery and contrary to everything that is done on various programs - the wind in the hair, on programs to prevent and protect young people from drugs and all that. It's free when we turn around, then we tear it all down. I think that we should be more responsible here, but above all I cannot believe that you have not seen the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u171	Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u172	Thank you. The Government supports the amendment of the three parliamentary groups for the following reasons. The proposal for a new income essentially introduces a very important innovation in this area. The two previous speakers did not point out one very important fact that the reimbursements of all costs are exempt and do not go at all or are not included in this annual quota of 200,000 tolars as an untaxed part of the income. It is essentially an exemption from income when a natural person voluntarily participates in certain activities. This is mainly in participation in societies, in various humanitarian, sports, other amateur activities. And if we call this lovemaking, we have simply introduced a limit in this proposal, to which level of income we can also consider whether any of these activities are voluntary or not possible to be a purely profitable activity. By doing so, of course, if we did not support this amendment, we would have wiped out traces of profitable and unprofitable or voluntary application. I think that these solutions make it more possible to engage in this kind of lovemaking, especially with the fact that the actual costs are completely exempt and are not included in these 200,000 tolars at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u173	Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! I doubt that the speaker, my fellow Member, has read the basic text of this Article, which has been amended and supplemented by the third paragraph on the Committee. I seriously doubt that! And if this solution, which has been adopted by the Committee, and now with the amendment of the three parliamentary groups, we are trying to raise this limit on the one hand and, on the other hand, to set a limit that there are probably not many societies that could share untaxed amounts of up to 200,000 tolls to the various natural persons who through these societies would engage in voluntary activities to make it a small awareness. This solves very wide or very wide range of issues that are not adequately addressed in the current law. Whether this is the right solution or not is another question. However, they had the option of both colleagues who had previously discussed the possibility of proposing a better solution on their own. I am sure, as we have adopted the amendment to Article 21, that even if the solution were better than this, the amendment would be adopted. For this reason, I think it is simply a matter of a great deal of deception and deception to put an end to all voluntary activities listed in the first three indents or in points 101. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u175	Comrade Trofenic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u176	Thank you. I would like to replicate both Mrs State Secretary and colleague Puck. Dear colleague Pucka, I am very disappointed that you have changed your position from a board meeting to a 180-degree meeting today. It would be good for someone else to read a magnetogram if they did not want it or forgot what position they were taking. I practically understand. What Mrs Kolareva said - but it does not work out for the proponents because they only see the balance sheet. They also see the balance sheet unilaterally and I am very close to those who need to defend budgets and put together, so I can quickly get into their skin. How unilaterally, I will say later in one article, I will not mix now, because it will break and prove that this is not at all an interest in getting as much revenue for the state budget as possible. But that's when it comes to a little harder amendment than this. Comrade Pucko, you are on the committee as chairman of my warning or the question that followed from the explanation of this amendment - because the most cunning thing is that it is written in the text so that it will bring this under law. The text doesn't bring anything. And it is most insulting that the texts are so written that the act of law will interpret them as "pasha" as well as the authorities, not as we will accept, and as in good faith, we will accept that we have done something. We need to be aware of this and we need to draw attention to this harshness or truth. This was seen from the submission of the amendment or the explanation of the amendment. I'm pretty sure that's what I am. I'm sorry. It doesn't even belong to me. Let's just say I didn't get involved on the board. However, if we now read this third point of Article 102, some can also read it by going to these amounts of mileage and travel costs. And I would advise anyone else to read it well, not just the prize. Now, those who are not aware of the seriousness of the situation, if you think it is amateurism or it is lovemaking, when you have to go, if you are responsible, every weekend - 40 weekends - even during the week from Koper to Ljubljana or from Ljubljana to Lendava for the bare travel costs and even paying taxes. And if you think that Slovenian sports clubs and other societies [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They're so rich they can pay for it, you're wrong. You know what the result is? So that they can't pay, and they're in breach, then, of course, inspection and decision-making are coming, and this country is running it as claims. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u177	Time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u178	Not "by pass" clubs, but this. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u179	Time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u180	I'm sorry about that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u181	My friend Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, in order to avoid this, Mr Trophynik, which is what you are talking about at the end of the day - that is, we do not all have very large sports and other societies, but not least cultural ones, but they are not provided enough through budget, donations or other resources. Very simple examples: we have teams in football and also women's representation of children under 14 years of age, but there is no means for all. But when you're playing the game, you have to have the one who's gonna hold the "korner" flag there, and so on, and in such cases -- or to clean up the stadium, you might have to give him two or three thousand. And that such problems, which are small and for some society not least small, are large, we have funded from different backgrounds only to set a limit, one for which you cannot submit an appropriate certificate at the end stage to justify it. While it will be confirmed, but not least, it will not go through taxation - nothing was meant to do so: now a limit will be used. In this sense, I think there has been a debate on the Committee as well. Well, I didn't really see this as a special instruction, because it's not necessary, but it's to give some form of relief that societies themselves can regulate for such or even smaller cases. Even if children come, not least, to be stuck at the opening of such a youth game, you have to give some cocktails at the end of the stage as well as a sandwich, and sometimes you can't have the right invoice for everyone, but you can buy it at the store; but I know that this block is not a basis for relief, one way or another. In this sense, I think it has been proposed and this height has also been set. Of course, it is elevated, but it is so much better, at least for some, it is more appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u183	Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Comrade Trophynik, I hope that your disappointment will pass during this debate, especially because you have had the opportunity to prepare and propose a better solution. At the same time, I am convinced that there is so much obedience in this assembly that your better solution, than I have done so many times, is surely acceptable to you. I'm wondering why you didn't do it. You even attributed me to the authorship of the amendment, which is discussed. I'm not an author; maybe if I were, I'd say something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u185	Comrade Trofenic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u186	First of all, my friend Groszl. I guess it's just a misunderstanding. Just what you're saying isn't gonna happen. But practice will show you; to teach you, I do not intend to persuade anyone. And then to my colleague Puck. In good faith, there will be a solution for which you, as president and as a member of the committee, have tried to resolve it at least once. However, I am so realistic that any of my better proposals that I could write, and I also have them in stock, there is no possibility of being accepted. Don't make fun of me like that. But I think there's a whole bunch of people in this national council, and there's a lot of water from sports that's close to sports, and there's parents, if not others. And it cannot be all the same if that basic segment of sport does not have sound foundations and healthy conditions. He's not ready to miss it. It would be nice, of course, I'm just one of those very little stones in the mosaic. I would expect from the department, which I now hear for the first time, that it is not possible to pay from public funds the judicial costs of the profession, the same as the trainer or the trainer for the youngest. I understand it's not necessary for professionals. This is an entrepreneurial way and there is a need to provide income differently. But it's the youngest. And put it all together, look at the situation we're in, and it's not possible to say that we have a positive attitude towards sport if we deny it. Not just sports. Also in other activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u187	I think we can move on to a decision. We're at Rule 102. The three parliamentary groups have tabled an amendment and we are now deciding on it. We vote on the amendment of the three parliamentary groups. 55 present, 43 for, 10 versus. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] Article 108 We're dealing with amendments that are exactly the same. We will therefore say that we are voting on one amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia. Is that okay? The text is exactly the same. So, one amendment, one decision, more candidates. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u188	Thank you, President. In the third amendment, there is a minimal change in the last sentence. But it's just vocabulary. Just a dictionary, only two words are replaced if I've been paying attention. Article 108 speaks of specific personal facilitations and touches on the issue of student work. I must say that, in fact, we received a very late argument from the student organisation of Slovenia, and we, when we read this, have actually, as a group, summarized the proposal for a solution in its entirety as proposed by them. There are three arguments that have led us to take this risk as a member group, and this amendment has been tabled. The first argument is that from the lowest income classes, the student work is unfortunately a kind of social adjustment. This is a real fact in Slovenia. The second argument is a valid scholarship policy. As the students told us, although they do not have data on staff scholarships, too many Slovenian students and students do not have scholarships. And they're sentenced to college work. That's a second argument. The third argument, which partly relates to the first, is that students from the periphery and less from the centre are particularly attached to the student work. Because the cost of their stay or in Ljubljana, Maribor or Koper is much higher for those who are not home from Ljubljana, Maribor or Kopra. It's a real fact. And another argument is that studying abroad, which is no longer a privilege, but is self-assurance and in the material it is evident that there are no isolated cases when students or students first earn and go for a semester or a few months to study abroad. That's four arguments why we tabled this amendment. The question of the shorter period of study, this is a counterargument by the government, this is a Bologna declaration. This issue will be resolved within the framework of the law amending the law on higher education. And now the key argument represented by the government is that the government felt obliged to eliminate abuse of work through student services. For me, now it is only a matter of principle if the amendment is rejected, or whether we will end the abuse of work through student service, but unfortunately we will hit the healthy core of student work. We have two things on the scale here. Does it not seem to us that in eliminating abuse of work through student services, these are likely to exist, or is it a real mechanism through the Income Law? Don't you think it's more fair that the Income Act stimulates the healthy core of student work, other mechanisms, from inspections forward, and very strongly, they get into sanctioning abuse at work through student services? These are the reasons why we have been quoted as having tabled the proposed amendment in the Group of Members. If we do not get convincing arguments that we would reject, we will also support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u189	My friend Jakich and Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Given that I have a moral obligation to this issue. As you know, in the first term I was a representative of the University of Ljubljana, in the assembly of the united work, and in some ways I consider that we were able to provide adequate conditions for the students at that time. I even have to say, not only comparable, but even better conditions than their colleagues and colleagues in the developed countries of the European Union. I'm talking, of course, about the student diet subsidy. I'm talking about the possibility of redemption. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] also considered in the pension period etc., etc., which together with colleagues and colleagues from various political parties we have managed to incorporate into Slovenian legislation. At the time of our consideration of Article 108 of this Law, which is before us, two fears have occurred to me personally and several noises have occurred in communication. First, based also on material and conversation with representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, the first such fear was presented that, of course, with the first paragraph of Article 108, which deals with special facilitations, we will, by limiting 26 years in some way, violate the right to student status with which to work through student service. In fact, my questions, which flew to the authorities, also spoke about whether we are not actually starting another law and not interfering with matters more concerning the law on higher education, especially the internal regulation of universities which, of course, define the status of students and do not bind them to life. I must say that this thought is still in the air for me, why this is written in the Income Act. However, it is clear from the very detailed reading of this first paragraph of Article 108 that the facilitation is discussed until the age of 26, where a reduction in the tax base is recognised. Then, of course, this paragraph should be read until the end, which states that the said facilitation shall also be recognised to a person who fulfils the conditions of the previous sentence and who is over 26 years of age if enrolled in a study up to 26 years of age, for an undergraduate study for a maximum of six years from the date of entry and for a postgraduate study for a maximum of four years from the date of entry. This means, in fact, one such case would be in view of the Bologna Declaration, which actually speaks of the fact that it would be good to stop studying, practice and return, was one of the concerns of students of the medical faculty who have been studying for a long time. My thought was also for students who, after graduating from one university, are just so fierce that they go to another university. But of course, they are covered by this, because if they enter up to 26 years of age, that means, of course, that they can operate, if I may say so, with the right that allows them to work through the student service. The next fear which was and which is also recorded in the documents of the student organization Slovenia is the fear that a drastic reduction in the taxable part of the student's income is taking place. Students in this letter, MEPs and Members, are alarmingly warning us that this is a 51% reduction in this right. I must say that this also encouraged me to think, but in particular to gather information on what this really means and, as my colleague Podobnik said, to cut into this body of the student population. According to the assurances I received, this kind of decline, even though I do not see it, because it is a million 600,000 tolar a year, is said to have been explained by 97% of students and students of universities in Slovenia, this new article did not concern 97% of students and students already receive their income from work through student services at the level set out in the proposed Article 108, special reliefs, or what, if I understood correctly, was adopted on the competent committee. But it is true, President, that during this discussion there were quite a few so-called noises, I told them myself to the woods. It is, of course, that we started to mix some other things in this context. It has been said that employers pay a lot through student travel and that in fact there are many people who are not entitled to this work through student services. This, in fact - and here I agree with Mr Podobnik - is not even a matter of this legislation, but of the student organisation and students themselves, it is a matter of control mechanisms that should prevent such an anomaly on the labour market, because in fact the work through student service has been introduced in all these years as a social adjuster of the study itself. Studies, in all literature, of the sociologicals, are in fact masked by unemployment. And, of course, in this context, we also need to look at and not connect it - this is one of the other noises that I heard in this discussion to make comparisons. And they say students earn more than textile workers who have to pay their income at the end of the year. Indeed, in some cases, according to the calculations we have now, I think that 115,000 monthly income through student service is the one that is non-taxable, and this is actually greater than the salaries of some workers and workers in the Republic of Slovenia. But despite all that, you have to look on the other side at why students work through student services. The vast majority of the work to actually cover the costs of study and help their parents, whose backs are obviously the whole study, survive this month. Students' rooms in Slovenia are, of course, very expensive in private, and this also forces students and students to work through student services. However, in this room it must not be questioned and, of course, it must be said that some or a large majority of students actually use their status in order to earn money and, in fact, to serve at the expense of student travel. I think that this is incorrect and to a large number in this case, if I understand correctly, also 97% of these students are unjustifiable and insulting. Some of us remember our study time and compare that today around student homes, around college there is no way to park cars because students have such status as to drive cars in the course of the study. It's true, but it's a development, and if you look, if you even go to see what kind of cars they drive, I have to say that as a regular student, I was also driving with one broken floor, working through a student service for a simple reason, because I had my first child in college years and I was working with an extramarital partner through a student service. So it seems to me that these forests need to be removed and talked about the woods, but to talk about the dilemmas that are exposed here. So, if I've analyzed it correctly, and both fears, it's a drastic reduction in the taxation work that's justifiable. It is not a drastic reduction, and secondly, that we do not limit ourselves to 26 years, although, again, I repeat, it seems strange to me that in the income law we are talking about the so-called "age limit" and we do not leave the status behind, because the university itself grants student status and the university itself defines when a student is and, of course, from this right, then the rights of work through the student service are also derived. However, in the second part of Article 108, paragraph 1, this fear has also been lifted in my case if they hold all the assurances of the applicant - the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that we do not really affect the tax-free, non-taxable work, do not interfere with the body or the student population, but it will, of course, affect 3% of the student population who have more annual income than 1,600,000 tolars who have not been taxed so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u191	Thank you. Comrade Pucko on the amendment to Article 108.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the statements in the letter from the Slovenian student organisation that the government does not respect the agreement between it and the student organisation of Slovenia, and in the light of the accusations made by representatives of this organisation on the working body, I would ask the government representatives to resolve this dilemma. If these statements are incorrect, I think it's pointless to talk about these three amendments at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u193	I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister, your coworkers! If you remember the debate initiated by the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, when asked by the Finance Minister about salaries, ratings, such and others that are not counted as salaries, they do not count as an increase in the averages which result not only in an increase or harmonisation, properly said, of pensions, but also of all other social rights, such as unemployment and so on. We see the essence of the problem in the next. First time. We all or almost all have indirect, even more directly, students in our families. If not already students, because this article applies and this amendment also concerns students, this is said to be the case that we are all interested in resolving this issue as best as possible for the benefit of young people. It has already been said from certain performances that you work as hard as you can, the less time you have to learn, if you are a student, or if you are a student. I have to fix my colleague Jakič, because it's a very simple calculation, a million 600 divided by 12 is 133 thousand a month. You don't need a computer. It is said that those employees who do not receive even 80, 90 thousand will be affected by income, literally, and students, such or otherwise, will benefit from the monthly 133 thousand dollars net, I say net, because it is untaxed and no income is paid, and let's compare, gentlemen and ladies, these two items. I'm not talking about pensioners who don't even have 133 grand or that. We know most of them there are about 80 or 90 thousand. The point of the problem is that I agree with the speakers that this exploitation, manipulation and everything else needs to be resolved with other measures: for example inspections and so on. But tell me, ladies and gentlemen, how will that student study when he will serve every month, as I said, a total of 1 million 600. Will he be able to work, I'll say, 12, 14, 16 hours a day if he wants to study at this regular work? Let us leave aside what you have said, that businesses also simply employ people or young people at the expense of their student work, or not young people if they are used by a guide via an uncle or one or the other. I believe that Article 108 is appropriate and I will not personally support such an amendment, which will overwhelm all the efforts that are being made and is also informal, under the term 'grey economy', which takes jobs for the unemployed who could be taken at this company's expense. We proved that at the time, in the general debate that we voted on this issue, the Minister of Finance presented the evidence and the arguments further. And I would have allowed myself to remind you of those debates and those arguments that were presented at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u195	My friend Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u196	I would, for the first time, correct Mr. Kebrich's statement. Of course I can count. The data you're talking about is for 2005 and it's a million sixth, and for 2004 it was a million two hundred, which means about 100,000 a month. But, Mr. Kebrich, you misunderstood me. Of course, you understood that I am in favour of the amendments, but I was talking about the fact that my fears were eliminated and I will not stick to or vote for the amendment and I will stick to the original text. But one more thing, because now you've "piercing me" when you're talking about student work, is to make it known, for God's sake, that student work through student service isn't just moving cabinets and carrying coal into a basement. But sometimes it is also a very intellectual work, which coincides with a study with which students study. And so please don't talk about how he can't study and can't work. Even during vacations you can earn a lot of money, but then you don't work with student status. That's why I spoke earlier about two fears, 26 years over, in the second part of the first paragraph, about the fear of a million sixth, which I thought was a properly evaluated amount of 133,000 tolars and that this reduction was only 3% of those trying, not 97%. However, I was talking about the need to eliminate the forests that appear in this discussion. And I understand why you're making noise by how students actually exploit the story and work and serve, and I don't know how they bring this system around. Even when I mentioned it, and you pointed it out wrong again. The fact that someone's using a student guide from a student service, they're mostly employers. It is not a matter and it is not a problem of students and their status, but it is a problem of control and inspection which, of course, allows anomaly on the market. When we introduced a system that allows students to acquire this social adjuster when studying, we did not have this in front of us, but we had in front of our eyes that through a student, those who need it for economic reasons or who can already sell their intellectual property during the study and with the money that helps them study provide better conditions for study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u197	I think we can end this discussion now. He's a colleague of grandkids. Minister, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that we are also proposing this amendment, I would only point out, because there has been something already said - I would not look back at the arguments already put forward in favour of the amendment - that this is primarily a violation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed by Prime Minister Tone Rop and the student organisation, which was on 26 February. Today, April 8th, not yet a month and a half, the government is in breach of this agreement, where, among other things, it has been said that the tax policy for students and students remains the same as it was. This is the essence of the problem, no matter how much someone has taken advantage of; for thank God, if it is only 3%, for example, there is no problem taking advantage of this stimulation. However, until there is a human resources policy or a scholarship such that it will allow students not to use their jobs to survive during the study period - because we need to know that there will also be an increase in the taxation of rent income in this law, which is going to be passed on to the students' backs. And with this special relief or a gift from the country, as we have heard formerly from colleague Jakič, who mentioned it, we have also boasted at our accession to the European Union that we will be some refugees with whom we can boast and why we should not keep it. However, it is the task of the inspectorate and the Ministry of Labour to be more selective in granting these concessions for these works and to take them away from those who violate these matters. That is why this is an essential issue here. Here this proposal of the Minister of Finance places on the lie the signature and the word of the Prime Minister. However, this amendment is a compromise, for so far this relief was 51% gross average wage, 11% general relief, 40% special personal relief - and here we propose that these special personal reliefs be 35%, it is said to be decreasing, even for the reduction of these various manipulations that have been mentioned. So I propose or appeal to my fellow Members to support this amendment and to take into account, for the first time, the agreement signed by the Prime Minister on 26 February and, until other solutions have been found to be friendly to the students concerning the scholarships and until the student residence capacity is resolved to remain within this agreement. It is not, however, that there is now an attempt on the side door through the law on income on the shoulders of students and also parents, of course, because by reducing these benefits, parents will be the most affected, and thus discrimination will arise, as we can also talk about the fact that the study will only be possible for the rich, but not for all, which is contrary to other fundamental directions of our country and also the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u199	Minister, then we'll go to the vote. Mag. Visjak, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. I answer Mr Puck, Mr Podobnik and others who have asked two questions. So whether this will affect the healthy core of student work was your definition and whether we respect the agreement signed by the government. Let me literally read you that deal. The agreement says: "The Ministry of Finance will, within its powers, strive for a tax policy which will not constitute a significantly different tax treatment for students and students than is now in force." That's what the deal says. Let's see what this solution is. The current solution means, as Mr Jakič has already mentioned, that more than 90% of the students who worked are without taxation. Following the new solution referred to in Article 108, as it has been so far. The next more than 5%, it says together comes around 97, if it's rounded, is a minimum tax because these are up to 1.6 million, which would be, say, a conversion of around 27.200 tolars. That is to say, if you look at that core of student work, 91% is not taxed further than a million 400,000 and some to a million 600,000 minimum taxes and just over tax, so from this point of view I think that what Mr Roman Jakič said is completely true. There is no fear here that student work in this basic design would be affected.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u201	Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. The SDS also supported this amendment, which was apparently transmitted to all the parliamentary groups by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. It follows from the Minister's explanations that the Government considers that it has followed the agreement with the Student Organisation of Slovenia by means of a proposed solution to the Income Law. I don't think it's the right way, Minister, that you're coming to Parliament with solutions that you don't comply with the Student Organisation, but you think they're harmonised. If I understand correctly, you have just said that this solution does not deviate significantly from the current regulation of student work or taxation and that you think or consider that the solution is in accordance with the signed agreement. The student organisation of Slovenia does not think so. Therefore, it also proposes the following amendment. I believe that in this House we have repeatedly pointed out the importance of dialogue, both social and other, between the one proposing something and the one concerned by this proposal. That is why I think it would be right to align these solutions with the student organisation, of course. However, if they were not harmonised, they would clearly come before us with a solution that is not harmonised and the legislator is the one who then decides as he decides. However, the problem is that no effort has been made to bring everyone together to realize that this matter is not coordinated. This seems to me like a bad and bad journey to this proposed solution. I understand and also accept the Government's arguments. I understand and also accept the arguments of the student organisation. But let me tell you something, the first students who use the Institute of Student Work for that initial purpose, that means that this is a social adjustment to allow the students to be the first ones against the abuse of student work. That is why I believe that this government has not been wise enough to punish those who abuse student work, but only the employer has been sanctioned, who does so by the supervisory service, the labour inspection and other inspections. There's quite a few cases when they make moms, aunts, and I don't know who else is on the student guides. There's a lot of pensioners and stuff. There's a lot of that. This is with the recognition of the company, because the company that is so "student" under the terms of reference, through a travel agent actually a student who is not there at work, is with the permission of the company and the company is knowingly going into a violation. At the same time, however, a student or a student is going into a violation. And it's against this element of social adjustment for students, which is unacceptable. That is why I think that if the government would also want to regulate this issue in a different way, so that it can also send appropriate proposals to Parliament, and that perhaps tax policy is just not the right thing to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u203	Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The abuses that Visjak spoke about are unacceptable. Apparently, we all know them, we tolerate them, and we live with them. That's something wrong. But abuse is not an integral part of the income law. As for the agreement between the government and the student organisation, there may have been a lack of caution. If you write in agreement, essentially different treatments, the keyword is essential. But you're interpreting it politically. What is a major change? I would have a similar position as colleague Vizjak that the government has some arguments here about height itself. But see, if I look again at the text of the first paragraph, I think that it was written quickly, and that it is mainly in the last sentence, that it is contrary to the Bologna declaration. He says, "for undergraduate studies for a maximum of six years from the date of entry and for postgraduate studies for a maximum of four years from the date of entry." Unlike the new concept, it only assumes continuous study. We will soon have a change of law in the National Assembly, where it will be clear that it is legitimate and legal to stop studying when you go abroad. And here we should make that exception in the amendment. And I ask representatives of the government whether it would be acceptable for you to write that for a period not exceeding six years from the date of entry or more, for the time when you are abroad. This would be correct and in accordance with the Bologna Declaration. If this is acceptable to you, then I would ask for a ten-minute recess to complete the amendment only in this context. If it's still a business possibility to complete our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u205	Okay, but I wouldn't order a 10-minute break right now to break Parliament's work, but we'd move on with the amendment decision, and then we'd go back. Is that okay? How does he feel about one proposal or another? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. See, the proposal for the text of Article 108(1) summarises the current legislation in the field of education. And you all know better than I do that it's impossible to bring into marriage something that will happen if it happens and when it's changed school law. In this law, which is likely to enter into force before these changes mentioned by you in school legislation, we cannot introduce certain provisions and amend some of the already existing education system. We have consulted with the Ministry of Education that such a dictatorship has come in because, under that legislation, it is allowed when it is possible to register as soon as possible. And that's 26 years. And from this year forward, we have taken as an individual type of study still the average study age and added. What Mr Jakič has already said is that, in fact, it can be followed that it is possible to use these student benefits or for education up to the age of 32.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u207	Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u208	Or, on the contrary, when you are making a new law, it is only logical that if you can write it in such a way that you put some solutions that are already valid, which will be European, which will be all of Europe, we will write them in here, if possible. We, the President, are going to propose a slight amendment and thus offer a solution. If you refuse it, it will not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u209	Now I wonder if we can move forward without knowing what the exact content of Article 108 will be so as not to complicate things. Do you understand what I'm saying? We have to stop by to complete the amendment, but I'm only giving an answer because it's about the amendment. Otherwise, I wouldn't have decided to take a vacation. I know. We just don't know if there's any cover-up. Please, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to go to other articles if I can. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u210	Mr. Squirrel, maybe that's all. These provisions also apply to studies abroad. If he works here and studies abroad, that's the same thing. Nothing changes that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u211	Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u212	I was in long coalition coordination last week, where we talked a lot about this. One of the key novelties of the Bologna concept is that you can stop your studies. And this solution of yours assumes the permeability of the study. And that's the only difference they'd write down. A very small change will be in our updated amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u213	Minister, is he all right? Is that an explanation relevant? Please let's clear up whether a break is needed or not, or let's vote and move on. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u214	I don't think that's necessary. Such a change is not necessary and I think this has already been explained by Mr Jakič. Because it's these dilemmas, whether you stop or don't stop. What does the new Bologna Declaration bring? From the age of 18 to 23, you complete your master's degree. Do you understand? This is where things change significantly, and when you sign up for the next 26 years, you normally end up in the U.S. at 26 years of age.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u215	My colleague's grandchild first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u216	I am joining Mr Sponik's proposal to give a break because this is already ridiculous, Mr Minister. Mr. Jakich referred to you. And now you are referring to Mr. Jakich. I got it right that he got this information from you. Now you are calling yourselves of him to confirm him. I think it's best that we have a vacation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u217	Comrade Sponik, what is your conclusion now? Otherwise, I will put the amendment as it is to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u218	Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask that you allow us to amend and supplement the amendment of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u219	Good. Since this is a proposal relating to an amendment, because you have such a right as to propose, I give you 10 minutes' rest. Just a minute. What about everyone else? Minister, is there any change in the amendments if we move on with the other amendments? Then could the state council continue its work if nothing changes? Good. Good. We'll keep working. We will leave this open to debate on Article 108. We'll go to Article 109. I don't know the content enough to rely on what you say, Mr. Secretary. Comrade Pucka, you're the chairman of the Finance Committee, can we proceed with this work? Yes, please. Okay. Then we go to Article 109.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the three parliamentary groups, we have followed the debates on the content of this Article and the level of allowances for dependent children. Therefore, we also propose an amendment to this article, which allows for a 13.8% relief for the first child and then for each of the following dependent children for a further 5 percentage points higher relief. This essentially improves the situation of those taxpayers with more children, and we hope that, as has been said many times in some debates, this can also contribute to higher birth rates in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u221	Comrade Visjak, colleague of Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u222	Thank you very much. It is no different than smiling at this, because I am glad that we have finally convinced our colleagues in the government and in position that it is worth preserving some progressive, strong progressive part of the benefits for future children. For, if I recall, it was Mr Pucko who, a while ago, reasoned that it had no connection and that it did not affect fertility, but that it did not make sense to maintain progressiveity. I'm glad there's finally progress here. However, I would focus on the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 109, where we want to reduce the annual tax base for the first dependent child. We propose that this figure, which is 474,900 here, be changed to 653,040. That's what we're arguing with. We do not know how the government is - it says that it has a study, unfortunately I have not seen it, but I would like to make it - that this amount of 474,900 actually represents the reimbursement of the minimum cost of living of the first dependent child or the existential minimum for the child, which somehow follows from the decision of the Constitutional Court. We are proposing a better support, as the Constitutional Court has not said how to measure the minimum cost of living for a child. Therefore, we propose that the tax base or minimum cost of living for a dependent child be determined on the basis of the amount already published and already in force, this is the amount of the material costs of the resident, which is not part of the farm - this is not the whole of the farm, this is part of the rent related to the material costs of the breeder - and this is, in accordance with Article 51 of the Law on the implementation of the breeding activity and consequently the harmonised amount of material costs for the year 2004 is 54,420 tolars per month, which means the proposed amount, that is 653,040 tolars per year. We are therefore proposing, as some actual argument resulting from the solutions already adopted, that the latter amount should also constitute the basis or reduction of the annual tax base for the first dependent child. I think that any other number is rather a speculation or a compromise between the impact on the state treasury and the possible amount, which, as a result, also results in some kind of study; but this study probably goes from the result towards the beginning, towards the introduction, rather than being done in the opposite direction. Last but not least, social services statistics available on the Internet show that these are not the minimum cost of living for a child, especially if we take into account Slovenia's ambition to become a knowledge-based society to raise children from a young age in terms of education, especially quality education, which is linked to a whole range of purchases of such and other educational tools. And then these minimum costs can go up to a higher figure. I think that this is a compromise, so we are also proposing to amend this first point of the first paragraph, which speaks of reducing the annual tax rate for the first dependent child. Of course, the proposal now, so to speak, not least of all harmonisation, I see that the family initiatives with the government were in fact in favour of an identical proposal, which, together with New Slovenia, we are proposing as a formula for introducing this progressive tax rate for all the following children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u223	Comrade Brenčič, behind him is Comrade Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Since the government supports the amendments of the three parliamentary groups, I would like to draw attention to the perversion of a policy that can be a policy. And to summarise this amendment, colleague Pucka, who has proposed a former amendment to the Income Act with a completely diametric basis, as proposed today, but at the time he chaired the finances of another finance minister, not Dr. Marble. When the coalition embarked on a law amending the Income Act or the new Income Act, under Dr. Marble's tactics, we, as a coalition partner, are aware of the reality of the macroeconomic baselines of the budgetary needs and the public financial capacity of the budget, given that there was a starting point for the applicants that there was no excess or progressive escalation in relation to the number of children in the income relief, they proposed in terms of, even as Mr Pucko said, family policy, although I will talk about this further, that the maintenance of a progressive scale will be maintained. We then proposed 2% and a half, but from a slightly different point of origin 13.8 the average of the Republic's salary, while the government's proposal of 14.1 goes. At the time, of course, this was unacceptable for the Ministry of Finance and also unacceptable for the coalition, which we were or were not partners at the time, the Slovenian People's Party. The State Secretary, Mrs Kolereva, claimed that any further child was cheaper. Yeah, it's true, but that was 50 years ago when I was a kid and there were 11 of us in the family. That's what happened. And today after a few months, Mrs Kolareva has completely changed her record. The Minister of Finance noted that, given our starting point, which was somehow expected to be accepted in the coalition, it would have been a waste or additional burden on the budget if I called it that if our proposal had been adopted, 2 billion, so it was unacceptable. Then, of course, because of such and different arguments to the public, such and other civil society, which defended a progressive scale in the title of the family, the Committee adopted the amendment, not the People's Party, but the United List of Social Democrats and Liberal Democracy, in the content of the amended bill. What did this same finance minister, who today supports this proposal from the three parliamentary groups, say? I have to read that something will not be misunderstood: "The changes adopted by the Committee mean, according to the government's proposal, a reduction in income by about 15 billion tolars. This is by more than 40% the increase in income from income generated by the change in corporate income tax. In addition, some amendments derogate from the principles of fair taxation, so Members and Members of Parliament are asking you to reverse these changes in today's debate in order to support those amendments that will bring about the extent of the reduction in income to the extent that the change in corporate income tax allows. Thank you very much. This coalition, of course, works as the entire coalition did during the prime minister of mags. Robbery: political marketing. It's the only non-state profile. It is now a coalition, or three parties have literally summarized the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal by writing it down differently. The contents are exactly the same. And I'm wondering if that's really state-of-the-art. When we, the Slovenian People's Party, argued a little further, in view of the fundamental record of the state of the public finance minister this time, we were misunderstood in such a good coalition and from the position of Minister of Finance Dr. Marble's determination to make a few more rules and order in public financial terms. I'm asking you today: Is this state-of-the-art? What, Mr. Finance Minister Dr. Marble, has happened to you as a person whom, at least we in the Slovenian People's Party, have been betting on? Aren't you yesterday's Marble, from yesterday's coalition, which was a few days ago? Is it even possible to expect that from one professor? Not from the professor that we wouldn't think, Dr. Marble, that I'm insulting you, but did we take you seriously and expect something for the good of this country? To be sure, the Slovenian People's Party will, of course, support this amendment of the three parliamentary groups. I wonder if this is really a policy that Prime Minister Rob tells him that the LDS is responsible for this country, he is responsible to this country, and his policy is state-of-the-art. The Slovenian People's Party will support this amendment, even though we are aware of what this amendment means for state finances and where Dr. Marble will find not 15 billion, as was the starting point of the proposal for an amended bill from the Committee, but a new minimum of 10 billion. That's a total of 25 billion. And you know it's gonna be even more ironic. As much as I know family policy through the committee I run, I realize that this high degree of relief is probably not a wise solution. Much wiser from the budget with a single annual subsidy than in terms of support for high families, enter with an additional amount. For public finances, much wiser, much wiser. And besides, I ask myself, the one who said earlier, Mr Pucko, that this is within the framework of concern for increasing birthrates or fertility - what a depravity! A little while ago, these Members said that we would not increase our fertility, for which there were many other reasons, and indeed so. I say this, too, that it is the state policy that will have to determine where the real foundations are, why young married couples find it difficult to decide for more children. I firmly believe that the issue of income relief in this context is a very small element. Therefore, today's accession through the amendments of the three parliamentary groups is for me the complete transfer and irresponsibility to public finances and the irresponsibility of a state-of-the-art policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u225	There's a lot of people registered, almost ten, and we'll go straight. Comrade Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the magnetogram and for the public, it should be clear that Nova Slovenija has also tabled such an amendment, together with the Slovenian Democratic Party, and also for the first child's benefits, we have tabled together. Otherwise, I would just like to explain that I am happy, I welcome the fact that there has been a political consensus around - or at least to be created, we will see what the vote will be like - it seems that there is a political consensus on this issue of additions, as far as the number of families are concerned. I would like to tell him the following about my colleague Brenčič's comments. Of course, I do not know what arguments have been used in rooms of large and small, large coalitions, because, as you know, Nova Slovenija is not part of this coalition, has never been and does not want to go to any such coalition. However, the fact is that on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Ministry of Finance and, if I am not mistaken, under the Minister, when Mr. Puck, the chairman of the committee at the time, responded to the cost of state finances, such amendments, the Minister said that the initiative that came from the so-called Family Initiative, of this society, would cost some over 800 million, if I am not mistaken, with the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy 260, with what New Slovenia proposed, some over 5 billion, between 4.5 and 5. So, there's a lot of data. Finally, we need to be aware of one thing. We are currently debating and adopting a law on income, which should be the basis for a responsible fiscal policy, also on issues such as our demographic tragedy, the Slovenian people. So if this helps - as you know, I have also discussed this matter already and also raised a question to the Prime Minister - I am well aware that, at least during the period when I was a father, I did not look at the hour, and I did not go to see the law when my wife and I decided that we would have children. But surely this affects, as far as it creates a better atmosphere, this is only one step, and not in a constructive, positive sense, the step is only to avoid making the situation worse, as it has been suggested, but to keep it, so I welcome the political consensus that is emerging. I hope we can vote on this too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. In my first reading, I myself proposed that the initiative be re-examined so that a somehow progressive scale for families with multiple children can be implemented. That's why I'm here now. I'm glad that's true. However, I do not think that there is any political perversion, if we have now proposed, but it is obedience to arguments. And I'm glad to be in a client who has a hearing for argument. But I think it's politically reversed that now that we're actually agreeing on it, we're arguing about who's going to propose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Of course I'll support this amendment. I find this discussion strange by the chairman of the committee, on which behalf it is also social. I don't think families are gonna care what party they're proposing, just that there's gonna be something good. As far as they're concerned, they've changed their attitude to that, I think they've come to their senses.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I would just tell Mr Brenčič, but I don't intend to question him because I've used a very clear dictatorship. I hope so, and that was the red thread of all arguments. For such reliefs it was that this could also be part of a demographic policy to increase fertility in the Republic of Slovenia. And that's exactly what I said and nothing else. And if this is a perversion for you, then the concept of perversion, Mrs. Potts, can also be understood differently. Perhaps we will look at each other for what this term means in Slovenian spelling.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u234	It seems obvious that we will be caught up in a series of explanations, who thought more honestly, who wanted more to contribute to the more equitable distribution of things in this country, as far as incentives are concerned, as well as the burden that all groups of people on the one hand could enjoy the status they are in, as well as that contributions to the state budget are relatively equal in terms of their abilities. And that's actually hard work. And I have to say that it was not easy for me, even when we decided, for the second time, oh, let's say a changed approach, because the first proposal was still different from the one in the amended bill. For it is clear that it is only by means of relief that it is not possible to respond in a dignified or appropriate way to a better position. For I imagine that I know the information that was available, that no matter how great these reliefs are, or as a percentage or in money, the question is, at the end of the day, whether these reliefs can and will happen. And, therefore, we really want to make a contribution to, as it is called, better demographic policy, better fertility and so on in this area. We have a series of things arranged in other laws, but in the end it is necessary to decide on a model, for a certain approach, and it was not the prime minister's idea and his thought was great. And I believe he's not happy about it either when this amendment came to pass, but that's, you can believe, and I'm happy if you take your share of the credit for what he's done. But it's not going in the right direction of discussion, if it's said, you did it just because you wanted to screw us up because we did something good before, and to get some points. Never before, and I've been in this policy for quite a few years, has it? Not that you left the coalition before the elections, but you said that now you realized how much better it was, how better to handle things, how better it was, how better it was that someone said it, but now I'm going to give some group of citizens, or, I don't know, a road or some kind of relief or whatever. This is not what is being paid in elections, and I have never signed and invested anything like this before. And I think it's best that it's a principle policy and that they're just looking for solutions about things. Solutions that are acceptable, as I said at the outset, for the widest circle of the population. And that's what it takes to do with income. On the one hand, to cover all that needs to be covered and, on the other hand, to make it easier for those who cannot or would like to encourage a matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I would like to replicate Mr Podobnik in the implementation of Mr Anderlich. Before I give him my word, allow me to introduce you, in the order of order, you have been reported to the debate Mr Minister, Mr Drobnic, Mr Brenčič, Mr Vukko and Mr Rokavec. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] A replica of who? [[...]] Butolene. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Mr. Brenčič, please. [[...]] A replica of Mr. Butolen, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Look, buddy Butolen. Today, all of a sudden, there were arguments that were present all the time during the adoption or birth of this new law by 5% of the progressive scale. There were no arguments when, in the then coalition, the Slovenian People's Party in principle, Mr Anderlic, advocated 2.5%, and even from a smaller base. And there was no argument on the question of demographic imagery. Our country today, Mr Anderlič, from the policy of principle, your policy of principle, is suddenly this argument. A few months ago, when there was a strong smaller percentage, there were no such arguments. Is that a principled policy? If you consider this to be a principled policy, God help you! And I wish you every success in the Slovenian electoral space. However, since I speak, I would like the Minister's reply on how he will make up for this failure, and of course also on Mrs Kolarjeva, who has so strongly advocated that there is no argument for any overcompensation on any future child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u237	Thank you very much. As soon as we exhaust the replicas, Mr. Minister will have the floor. Mr Anderlič has a replica to implement, and then Mr Anderlič has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! A few months before the elections, the Slovenian People's Party did not withdraw from the coalition, but was excluded from it. That's what I'd like to say in this place, without all the bitterness. But that was the real fact - we were excluded from the government coalition. Nevertheless, I am pleased with today's debates, today's debates, today's competition, who will give more. In a few years, it will not be known that the Slovenian People's Party has been expelled from the government, but will be the result of this amendment, this excellent amendment for Slovenian families. My colleagues were direct. My friend Brenčič has a habit of saying, as he thinks, and that what he says is true. I will only say this: your amendment is good for Slovenian families and will get my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u239	Thank you very much. And just one more replica, Mr Anderlich, to implement Mr Brenčič. Please, please, please, please, please, I give Mr Anderlic a word for the replica for the implementation of Mr Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u240	I don't think these were replicas, because I didn't mention Mr Brenčič or Mr Spokonik, but I was thinking mainly of the United List, 10 years or 8 years ago, but of each other, before the year 2000. So that we don't need controversy at this level right now. I was talking about how it works when we're talking about principle and what someone wants. As far as I am concerned, the principle is that I would like to settle a question as at this point a consensus can be reached, which is very difficult, or at least a compromise, which brings one more vote than is necessary to reject. And it is in principle that this country needs a new income law that we are doing here and we are trying to capture all the solutions for all areas. We have had better and worse solutions for athletes and we have better or worse solutions for cultural people. But the principle is that we try to settle this so that for all groups this law will be acceptable to the extent that it will not either sink them or they will be able to go out without paying what they have to pay, only that is in principle. But the rest is where we're going to meet with some sort of solution, and that's the question. And I would also like to say that, of course, I say that this law or this arrangement may be too favourable to those who really have extraordinary income and will have even greater relief and perhaps this would not be necessary to have them. And another is how to make this system take over all these things. And we thought that was the best we could do. However, I believe that the problem will be in the coming year, how to draw up a budget or a budget is just made, how it will need to be changed, in order to make things "stamp". But this is the job that's coming in for the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm gonna have to get used to it. It looks like I'm in Parliament and someone's gonna set you up. You said we supported this amendment number two, I didn't even have a word, Mr Brenčič. So now I'm saying that we don't oppose amendment number two, which is the same as amendment number four. But we are opposed to two amendments, first and third, to yours, which you are defending, which is worth two billion dollars, as I said. When you ask me what the budget will be like, you propose an amendment that is harder. At the same time, the first SDS amendment is 16 billion tolls off and, of course, I can't, that's true, I have to oppose him. That's the first thing. The second thing I'd like to say is this amendment number two is 938 million tolars of income. And together with the corrections that have already been made in previous amendments, we now have about 9.6 billion over what was the government's proposal. So we came from 15 billion with changes made to 9.6 billion tolars. And that is all I would like to say in this regard directly. Of course, these differences, which will arise from the 2005 income, will need to be addressed by amending the 2005 budget and for the following years. To the extent that these amendments brought by the amendments exceed the scope of the allowances and, of course, they will represent a lower income collected in 2005, as planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, it does not matter what the reasons led to this shift that the Liberal Democracy and its two partners offered a solution that we had already offered in the beginning. Either it's a breakup of a coalition party or it's a problem of falling popularity. The fact is that there will be a progressive scale, as well as there will be no deterioration of the situation, because this is also necessary for demographic policy, but that is not enough. I don't mean to say that there's probably another client out there, and we're gonna have a better marriage. For example, if one party goes out and we have a pension law right, we have a valorisation right, which is the problem, as we have already mentioned. In fact, there are other issues that we will have to resolve. Slovenian families have lost their tax on, large families buying cars, and there would be a lot more, and probably some general affection in society and emphasis on these values, which will certainly help to improve the demographic situation. If we want to stand up in this Europe, at least we will have to keep our situation, not make it worse, as it is now. I am glad that the movement took place in the ruling coalition, the one that remains now, and the movement with Minister Marble. So, we will, and I will support this other amendment myself. We made such a decision all the time; even when Puck’s law was introduced, which was not followed, we made it clear. But now you've made a different choice. You did not make any specific arguments, but this is not really that important right now, since people know how individuals or customers act.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u246	Although I spoke to the president, he obviously missed me. I must say, the debate, my colleague Brenčič, encouraged me to take this call. He thus took this role quickly in the role of a Member of the post, and I think he took this role quite seriously. I'd say from a gentle kitten in the night, he turned into a real lion. In his debate, he first attacked colleague Puck, who cannot be a motion for an amendment under the Rules of Procedure at all, but is the amendment's proposer, if I am not mistaken, more parties. Then, in his debate, there was the whole history, although I listened attentively to the whole history of this story and accused the current minister, the former Minister of Finance. If this isn't the real performance of the opposition, I congratulate him. But when he said and talked about depravity, I think it's inappropriate. Now, on the basis of the warnings, I remember the above-mentioned "mails", then also on the committee was argued by a representative of civil society, that is, the Family Initiative, and when we started talking inside of this, how would a solution be made compromised by the leader of the parliamentary group, and we were confronted with perversion, unstatedness. Come on, Brenčič, I think colleague Anderlich has told you well. Pucko also told you about his demographic policy. I hope that helps, too. Let's give it time. But from your debate, I had a feeling that you were so insulted because it wasn't now. And here, Comrade Bajuk was very correct, the solution is good, I will support it and be healthy. Now let's talk about whether we need to withdraw the amendment so that we don't become unstated and we don't get turned around. No, I think it's a good solution and it's based on discussion, warnings from civil society and so on. That's why I have no problem with this amendment. But in the end, we could make one point. If he proposes SLS, it's state-of-the-art, if he's proposing someone else, it's not state-of-the-art. I'm sorry, colleague Brenčič, but I haven't had a chance to get to know you before the opposition MP.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u247	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Rokavac, then there are the grandchildren, Brenčič, Visjak. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. I think that the debate and adoption of amendments on income shows quality progress in Slovenian policy and also in this Chamber. The real competitiveness of ideas, of ideas where it is actually necessary to deal with specific issues that actually concern a certain part of our citizens and citizens. A typical example is, of course, because it focuses on almost all of our citizens and citizens, the area of the family. And I am very pleased that your colleagues from the current new coalition have tabled this amendment, and I will gladly support it, and I will gladly support it. It also points to something that the People’s Party, for example, was once seen to have given a new attitude in view of the previous fact that there is now knowledge in the new coalition. I am really looking forward to this new situation, and I am sure it will contribute to good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. We will support all four amendments, and then as soon as it is accepted, it will be. But what I'd like to say is that I'm disturbed by the Minister's words when it comes to a very important amendment. And nothing helps us not to enter NATO or into the European Community, not all the laws that we have adopted if we do not solve the underlying problem, is said to break this negative demographic policy. And here, I'm going to say, like the words of one other law, there's no price. And we advocate that there is no price in this matter, and therefore there must be no weight, as to how many billions the amendment costs. I mean, it's a very small cost to everyone else if we don't solve this problem. I'm not going to argue any further because someone could have accused me of something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Brenčič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I really want to say that I am neither a hotel nor a minister, nor, in this case, a government that is represented by its co-workers, to throw something away or to plant something. I have understood in all the decisions and discussions so far on the amendments made by the government representative's announcement that the government supports the amendments of the three parliamentary groups. I may have understood this "all amendments", so I apologize to the Minister, although he is not present, if I have misunderstood, and that is why I may have misinterpreted you. But this is what I'm trying to say. If, Mr. Wolf, you take the magnetogram of Comrade Puck, you will well see that the amendment has been explained on behalf of, not his own, but he has represented the amendment. Then who am I going to turn to like that? And Mr. Wolf, sometimes, simplistically, we used a saying, some river that was in force: If you step on a cat's tail, it's a sublime.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Last submitted to the debate, Mr. Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u254	I'm sorry, but I would be very happy if I had been a respected minister here, because for the first time, I would like to say that when he spoke about the amendment that raises this annual tax relief for the first child, and talked in particular about the financial consequences, he did not talk about the content and in connection with the decision of the Constitutional Court. For the Constitutional Court's decision has made this matter very clear, namely that this tax relief must be identical or that it must follow the minimum cost of living associated with the child. Of course, we need to talk here about arguments around a number, not about what this number means for the country's finances. And I think it would be necessary, from this point of view, then not least, to argue why the amount that we are proposing, which has such financial consequences as it has, is not acceptable, that is to say from a substantive point of view, not so much from the financial consequences. Second, with regard to this progressive scale for other children, that is to say the second, third, and so on. If I understood the Minister correctly, it was somehow possible to understand that he was opposed to an amendment that raised progressiveity. I have here a letter from the Family Initiative stating that an agreement has been reached with the Ministry of Finance. And I wonder if that's true, that's what it says, whether it's going to support and whether the government supports that for another child, tax relief is going to be measured at 41.300 and then for each of the next 172.000. I don't know how much, and I'm asking the Minister whether this amendment deviates from what we last proposed in the fourth amendment to Article 109 of the two parliamentary groups. Among the other amendments to Article 109 - for I say, I see no other amendment from the review, I do not know if anyone else has arrived at this time, and I ask you whether you support the amendment of the Slovenian Coalition to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that. Apologies to Mr. Vissiak! You really asked that question and I forgot to answer that question how we set this limit for the first child in accordance with what the Constitutional Court ordered. The Social Protection Act determines the amount of minimum income and in accordance with the research done by Nada Stropnik and Tina Stanovnik with the Institute of Economic Research, and a foreign professor, Bernard Schultey, participated. [[?]] they have determined that the amount of the child benefit is set at the minimum cost of living for a child over 15 years of age who is 80 % of the minimum income for an adult. And now what is the minimum income for an adult, but we do have a social protection law, as I said. So according to 2002 figures, the minimum cost for a child was 32,479 tolars per month, or if we multiply it by 12, we have 389,750 tolars per year. By way of calculation of the share of the average wage of employees in Slovenia in 2002, this was 13.8% of the average wage. Then we predicted what the average salary would be in 2005, with certain indices, and then we took 13.8% of the average wage in 2005. This was the basis for answering this part of the question. I repeat, we do not object, I did not say we oppose, but I said we do not oppose this amendment, which is given under number 2. I have already said before, and I apologize, I will reiterate that the fourth amendment does not give up and is substantively the same as the second amendment. However, I apologize when I spoke about the SDS and NSI amendment, which is the first amendment - this first amendment has 16 billion tolar consequences. While the fourth one is the same as the other, I apologize for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u257	Thank you very much. First Mr Bajuk, then Mr Vizjak and also Mr Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I'm sure all my colleagues will remember that a few months ago I raised this question to the Prime Minister, who was connected to our demographic policy or the government's position on all of this. In his reply, he has, as always, disqualified principles and personal qualifications, since you do not know the wines, but he referred to the same study that Mr Minister is now referring to. This is a study made by Dr. Jože Stanovnik and Dr. Nada Stropnik. In this analysis - I admit that I have not read the whole analysis, but I do know and read an interview that Dr. Nada Stropnik had in one of the articles in Del where she explained that these analyses do not really take into account the total expenditure that parents have, but only some, not long-term. Thus, the author herself of this study, to whom you refer, admitted that not all expenditure is actually included in this analysis, but not in the long term expenditure. So, Mr. Minister, I would like to explain whether, after we discussed this matter in this National Assembly, and also to announce to the Prime Minister that we will have a debate on this matter and that this debate will also show whether or not to clarify or further clarify the views of both, or whether you would have mentioned again this analysis by Dr. Joseph Stanovnik and Dr. Nada Spodnik, did you then correct it and whether you included in your accounts the long-term costs of parents with children? This is very important. Because this amendment, which we have tabled together with the SDS, is the answer to this question. Because that's what we're worried about, and not yesterday, but for a long time, because we don't know if you're really doing what was the Constitutional Court's decision on this. Thank you very much. Besides our proposal, this proposal and this amendment are not based on this analysis, but, as my colleague Vizjak has mentioned, it is based on the costs already recognised by the law today, as regards the issue of parenting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, before I give you my word, Mr Vizjak and Mr Brenčič have been reported, and then perhaps you. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u260	Thank you very much. It's true, I mean, I'm sorry to repeat myself, but anyway. I really don't understand how a study that we don't regret is accessible to us - I don't know how Members would get it, but it might be easier to read it, and I would probably also read the conclusions that Mr Bajuk has mentioned that maybe this is not all the minimum cost of living. How can such different figures be found in legislation? So you're saying that revalued back to 2004, because this figure is probably already timed to enforce the law, looking back, so this minimum cost for the first child would be about 35,000 tolars, if I understand. By calculating this with an inflation factor and over 12 months, we get about this amount in the proposal. At the same time, it is a law that speaks of minimum costs for a minor, material minimum, and I am not talking about others, and it says that it is 54,000 tolars per year. It's in the marriage. And a decision has been published. This is said to mean that for a foster child, the minimum material costs are clearly higher than for the first maintenance child. Where's the logic, Minister? I don't know. I don't know. That's one. Second. I don't know. I'm the father of three kids, and I can't imagine that I could have that much cost with one dependent child. I know that with three of these costs, there is more. And if we came out of this number, maybe that's true for the norms that were in place, and the standards, 50 years ago, when it was important that the kid wasn't, I'd say, really thin, but not naked that he wasn't barefoot. It's not like it's too cloudy. Then I guess that'll just stay kind of, you know, substantively. Today, when we must probably do something for the child also in terms of the advancement of his intellect, education and other urgent things, if we want a good future for him, of course it is difficult to argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Only if I understand you correctly, does the Government of the Second Amendment to Article 109 or this amendment object. Then I take my apology back and tell you that I didn't frame you for anything in my performance. And everything I've said is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u264	Thank you. With regard to the question of this article, which was published and regarding the statement made by Dr Nada Strotnik, I would simply read you what this constitutional decision says. It says, "unless it exempts entirely from taxation of those amounts," that is to say, it refers to this being wrong, "which the parent must devote to the survival of his child in order to ensure the minimum of living." That's the first thing written down. So it's a minimum of life. The second, which is a very important part, "with regard to the mere possibility of creating an exemption from taxation, the Constitutional Court was of the view that it could not be exempted from taxation of all expenditure incurred by any parent with a child, since this would be largely unjustified, could not be monitored and would lead to a avoidance of contributions to the common needs". That's the second part that brought it up. And the third part, which deals with foster parents, says: "Because breeding is an essentially different institution from parenting or family, it is also unable to hold the position and the suggestion of an incentive that both categories should be completely equal in solving the issue." That's what the Constitutional Court ruling says.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u266	That's what I know, very well, and we're not comparing the livestock with that, we're comparing the material costs as part of the livestock. Because, in addition to material costs, there is also a refund for a foster parent. We're only talking about material costs. And the material costs for a child in a breed, we do not see the logic that they are different from the material costs for a child who is with his parents. We're talking about the material costs, not the livestock, the well-respected minister, that's a big difference. And the livestock is even more than 25,000 tolars higher than the material costs for the foster mother, that's about 70,000 tolars together, or 54,000 plus 25,000, something like that. That's not what we're comparing, we're comparing the material costs of a child in foster care. And you didn't explain to me here what the difference is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I apologize, Mr Minister, but in any way I would just like you to explain, perhaps you are, but I wasn't paying attention if I wasn't paying attention to myself. Whether the study of Dr. Stanovnik and Mrs. Stropnik is really the basis for your position or not. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u270	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Then, on the basis of the statements made by Dr. Spodnik, we need to assess, we can't help but estimate that your starting point is actually too low. Because this analysis, which they did, does not include the long-term cost of parenting. Well, then the answer is clear, I got you. The proposal you are defending is not in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision that this supplement should cover these costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I think I can close the debate. Can I? I am therefore concluding the debate and moving on to a decision. May I have your attention, please? We will first vote on the amendment under number 1, this is the SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I think there's enough of us in the hall. Secondly, we will vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 109. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. Vote explanation, Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u274	I will vote in favour of this amendment, and because I believe that this amendment is the answer to all those allegations and concerns that the coalition is not functioning in a state-of-the-art way, it does not work consistently to adapt its policy to the daily needs. I also count that this will be an answer to all those who wrote daily letters expecting a more favourable solution in the field governed by this Article, i.e. when it comes to relief for dependent children. I will vote in favour of this amendment, even though Mr Rokavec has announced that he will support the coalition, which he has failed many times in three years. And now, of course, I might ask myself, is there something wrong with this amendment? I will not ask myself, I will vote in favour and Mr Rokavec, better late than never.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u276	I am pleased that, after, of course, the LDS had a negative position on this proposal, it finally came to the realization that this is right and, of course, this amendment, regardless of its kind, will be supported, because it is identical to our amendment. But it reminds me of how you act when you first get a slap, and then someone gives you a hand because he's sorry. That's what you say, first you categorically reject one human structure and then you give them a candy bar at the end and you say you're principled. That's a very interesting thing to do. And we don't do that in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But I'm glad that at least the candy's in the end, it's not just a slap.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u278	Thank you very much. There is no doubt about what I will do, given that we know how the Slovenian People's Party has always acted in favour of progressive reliefs for children, even when the daily need was the same as it is now. And it would be very strange that, as a Human Party, we would change our autonomous attitude, a principled attitude through the entire scope of the adoption and birth of this law. And I think that's what my fellow Members of the Slovenian People's Party will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u280	Thank you very much. I will support the proposed amendment. First of all, because with this support I will also give credit to some colleagues within our parliamentary group, especially experts who have been working for the last six months to make a change in the Income Act a contribution to family policy in Slovenia. That's the first argument. However, the second argument is that this amendment is a classic amendment born in political conditions, in politics, in parliament, because it is good for the Slovenian family and as I have already said, because, on the basis of this amendment, in the coming years, there will be no doubt that families, those who have more children and also those who have such high incomes will have better conditions, of course, on the basis of this amendment for their children. This, in my view, will be a positive incentive and, as a Slovenian policy, will receive all the pluss that this amendment will adopt today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u282	Thank you for this opportunity to explain my voice. I'd be happy to support this amendment. I have also supported in the past and will also support in the future all the amendments and proposals that will come from our opposition species or from your positions, all those amendments that will be good for the country. And I'd be happy to press for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u284	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, we will support this amendment. In fact, it is similar if not literally the same in its base, as proposed by Nova Slovenija. However, I am convinced that if someone is concerned with this, what thanks, I would say, or the fact that there is only a political consensus in this matter is the perseverance of the Family Initiative. I think this is a positive step for our civil society, and I am most happy about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Kebrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the parliamentary group, we will support this amendment, not for political or any other reason, especially because we believe that we have listened to the real life we most experience. On the other hand, we are co-sponsors of this, and it is perfectly logical that we have sought such a solution, for which we see from the statements of the members of the groups that it is acceptable to all and we are grateful that this amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pukšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the context of the general debate on amending the Income Act, the main debate was on this topic. And most of the debates in this direction to change this article by taking into account the progressiveity came from the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia, in short by the opposition. And so far, in a bang, meaning in life, for citizens and citizens always, it has always shown that when the ruling coalition has listened to the good solutions of the opposition, it is good for citizens and citizens. And I am glad that this time too, and I believe that such a solution is good for citizens and citizens. That's why we're going to support him, no matter what it's said to be yours, let him be, thank God you've only come to that knowledge. We'll be happy to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Groschel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. For the first time, I must mention that I am extremely pleased that we have allowed ourselves to have a general debate, that there is a normal procedure around this Income Act and that we have come to the conclusion that, if there is such a debate, there can be a change. In fact, after the amendments tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, their amendment would result in an additional revenue shortfall of two billion. If we look at the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups and New Slovenia's, it's going to be 4.5 billion to five. Of course, taking into account the amendments that were, of course, a good billion by the Family Initiative initiative. And today, together, we have found that the proposed amendment is very appropriate, which, of course, was also a 268 million income drop. Therefore, for the first time, I will gladly support this amendment and, lastly, thank you very much for bringing us together in this final part of this article or amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Mr. Petty Officer, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u292	I'll vote for this amendment, too. It is good that, after a long time, fellow Members of Parliament have overlooked the need to adopt such a provision after two years. With regard to the billions that are, you know, Mr Grošelj, it is an outage, that is, as a vessel, if you are talking about a budget outage, if there is no such thing, then it is an outflow from the pockets of taxpayers or citizens or families that have children. That's their outing, though. It all depends on the way you look, and for a long time you've been looking at it in this direction, falling out of their pocket and going somewhere else. I hope that the exit from the pockets will go to those who set up Forum 21 to the same extent as other citizens, so I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u293	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We vote on the amendment under order number 2, with a footnote, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment remains in order number three and four irrelevant. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted and the amendments under three and four have become irrelevant. May I have your attention, please? I am opening the debate on Article 113 and on the five amendments to this Article. Under one is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, under two of the same motions, under three SDS and New Slovenia parliamentary groups, which has been corrected, the correction is on the table. Under four, the amendment of the three coalition groups and under five, the amendment of the New Slovenia and SDS parliamentary groups and the same candidates under six. With two warnings to the amendments under two and four: If an amendment under two is accepted, the amendment under point three will be irrelevant. A warning in the amendment under four, if the amendment under four is accepted, the amendment under five will be irrelevant. So, I am opening a debate on the six amendments and 113th. Who wants a word? Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u294	Thank you for your word. Since I'm in favour of two amendments, I'd say first I'm not wasting my time and that's the same explanation as I said at 101. As for the second amendment, I think it is a very important amendment, at least to address the housing problem of young families and all those who have this problem. We have summarized this amendment by example of a solution, as the German legislation knows. The difference is that the German legislation knows and saves such a solution, specifically in nominal amounts, and we have submitted ourselves here to our mode of relief, as a percentage. So let's propose and I'll just read: "The amounts paid for the purchase and construction or rental of an apartment house or apartment for the purpose of solving the debtor's housing problem, for the maintenance of an apartment or apartment house or for the restoration of architectural and communication barriers in those facilities where the debtor actually resides. As a means used for the purchase or construction of goods, the sum of the annuity referred to in the terms of assigned credits or leasing of contracts shall also be considered." And, at the end of the second paragraph, the point is replaced by a comma and is added: "except for the purposes of this fifth point where the annual taxable base is reduced by a maximum of 10%". This is a solution where, for these purposes, which I have previously counted, the current one can be facilitated by an increase of 3% to a maximum of 10%. We believe that, given that these are solutions that the leading European countries know, we should not have problems with such a solution. However, this would also solve the problems we know in our society in the long term, which young families face daily, since this amendment is primarily intended for those who today have heard a lot of small wages. Even with a small salary, we could arrange our own housing problems. Of course, the amendment is not intended for those who, besides regular salary, also have a lot of copyright fees, not to mention two, three salaries. That's why it's too bad there's no minister to listen now and not be vehemently against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u296	Thank you very much. I would explain the two amendments of the Slovenian Coalition, as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party, to Article 113, paragraph 1, and, of course, to the second paragraph. With point 8, we want to establish that tax reliefs would also be recognised for education payments, in addition to their own needs, of course for the needs of children. This means that if, for example, parents bought textbooks for their children, or even school fees, the purchase of textbooks and professional literature, this would, of course, be recognized as tax relief, not only for the debtor, but also for his child as a dependent member of the family. I think that this is entirely and justifiable and, finally, necessary. That's one thing. The second thing to do here is to connect to Article 109. The textbooks and these things that parents pay for children, of course, are not included under the minimum cost of living and are not the subject of the relief that we have discussed before, although I think it is necessary to arrange this already there, but of course we are not. Even that amount was reduced according to material costs, but anyway; so I think there might be an opportunity here to correct a mistake. However, the second amendment would of course present an amendment to implement the so far 3% individual relief for various purposes, as we consider the reduction to 2% individual relief to be too low. By reducing from 3 to 2, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would make the income situation particularly worse for those employees with secondary and higher education who derive most of the income from work and, of course, not least have this 3% individual relief to spend. I also believe that the basic purpose before the time of this individual relief, even when we are talking about, say, payment, Article 113, paragraph 6, in view of the payment of housing maintenance amounts, was also very important as regards the destimulation of the grey economy. For if someone collected bills for maintenance of the apartment and then applied them as an individual tax relief, they eventually claimed from those craftsmen accounts, which had a positive impact on the management of the services and consequently reduced the scope of the grey economy. I think that was a good move back then. Now we're reducing it, raising it in general. This, of course, has a beneficial effect on these low-income classes, but it also has some of the bad effects that I have been talking about. Therefore, we propose to raise these individual reliefs from 2% to 3%. Finally, this will also help to achieve a whole range of purposes for which these tax reliefs can be used, such as purchases of works of art, beauty, audio-video content and so on. In short, raising this relief will also have a positive impact on these activities, which are needed support and some assistance; it is also said that culture and, of course, as I mentioned earlier, education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please, then Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u298	I would like to discuss the first amendment to Article 113 of the Income Act, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. Intention, I see the purpose somehow makes sense, but if you look at the dictatorship, this amendment is unnecessary, I think. Why? Because of the provision of exemptions from paid voluntary cash contributions for humanitarian, charitable and cultural - for these purposes. And if there are disabled organizations in the back, then it's a charity and a humanitarian purpose and it's already being fulfilled. Because a disability purpose could be a "disability" purpose; I think it might even malfunction. Because the purpose can be charitable, humanitarian, and under these conditions, if you give it to someone, it is appropriate. The purpose of disability is a question. Then the third amendment we tabled relates to the amounts paid for the purchase or construction of housing or housing and the amounts paid for the payment of housing loans obtained to solve the housing problem of the debtors. This was submitted by Nova Slovenija in cooperation with the Slovenian Democratic Party. The aim is clear, therefore, to encourage the resolution of the housing problems of young families and others. It is also important to touch the sixth amendment, where the government proposes to reduce this volume of relief from 3% to 2%. I don't know what led you. I have repeatedly stressed that we should actually open this up, in order to enable citizens to be able to fund themselves some charitable, voluntary, civil, trade union, political organisations and more in order to establish an appropriate basis for the development of civil society. You are reducing it, which means that civil society will also become increasingly dependent on the state. This is not the right course, especially given that you have taken a step backwards in the corporate income tax law, so that even legal persons, if they are earmarked for charitable, voluntary humanitarian organisations, are to a lesser extent exempt or to a smaller limit, are more limited. It's the wrong direction. For God's sake, let us let businesses, economic societies, spend money on these activities. This has a good effect on the mitigation of social consequences, I am talking about the corporate income tax. But this is where you're going in the same direction. Also in the case of natural persons who touch the law on income. But both of you went back to reducing. This is S 3 to 2%, and that's from 0.2 to 0.1. We could follow other countries and see that where they feel the need and find that civil society should be strengthened, this non-governmental sector is decided on a higher level. Therefore, at least the preservation of the support provided by the sixth amendment, which we have tabled in Novi Slovenije, together with the Slovenian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u299	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Puck's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll discuss the amendment under number six. Especially since we have just heard this relief decrease by two percent from three percent. But respectable colleagues who have discussed this do not read the following paragraph, which provides for a new relief of two percent. So this is a relief equal to two plus two percent plus a higher general relief. This brings us closer to the relief we had at the beginning of the first income law, in 1991, when this was 5 percent. I think so, but it's a hoax. I could use another word, but I won't. Because you just can't be so incorrigible and read only what you like. Read two percent, and say, thank God, we have come to four percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, Mrs. Kolar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Somehow I don't understand the first amendment very well. The applicant shall refer to the third point of paragraph 1. But in this paragraph, somehow I don't see the sense of the involvement of disabled organisations - or I find this in paragraph 4. There is, of course, a phrase "paid to disabled organisations" in the last sentence, of course under the regular reference. In this case, is this also the case with regard to these voluntary monetary contributions and the value of gifts in nature, such as for humanitarian organisations, that this is treated equally for disabled organisations in this last subordinate sentence? If so, then I believe that the amendment under number one is somehow irrelevant. But I'd like us to find out. Because in the third point of paragraph 1, we do not define and regulate this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u303	Thank you very much. For the implementation of Mr Puck, they wanted a motion for amendments to the replica. First Mr. Vizjak, then Mr. Brenčič. It's a trifle. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u304	Thank you very much. I've got the material. Now, I don't know if we're looking at the same material. I have the material for the second reading of the Income Act, where, of course, the first paragraph of Article 113 lists all possible tax reliefs and then the second paragraph says that the reduced annual tax base for the purposes of two to nine may be reduced by a maximum of two per cent of the annual taxable base of the taxpayer, and the third paragraph says that for interest on housing loans excluded from there, the annual tax rate of the resident taxpayer is reduced by the paid interest on loans obtained to solve the housing problem, but not more than two per cent. For under the fifth point they are excluded, except the interest paid on the loans. That means, I don't know where the four are now individual relief. And my, I would say, the basic comment was this: indeed, net earnings will be positive for people, because there is a rise in general tax relief and a decrease in individual tax relief, which gives a cumulative positive effect, this is a fact that we all know. However, I stressed the importance of individual tax relief, not least for the reasons I mentioned. And I've been specifically talking here about the amount to buy tuition, to buy textbooks, professional literature and the like. Finally, for development and paid amounts [[?]] For the purchase of works of art, finesse. I also mentioned the amounts paid to maintain the apartment, which has a positive impact not least on us to collect accounts when we order these works and thus perhaps contribute to the reduction of the grey economy. I think there will be negative effects here on this reduction of individual tax relief. For the textbooks, the works of art are paid by the people who are beside you, who have so much money to buy it. And it would be good to maintain this individual tax relief. And that's why we're proposing an amendment. So, I just want to explain my implementation so much that I know that net earnings will be positive with regard to tax reliefs. I am aware of this - and this is the fact from this - that individual tax relief will be lower.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u306	I'm not going to repeat what Visjak is, but I'm going to add this -- so two percent is tied to point two to point nine. And I have focused this debate on the issue of non-governmental organisations, which, in fact, with this overall scope - because it is not, because others are also intended - in fact, it devotes less to them, thus indirectly also making less use of it because there is less space. There's less room. Of course! It used to be 3%, now it's 2%. And if we wanted to make a substantial amount of money, we should at least keep the same here, but we should keep the same tax on legal persons. And then this case would be consistent. Then we would keep for these purposes, which I have mentioned to you regarding civil society, NGOs to live with these reliefs directly by citizens or legal persons, a greater possibility and you are closing. More money is channelled through the budget. The government will share more and less directly with the citizens. This is the purpose of this debate and clarification.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Puck, then Mrs. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u308	Thank you very much. I hope I can read it so that my colleague Vizjak will understand, because I have no doubt that he would not understand. You have already stated that in the second paragraph, 2% of the annual tax relief for the purposes of 1 to 9 is indicated [[background advertising]] Two to nine. And in the fifth indent, point 5, it says "except for interest paid on loans". Exactly, for this purpose alone, an additional 2% relief is intended, which translates into 4% tax relief. That's right. Anyone can enforce it that can prove these purposes; those who cannot prove these purposes cannot claim relief for something that does not belong to this law. And one more thing, Mr. Petty Officer, about the binder. With each article, you would make a few holes in this binder, and then you would tell us, or the government, that this binder does not hold. Hard!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kolar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u310	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I will respond to the proposals of the amendments tabled and start with order number 1 where the word 'disability' is added. The Government's view is that this amendment is not necessary because, as Mr Brenčič has already stated, disability organisations are actually included under order number 4 of this Article. It is said that all voluntary contributions paid, the value of donations for charity, humanitarian and all of the purposes listed in this point, are considered to be within 2% of the personal allowance if they are paid to disabled organisations, especially in the last sentence. This validity and diction of this point is identical to the existing Income Act and also the form. If I am trying to respond to all these amendments, which relate mainly to the care of income relief, in particular in order to address the housing problems of young families and all those who first regulate their housing problem, let me mention that, in fact, special relief is given within this policy and the pursuit of this objective in three places or in Article 72 and in two places in Article 113 for these purposes. Thus, you will find in the supplementary proposal of the law under point 5 that all interest in the national housing savings scheme is also excluded from taxation, unless of course there is an early termination of this savings contract. This is one stimulation, i.e. Article 72, paragraph 5. In the 113th article, as Mr Pucko has now pointed out, we have in fact two points of this relief. We have under point 5, where we say that the exemption is up to 2% of the individual base for all paid amounts for the purchase or construction of the apartment house and so on. However, beyond the limit of 2%, there is a special third paragraph in the supplementary proposal of this Article, where an additional 2% annual tax base is intended to relieve the taxpayer of any interest paid on loans we have paid for the purpose of resolving the housing problem. According to the Government, this allows for a mechanism and instruments to support the resolution of housing problems, either by purchasing from own resources or by exempting the payment of interest from the leased purchase loan to solve the housing problem. Furthermore, let me add that, of course, this 6th amendment is not acceptable to the government, where of course it is - and I think it is dealing with what I have just explained - this amendment under point 6 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. However, the Government supports the amendment under order number 4, where, of course, a relief is added in point 8 when school fees or book purchases are paid for dependent children, or other costs for literature and other education costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak, please, then Mr. Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u312	My friend Pucko warned me here, and I'm asking, is this, like, on purpose, or is this accidentally dropped from 1 to 9 in the second paragraph? Is that, from 2 to 9 actually? Since it seems to me that then there are no limits to the assets invested in securities whose issuer is RS and whose repayment period is longer than 12 months. That's probably a mistake. I mean, I hope there's something else wrong with that. Because I listened to you very well and you said that then the power of this text is to conclude that the annual taxpayer tax rate, which is a resident, is reduced by the interest paid from the loans obtained to solve the obligor's housing problem, to add up to point 5 which means 4. That's not how you can understand it. I'm sorry, this article. That would be another 2% a year, then you'd understand. But it says here; not more than 2%. I'm sorry, whoever reads this can't conclude what Mr. Pucko and you're saying. If we read this: excludes point 5 of the interest because point 5 says that the annual taxable base of the resident resident is reduced by the amounts paid for the purchase and construction of the dwelling house or apartment to solve the debtor's housing problem, except for the interest paid on the loans obtained for the solution. It's called "exception." Then it would have been, if it had been 4 logical, that in point three it was talking about 4%, because for them it was "except" something more. And there's probably a mistake then that there's a 4%, not 2 in Article 113, if you want to sort this out, as you say. Therefore, if it is the wish that the annual taxable base of the taxpayer be reduced by the interest paid on loans of 2+2, then in the third paragraph, instead of the number 2 it should be 4. And it'll be clear and logical, otherwise it's not. Please, Mrs. Kolareva, explain this to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u313	Thank you very much. There are quite a few of you who have been reported to speak. Allow me to give Mrs Kolar the floor first so that this misunderstanding can be clarified. Madam Secretary of State, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u314	Thank you. Look, it is very clear from the dictates of this article. If you look at the second paragraph, it is very clear which points mentioned above are reduced by 2% by the annual taxable base. However, this additional 2% for interest paid is a separate and separate paragraph. So this second paragraph refers to points 1 to 10 within two percent and the third paragraph is separate and refers to an additional 2%, if you want, but to the amount of interest paid for the loans you have hired to purchase and solve the housing problem. The answer to the first question is, in fact, the wording included under the amendment, under order number 4 and it was not intentionally excluded from point 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u315	Thank you very much. No impatience. We'll clear it up. Three more have been reported. Yeah. Maybe they'll talk about the same thing, Mr. Visjak. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Yeah, yeah, but three are still reported. [[...]] Mr. Grandchild, please. Then Mr Pucko, Mr Drobnič, Mr Vizjak, Mr Brenčič. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u316	Thank you for your word. Well, I just want to comment on the second amendment to Article 113. It is not as simple as Mrs Kolareva mentioned that this is being resolved in other amendments. The key component of this amendment is that the taxable base here is a taxpayer - it can also be 10 percent. Now it's all within three percent, which is what we're talking about. And here we propose that for these purposes, for which this amendment speaks, it may be 10%. What's the big difference? This also solves the wrong housing fund policy, which acts wrong, because the housing fund does not solve any problems. On the contrary, it increases prices on the market, which does not build new apartments, but which has picked up existing ones and thus works bear service to all. If we accept this amendment, we could say, in fact, that we do not need a housing fund as such, but the housing fund also had some positive solutions and things that it did. However, the main point is that even those with lower incomes, if they could enforce such a relief, 10% of course, can also afford greater credit and, of course, the solution to their housing problem. That's what this is about. For an increase from 3 to 10%, which is the difference between the others. Nor can we say that this amendment is compatible with the third. They are not excluded because this is essentially different in this dictatorship, as regards the annual taxpayer's tax base and which can be reduced by 10% in our case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please. You don't want another word. Then Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u318	Thank you for your word. Mrs. Kolareva, it's not clear! Some of these errors that are inside the text of course corrects the amendment of the coalition - numbers are renumbered. What I said earlier is that for the majority of people, this relief will be reduced, except for those who will have to pay interest on the loan for the purpose of housing. Now the question is, what percentage of citizens will do this - in one way or another. Only those who may still be able to apply up to 2% and all the rest will be reduced, their limit will be reduced, what is not taxed for these purposes, which are mentioned under points 1 to 10 or - as the text is wrongly written - from 2 to 9, but the amendment must be adopted first in order to keep the text clean. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u320	Now it's only a matter that's clear and that's what I'm saying is that the individual has actually dropped to 2%. It is true, however, that those who have a housing loan and interest which are the subject of point 3 that this is exempt from the quota would be told, but it would be clear. This is said to be an exception to the quota of 2%, the 2% interest rate, and then it can apply 2% for other purposes referred to in points 1 to 9. But we're talking about 2% of the rate, not 2 plus 2, that's interest, that's not included in the quota, that's still 2% individual relief. And once again - I wouldn't repeat the arguments - why we're proposing a raise to 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u322	Thank you very much. I can say: as well as perhaps a little lazily reading dot to point, address and so on, the interpretation of Mrs State Secretary does not sit with me to understand it that way. The article will remain open, open for sure. And it is valid, Madam Secretary of State, as we are supposed to understand in the third reading to write it in, otherwise it will be an open question, I am sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u324	Thank you for your word. I would like to return or touch upon the relief of voluntary financial contributions to humanitarian activities and so on. I think we're talking about something here that's not worth talking about, which is this 2%. Do you know what 2% is? For average Slovenian salary, 2% is 60,000 per year of relief. And if it has a 2nd point and today there are quite a number of congregations, local self-contributions of 2%. Gentlemen, then it's the end of all reliefs, with 2% of the self-contribution. Where, then, is the voluntary supplementary insurance? Whoever pays it with an average wage is already almost reaching a tax relief that is allowed - 2%. Not to talk any further about building an apartment house, solving my own housing problem, buying art, beauty books and so on. And why would you like to draw attention to charitable contributions? This is because each country, especially the developed country, is emerging with an increasing problem of solving social problems. Not because problems would deepen, but because the sense of solving social problems deepens. The country receives or feels the duty of an ever better, more and more quality solution to social problems. The Western world is becoming a socially sensitive world. In this context, our country, this government only approaches solutions through new social contributions or social grants through the principle of social transfer. Other Western countries approach this not through the growth of social transfers, but through the development and promotion of humanitarian organisations If the state is solving the humanitarian problem, this morning we were talking about social care - just one example: if social care is being handled by the state by paying directly or through social transfers, then it is also paying for work. However, if it co-finances or allows the collection of charitable contributions, then the work does not have to be paid, only material costs shall be paid. This is how Germany solves its social problems, and this is how France solves its entire Western world. And of course we with this approach, well, Germany has about 10% of the possibilities for humanitarian tax relief contributions, America 50% and so on. These are numbers worth talking about. With 2% tax relief for everything listed in 1 to 9, it's not worth talking about, gentlemen, it's a waste of time. 2% is nothing, it's no stimulation. One additional health insurance is already in fact in most cases, already exhausting all benefits from the 1 to 9 indents. And as mentioned above, one single contribution paid by him is already exhausted by this quota.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajuk, please, then Mr. Evil.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Madam President. The question of so-called reliefs, I think part of the problem is exactly what we call them - "lighter." This is like some kind of generosity of a country that allows a citizen or a citizen - as some kind of leave. Share our discharges now on the basis of the financial problems in which the country is and, of course, the Minister of Finance and those who are counting on whether or not we will execute by the end of the year, but they suggest that we reduce it from 3% to 2%. It's been almost nothing compared to the world for 3%. As already mentioned by my colleague Tsukati, there are countries that have a completely different approach. But you know, it's not just a quantitative approach. What is at the back of all this is a completely different concept of the state and the state's attitude towards people and from people to the country. The question is whether or not a citizen has the right to direct those funds entrusted to the State for certain purposes in a democratic regime. They are countries that have built on this concept and are still building on this concept. What are we doing? But we will narrow it down even more, and for one third we will reduce the little right that a citizen or a citizen has already had, and we will have even less. What's the result? The result is, of course, that the state treasury will have a slightly different result in the short term, the reliefs will be reduced by one third of this, and perhaps the deficit this year will be slightly smaller because - or next year, as this will actually come into play in 2005. That's the problem. If, of course, we focus only on this and on the short-term financial consequences of such a different approach, we will not be able to address the essential problem. And the key problem is whether the government can apply, the state - and here it is now decided, now, in this room we will now decide, in this Chamber we will decide whether the state will apply fiscal policy for the purposes for which there is a political consensus that they are for the common good, or whether we will continue to insist, as it is obvious so far, that we will continue to insist on this approach, which, for example, in the field of civil society, has certain very specific consequences. The concrete consequence with regard to civil society is that, in fact, we do not have civil society as such, that it is still - I would mark it as a centrally planned civil society because they are all dependent on the state budget. And if you're listening to activists who are actually working in this area - I've listened to them, there was one television show, I think the Target was, on the national level - is one of these gentlemen who works, I think in the health field, he said, at least 50% of my time I spend preparing programs. What has been achieved by this approach of so-called reliefs? Indeed, to condemn those who are willing to take care of the common good, we condemn them to some greater quota of bureaucratic action than is truly necessary. What's the counterweight? If we had a broader chance of people making their own decisions, then we should not have to devote so much money to these things in the budget. Remember, gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, when we discussed the 2005 budget, I was curiously wondering why they increased the civil society line by nearly 12 billion tolars. If we had so much wisdom and actual vision, today we could increase it, create a greater opportunity for citizens and citizens to channel the resources they trust us in a certain direction, while at the same time saving us from the budget so that we do not have to give so much money. Why would Slovenia be anything different than other countries around the world that have already discovered this? Yes, because every time I give a so-called relief for one tolar, that this person, or this citizen, or citizen actually does it, has to add one more. That is to say, we would actually help to expand the operation, but of course we would give up what I fear is still present in the old models of opinion; and this: everything must be under state control. Finally, what is expressed here in this proposal is not the short-term distress of the Minister and his co-workers, but what is expressed is, I would say, some religious hope, confidence that the state must do everything. And this society has already proven that we are able, Slovenians and Slovenians, to work in the area of solidarity without the country being able to register everything as it is right now. Take another look at how many additional funds we have voted for the 2005 budget in the Civil Society line, and you will discover this. We could get rid of this by allowing people to make their own decisions. But that's what we're afraid of! We are afraid because old models of opinion still prevail: only strict trust, not in people. Finally, we wrote that humans are holders of sovereignty and that they are owners of this country. Why can't we make a decision? So I'm going to point two of this article. We have here one inventory of wonderful things with which one or the other political party will behave, what we have done for you see, 32 or 34 points - what you can count all of! But when the moment of truth came and this came last week, when we were all working, some almost midnight were preparing an income statement, a statement of income. What's left of all this? 3%. This is said when the declaration comes, this National Assembly is still open and we include everything we can. But at the moment of truth, we come with big scissors, we cut everything off, so far there's 3% left, and based on your proposal there's only 2. This is the wrong way. Until Slovenia is - and this is the policy in this national assembly - until we face at least this possibility that we too are able to help create a different civil society in order to create a different relationship between the state and people, we will repeat these games. And next time we look at this law again, I hope that soon, I am sure, we will have to review it soon, and how, if you persist in certain solutions, as you have done so far, we will face again one and the same question: there will always be difficulties, but if we do not have a long-term approach unfortunately, we will not create the different Slovenia to which many of us hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr. Evil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u328	Yes, I had no intention of calling back, but when I listened to my colleague Tsukati and you, Mr Bajuk, of course, I could not listen quietly and quietly to the lack of understanding of how the whole world has excellent health care, but not with us. Finally, my colleague was so full of himself that he even set the United States as an example of how things are being resolved at social level. America is already a disgrace to the Western world as far as these things are concerned. That's what Mr. Bayuk and Mr. Sugar know. Even in Western Europe, the so-called old Europe, the capital centres are also devastated and whoever comes to Slovenia, it is only surprising that Slovenia, a small Slovenia, which has nevertheless been in one socialist system before that small Slovenia enters the European Union with such steps. I was in Brussels when we were preparing for this, and all the foreigners who came to Slovenia could not believe how beautiful Slovenia is. And these foreigners were presidents of governments, parliamentarians and more. And even now, Slovenia in Europe is considered the most "fancy" city at this time, [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Ljubljana, Sorry, Sorry, Ljubljana, but not only Ljubljana and the whole of Slovenia. [[...]] And we're here with one bitterness and we're telling one bile how the worst of us are, everything's wrong, any "bastard" on the corner you're gonna stop, and you're gonna ask him to save the Slovenian story. Come on, please, come on! [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Two replicas. Mr. Bajuk first, then Mr. Sugar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Very short. Whoever listened knows I didn't even mention health care or anything else. I don't know which voice listens to Comrade Zląbet. Apparently, though, he hears some voices that no one else has heard in this hall today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u331	I'm asking you to stay with the amendment. Replica is still Mr. Cuckoo, then has the word, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u332	Well, I was probably misunderstood, Mr Evil, so I'd like to repeat it. In fact, it seems unfair to me, however, that if someone who has not made a decision or others have made a contribution of two percent to him, they have already exhausted the tax relief quota. And if they also pay compulsory or additional health insurance, which is, in some ways, compulsory, as we know, they have to pay a tax on these health-care funds. And if, at the same time, the roof fell over his head and he lives in a dumpster and he finances to repair his own house or somehow solve his own housing problem, from what he paid, he pays his own income. And if he still has kids and pays them a school in nature, he pays the bills, he has to pay taxes on what he paid the kids. I think it's a criminal feeling. If Mr Evil thinks it's right, then that's his opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, then Mrs. Kolar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u334	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! When I listen to these debates and think about these amendments earlier, I am talking about the sixth amendment - 3 to 2 - on the other hand, we are ignoring the general relief that has risen. Why? For social reasons, the lowest layers of the lowest remuneration should be unloaded. On the other hand, I would expect the government to say a firm word to whom this relief goes or to reduce it from 3 to 2 in favour of anyone in harm's way. When I look at data on average Slovenian salary and how many citizens get as average as we get from below the average and how much they get from above the average. Tell me, who with an average or average salary, which is the majority, can also buy this or that - and I will not mention that I don't resent culturers or anyone else - such and other works that, as a tax relief, could reduce their income, I think - income benefits. On the other hand, the richest ones don't have credits for apartments and for that and that, they buy cash apartments and a little "under hand" and so on. This is said to be true for young families and those who want or want, and especially those who are forced to solve their own housing problems, they rent loans. And these loans or interest are exempt from this heading. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, whose side are you on? Are you in favour of social welfare to save these layers, or are you on the side of capitalists, rich people, and protect them with this higher relief that some of you are so vehemently advocating? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u336	Thank you. I would just like to clarify once again maybe in the introduction you were not paying enough attention to this relief for the sums paid from the contribution. In addition, in the second paragraph of this supplementary Article it is stated that the limit of 2% of the annual tax base for relief listed in points 2 to 9. This matter is corrected by an amendment under order number 4, where, of course, these points 2 to 9 are replaced by ‘points 1, 3 to 10’. So point 2 is omitted because it means that self-contribution is not within the 2% limit. And I, I mean, I answered that very clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u337	Thank you very much. First Mr. Petty Officer, then Mr. Cuckoo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u338	We must ask ourselves what is the purpose of these reliefs under this Article 113. What is their purpose? Their purpose is not to compensate for these social differences, this is not the purpose, there are other instruments that build on this structure. They also have nothing to do with the beauty of Slovenia mentioned by Zląb. I am also glad to live in Slovenia, that Triglav is beautiful, that it is green grass and much more. But citizens do not care when they meet the tax forecast; then they are interested in what will happen to their pockets. In short, the purpose of these activities and facilitations is to give impetus to this private initiative in charity [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[Can you just shut up for a second?]] that it is possible to encourage charitable, humanitarian and trade unions to devote people to books; in short, for what is somehow in the public interest, it is not a public service. [[...]] This is the purpose of this - to establish this mechanism of civil society cells without State intervention. But something also has an effect on those who have children who buy school books and so on. That's the key effect. But only if you limit it from 3% to 2% means that you don't care about the development of this civil society, charity, humanitarian activities, which are for the purpose of alleviating social pressures - that you don't care enough. That's the purpose, that's the message we want to give through this. On the other hand, there is a minister who, of course, would like to draw as much money into the budget as possible. But let's think about what the real limit is, that these NGOs, charities, civil organisations will live, that they won't have to give him an extra 12 billion, and that they will have to have sustainable public finances. However, we argue that based on the argument that this is really too severe to be able to relax there completely up to 5% - the "comet". And I would save in other areas, maybe not this year, but next. And something else would have happened; we would have this civil society more developed and also have consciousness, responsibility, solidarity for the plight of others.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please, then Mr. Kebrich and Mr. Zląbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u340	Well, as regards self-contribution, it is indeed proposed, but not yet, this has not been accepted; I hope that it will be accepted that the self-contribution from this quota will be excluded. But it doesn't change things. As I said, additional health insurance already sucks in most cases almost the entire tax relief quota, where everything else is. For this reason, we believe that if tax reliefs are supposed to be a stimulus mechanism, an incentive mechanism for certain funding, as mentioned here, for example, internet connection and similar things, this is probably meant to be an incentive, just because the informationisation continues or is accelerated. In this case, of course, there is no incentive for 80% of Slovenian citizens who already pay additional health insurance. They're gone! And perhaps if we followed the instincts themselves, we should really think about these 2% and we think, and I still think that in terms of 2%, it is really pointless to talk about all of these indents and list them.Actually, we would fix the whole thing a little bit if we went back to 3%, even though in the third paragraph there is a new package of up to 2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u342	Thank you for your word. I repeat briefly to the honourable Ambassador Dr. Bayuk that I will not be misunderstood. The average citizen has fulfilled his tax return if the taxable person is a half-hour taxpayer. He received a copy of his salary, contributions, and the rest he entered into the corresponding boxes, those accounts he quickly collected because he kept them all year long, counted them and was finished in half an hour. However, those who received ten million fees in one year, I believe that by midnight in one day there was not enough time for them to have all those fees and all those fees and those fees, both of them, which fall under the tax base and the income, and they needed hours and hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Naughty. Then Mr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Since my colleague Petty Officer mentioned me, would you like to ask a colleague of Drobnik - did he go out? Well, I was gonna ask him if he could speak Chinese. In fact, Comrade Petty Officer knows everything and I'd be surprised if he didn't know Chinese. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u345	Dear colleagues, I don't mind having such nice calls, but please look at how many points we still have on the agenda today, so please use time really just for those compelling arguments. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u346	I do not answer to Mr Lukic the Evil One, because it makes no sense, but I could say that this debate, which was, of course, developed here by fellow Member Drobnik, is entirely in place and this is the logic of this 2% - what he was talking about. Now, if you don't want to hear it and you don't want to understand it, it's your personal problem. And if we really wanted this civil society in some way to be financed through this mechanism, to be detached from the country, to be distracted from the impact the State has on this civil society, then, of course, we as politicians should be thinking about upgrading this issue, not reducing it. That's the point. And this, once again, this explanation developed by Comrade Petty Officer stands. But the insult is that in this country the government obviously does not want to be aware of it, and we do not want to hear and resolve these arguments in this House. Because if we were to increase this civil funding function, of course, we would be burdening the state budget at the same time. That's how the situation stays the other way. The state budget is funding more and more for these various civil institutions, and we have no influence on citizens. And this, of course, is not something that the European Union, as well as the democratic countries outside the European Union, would not know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u348	Thank you very much. I would like to explain one point from the distinguished representatives of the government. Indeed, this explanation may also be in favour of clarifying our amendment, which brings this general tax relief back to three percent. In fact, the question of the fifth and sixth points of the building, the means of buying, the building of an apartment, or the maintenance of an apartment or apartment house, is being raised. Have you, perhaps, studied or even made a comparison of what would have happened if this relief were significant in this income, not just 3%. I guess maybe 30% or 40%. To what extent would the application of this relief reduce work to a black or gray economy? And if, to what extent or to what extent could this tax deduction be compensated for by the activity? Because I believe that then people would really take this thing and stop looking for favors from different people, I'm going to say, jungle people who don't have proper activities. Here I think that this transition is already 3% to 2% - already 3% is not worth mentioning and the proposal to reduce to 2% I don't think is a serious matter at all. But I would certainly like to answer what I asked. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u349	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Secretary of State. Before that, then, Mrs Kolar's word, Mr Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Just a little comment. I didn't understand how my colleague Kebrich replicated me. Because that is exactly what I am advocating that those of us - and I am one of those who have prepared their income in one hour - have the opportunity to have those papers that we have collected during the year of our cooperation and to support such different organisations and the purpose of having more words at a time when we are deciding on our own resources. Because that's what this is all about. Even for one who will only work for a few minutes his relief, especially for that one. Because, as you know, as far as businesses are concerned when we adopted the law, now a few days ago, about legal persons, this option is limited to 0.3%. And they don't have a legal person anywhere in the world, I don't know, a bigger possibility than our relief, as far as natural persons are concerned. However, that is all I would say is that the whole argument was that at the time he was preparing these things, an average citizen would be able to have a higher percentage of his revenues when he was making them for the country, and also in this sense he was directing them. Because this will show that there is some greater respect on the part of the State for the will of its people. On the other hand, the reverse image is that civil society must "take care" by attracting support from people, not by keeping species in ministries and waiting only for the budget. The social state, as long as we understand it only as the responsibility of the state apparatus, one large computer, one inventory of rights, not solidarity and personal responsibility, and then it is poorly written for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u352	Maybe it's good to just imagine the numbers that are 2, 3 percent of this base. For 2005, it is estimated that 2% are 150 billion tolars. So it's a focus potentially on civil society if you want 150 billion tolars, which is about 9% of the budget. You'll probably agree that's not a small number. In addition, for 150 billion dollars, it can interest on loans for housing loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u353	Thank you very much. I think we can close the debate. It was long, and I think you've all gotten enough information. So six amendments are in front of us. First of all, we vote on the amendment under order number 1, namely, the SMS Group of Members to Article 113. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 9 votes against 37. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the amendment of the same candidates under order number 2, with a footnote, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 11 votes against 39. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. That is why we are voting on the amendment under order number 3. It's an amendment to the Slovenia Coalition. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 19 votes against 36. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number four of the three coalition groups, with a footnote, if adopted, the amendment under 5 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 44 votes against 9. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted, so the amendment under 5 is irrelevant. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 6 of the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. I'm breaking up. I didn't break up, I didn't break up, but 6. We will vote again because I have seen that the amendment is unclear. On page 9, it is under order number 6 of the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. I apologize for trying to say in a nutshell that I no longer stress the coalition of Slovenia. I know that this group of Members is not in this assembly. I apologize. Once again, we vote on the amendment under order number 6. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 15 votes against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am opening the debate on Article 43 and the three amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and of New Slovenia. On the bench you have the amendment of the LDS MPs, the United List of Social Democrats and DeSUS to 143rd Article. We will decide on it under order number 2, the current two, and we will vote on the third amendment of the New Slovenia Group. So under 1, the amendment under 2 on the amendment, and under three, we will vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. So I am opening a debate with a remark that all amendments are mutually exclusive. If we accept the amendment under 1, the amendment on the bench is irrelevant, and the third is irrelevant. I am now opening a debate on all three amendments. Procedural proposal, Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u354	Madam President! Our amendment under number 2, now "that the time limits for the acquisition of capital referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 87(1) and paragraph 5 of Article 91 shall begin to be counted from the date of effective acquisition of capital". This has become irrelevant because our amendment to Article 87 has not been adopted, nor has our amendment to Article 91. So it's irrelevant, but basically it's still kind of valid, but it's going to be the subject of a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u355	Mr. Bayuk, I don't think he's worthless. We will vote on him unless you withdraw him. Did you withdraw the amendment? Thank you very much. The amendment of the parliamentary group under order number 2 in the amendment review has been withdrawn. I am opening the debate on the amendment of the two parliamentary groups under order number 1 and you have the amendment of the three parliamentary groups on the benches. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We can move on to decision-making. First of all, we vote on the amendment of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups, which is under order number 1. I asked if anyone wanted to discuss it. No one raised their hand, Mr Bajuk, so I concluded the debate. We are therefore voting on the amendment, as I have said. I'm calling off the vote. Voice explanation, Mr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u356	Thank you very much. This is an amendment that we have tabled together with the SDS to delete. I would just like to point out that I will vote in favour of this because, in fact, it remains now, if only two paragraphs remain now, the first one is unprovoked, and there is no telling why, and the government has not tried to explain it either. The fact is that this only creates the possibility that from now on until the end of the year we will have some major activities in the area of changing the capital ownership structure. I think this would be a completely wrong message, but, of course, this is what the government wanted. In any case, however, the deletion of this article seems very appropriate, since it is absolutely unnecessary to talk about such preliminary decisions as they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u358	I will also support the amendment of the Slovenian Coalition concerning the deletion of the entire 143rd Article. What is the point and what is the difference between the coalition amendment and our proposal? Following the coalition amendment, the first paragraph remains that, irrespective of the provisions of Article 87(1) of this Law, the profit obtained by the removal of the property obtained before 1.1.2002 shall not be taxed. I think that, in the first paragraph of Article 87, which has been very under-controversial today, in fact nothing, and which speaks of capital as the removal of real estate, this article essentially does not tax anything that was acquired before 1.1.2002, and will be later, when it is taken away. I don't think that's right. I think we can erase this without a problem and then the tax liability will arise when someone takes away this property. Otherwise, I know the reasons why the date 1.1.2002 is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u359	Thank you very much. We have heard explanations of the votes on the first amendment in the review to Article 143. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting! There are 56 of us present, 15 votes against 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are now voting on an amendment that is not in the review and is on the bench, the LDS Member Club and the ZLSD and DeSUS groups to 143rd. We're voting! There are 55 of us present, 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. I am opening the debate on Article 146 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Who wants a word? Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u360	Thank you for your word. Given the adoption of the amendment on the Committee on Finance, we see in the Group that there has been a positive shift, but still not enough. There is a finding that, despite the progress made in agriculture, double taxation is sought by way of income. In the debate, at the general hearing of this law, I said that the prices of agricultural crops have fallen by more than 100% over the last eight years. Repromaterial increased by 140%. The analysis prepared by the farmers' union for all parliamentary groups made it very clear that between 1995 and 2003 the average annual inflation was at least 7.5% of the price of agricultural products fell by 5.6% on average. If I compare the situation with wheat, in 1995 the income per tonne of wheat produced was 173.8 euros and in 2002 it was only 131.3 euros. If, of course, we still consider a subsidy for a hectare of 54,000 tolars here, we still gain a negative difference of 4 euros per tonne of produced wheat. Thus, in addition to the subsidy, which is the basic compensatory payment between costs, between the price difference because prices are falling, the income situation in wheat for 4 euros per tonne is lower than in 1995, plus subsidies. The difference between cattle and bovine animals is even greater. In 1995, 1568.4 euros were worth a ton of living weight, and in 2002 an average of 1249.6 euros was received for a ton of bovine animals. Together with subsidies, which are naturally included with 43 000 per question, we get a negative difference of 101 euros per tonne of beef. This is only one of the indicators of the duality of the approach to the treatment of agricultural income. At the same time, the cadastral income increased by more than 100%, not to mention its additional revalorisation. This includes the second fact that by 2007 a reform of the common agricultural policy will be implemented, which will also change the way Eko 0 direct payments are paid and the decision on the model of choice of reform left to each Member State in the European Union as well as in the European Union, at this moment there are of course lively debates, presentations of possible combinations and models, which the reform should also allow. Of course, it is only in this flight that Slovenia has chosen a model of combinations, in which direction agricultural policy reform will, of course, also decide. The modified method of taxation in agriculture in labour, which is also subject to the Income Act, therefore seems to be in fact unjustified. Therefore, we propose to move forward, in fact only when a new model is in operation since 2007, but until then we need to radically amend the law on, the determination of cadastral income, and, of course, the actual evaluation of cadastral income, which can be a real indicator of the income situation in agriculture, and at that point we could actually approach the calculation of the proposed model. That is, as long as the cadastral income is as unrealistic as it is today, which does not follow the income situation, by the way, only in last year’s year’s fall in cadastral income. Why? Because we also had an extremely adverse weather situation in addition to a negative income situation. That is why I would expect here, and I expect that it will prevail, as in some other segments, further thinking towards the need to take another step in addition to one step. This transitional period would probably provide a suitable time for a comprehensive solution to this issue at that time. Therefore, we also propose an amendment that, as we have also written down, "without prejudice to the second paragraph of Article 60 of this Law, income shall be paid on the basis of the agricultural policy measures referred to in the second paragraph of Article 59 of this Law in the tax base in 2007." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u361	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Sok to the floor, then Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u362	Thank you, for your word. Honourable Minister, co-workers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. I think that the area of agricultural taxation is so important that, of course, it is completely unrealistic for us to deal with the law, I must say that we are dealing with the law in such a way, according to an urgent procedure, with a set of other matters that need to be resolved before 1 May before we enter the European Union. But there's nothing we can do, it's what you've been forcing and now, of course, you're pushing it through this state council in such an urgent procedural way. If we make a mistake here, then, of course, Slovenia will not, as previously said, be as beautiful, as green and as processed, because we must be aware that agriculture does not have, at least in our country, only economic functions, but it is essential more, in particular serving the processing of the country and the settlement. Much of this has been said by my predecessor, but if we say so, and we have already brought this out here in this House, that the size of the Slovenian farm today is on average four times smaller than the farm in the European Union, which means that the income on these farms is also significantly lower so that we reach comparable subsidies only in 2007. Even after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, there will be a number of measures that are now being introduced in this last year and which will then be introduced when we enter the European Union aimed primarily at young people taking over farms. If we include them immediately in this new taxation system from 2005 onwards, it is not difficult to imagine that this Slovenian agriculture for young people, for takeovers, will become even more uninteresting than it is at this moment. There are big problems today. They just don't see the outlook in agriculture, they don't see the income, because that's what my colleague Rokavec said. The prices of agricultural products have dropped dramatically while the prices of repromaterials have increased. The Statistical Office published information that the factor income fell by 23.5% in 2003 compared to 2002. Of course, this is due to the natural disaster, drought, etc. that we experienced in 2003. No one's gonna guarantee it won't happen this year. However, in order to be able to prepare all of this in order to adopt a cadastral income law, it is necessary to harmonise the situation in nature because it is not harmonised today. I think that, at least with everything that is going to be done in this area, as a government, this amendment could be supported and this new taxation suspended for two years, and at that time we would prepare everything that is necessary. This is called the Cadastrian Income Act. This would allow farms, especially the takeovers, young farmers, to prepare for this new form at this time. Because at this point Slovenian agriculture is not ready for this and if we tax it in this way, then the situation will be even more difficult. We will support this amendment in our parliamentary group. We also intended to propose a solution in this direction ourselves, but since the Human Party has already proposed it, we have simply concluded that we will support it. And it would be very good, Mr Minister, to listen to the arguments coming from agrarian economists in all these arguments, as you did with the amendment on family income or taxation in this area. It's not something we'd make up, I don't know, to politicians in opposition, but it's something that we're warning you about, agrarian economists. These are the ones who are the most monitored and familiar with the situation in Slovenia today. And the situation in Slovenian agriculture is not rosary, I would rather argue that the situation in Slovenian agriculture is extremely poor at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u363	Thank you. And a fellow Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In any event, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which seeks to eliminate a severely harmful provision of the Income Act, which intends to tax payments under agricultural policy measures, which, in my deep belief, is totally contrary to the purpose of these compensatory payments, which are aimed at poor farming conditions or at compensating the loss of income that farmers cannot affect. See, this suggests ignorance, because I do not believe that ladies and gentlemen from the Ministry of Finance would not know the situation in the field of agriculture, not all the arguments and reports prepared by agricultural economists and which clearly show the situation in the field of Slovenian agriculture. It is undeniable that every year over the last 12 years we have seen a decline in the economic situation in agriculture. Income farming is in a worse position every year. The result of the deterioration of the agricultural situation is that every day, every day, ladies and gentlemen, ten farms will be shut down! As a result, we have 100,000 hectares of agricultural land growing. This irreparably changes the appearance of Slovenia and has an irreparable impact on the development of life and the course of rural development. The excessive administration, which is taking place in parallel with this event or with the deterioration of the agricultural situation, is evident. In 1992, 96 officials were employed at the Ministry of Agriculture and 819 were employed in 2003. And there's not even a bunch of those who were transferred to the agri-land chamber. Slovenia is the most veterinary country, with the most improbable, non-living, strictest veterinary regulations, which has an impact on the extremely poor situation of livestock livestock, which is the leading sector in the field of Slovenian agriculture. You are well aware of the facts, it gives you the calculation of cadastral income unrealistically, non-lifely and does not reflect the actual state or possibility of income generation on these surfaces. With all this knowledge that you know all these negative trends in agriculture, it is completely incomprehensible to come up with a proposal to tax what the country gives to farmers in order to retain itself in order to survive. Listen, this is in conflict with every logic and does not bring any serious criticism. What will happen if the trend continues. When, for the last time, did someone rightly ask themselves, will there be more agricultural officials than farms in Slovenia? Probably very fast. Very fast. And that's what you gentlemen in the coalition are looking at and observing. I believe that this issue affects all three percent of the Slovenian population and that this is not an interesting and interesting topic in terms of electoral mathematics. I believe, but indirectly this will affect the entire state of the Slovenian economy. Above all, this will leave irreparable consequences in most Slovenian territory. I will only conclude by saying that it is no wonder that Minister Booth said good-bye from the Ministry City with a smile on his mouth because he had a heavy burden on him. Your further view of this agriculture has also been reflected from the human resources offer, because there is probably no hope for us in the future, because the arrival of a new veterinarian in a policy that is linked to Slovenian agriculture, which is supposed to create agricultural policy, is likely to lead to worse times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u365	Thank you, Comrade Sušnik. Anyone else want a word? First of all, Minister. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u366	Thank you very much. First, I'm sorry, Mr. Sok, but the procedure is normal. There is no necessary procedure for this law. The marriage came to Parliament in December, so I think it's a normal procedure. Another thing, Mr Rokavec, is how we listened to farmers and their problems. I think that in this area, the committee, as I have already said in the opening statement and then Mr Pucko, has listened to the farmers extremely and a number of amendments have been adopted. Today another amendment to 147 is proposed, which is intended to solve a certain matter. At the same time, we have committed ourselves and tomorrow the KD law is being amended in Parliament. At the same time, we have committed ourselves to making a statement and adapting to the level of current market prices those actual disparities that are in the existing methodology. That's how we committed ourselves to doing this this year. When I also had an interview with representatives of farmers' unions, they even stressed that if the calculation was entirely appropriate, which would, of course, be done by the Institute, then they said, could already be included in the base in 2007 100% ECO0 and ECO1. We have, of course, said that a transitional period is needed, as they will also increase ECO0 and ECO1 payments over the coming years. From this point of view, there is also an agreement in my opinion, one understanding that if this is settled, then there is no problem with it. After what we accepted on the committee, in all these changes, I think we went to the farmers as far as possible. They hold your data on the price drop of agricultural products, but it would be appropriate to indicate that in the last three years ECO0 and ECO1 payments have increased by 133%. Simply through this policy, which I would say, Slovenia in this area, compared to other adherents, is really leading by listening to agriculture, that it is necessary to stress that these alignments are then present here and that by 2007 there will be up to 100% of these compensations, which are also available to the Austrian farmer or to the French farmer. And we're not going to be at 100% wages or 100% productivity and so on. This is where we really went to the farmers to get the maximum.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u367	He's got two reports to discuss. Comrade Sok and colleague Rokavec. First of all, Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u368	I, for the first time, cannot agree with the Minister that this is a normal procedure. So at the previous meeting, we discussed the law at first reading, and today we are dealing with a complex law, such as the Income Act, at an extraordinary meeting. Otherwise, you may consider this to be a normal procedure, but at an extraordinary session to accept such a complex law, with so many consequences, of course it is not normal for me. It's a shame it's not enough time to go public with these things. It's a shame you don't take into account the warnings of agrarian economists who must know this area, Mr. Minister, much better than you do. And in such a way as this is accepted, of course there will be great damage to Slovenian agriculture. The result of this decision will be that, as has been said several times, more Slovenian farms will fail to see more young people going to cities, that parents in rural areas will remain old, that the countryside will grow even more intensive than it is now. At the same time, Slovenia will become a growing food importer. It is also true that Slovenia imports more and more food every year, and at home we grow more and more surfaces. This is, of course, due to irregular agricultural policy. Of course it's not your fault. The biggest blame for this is that of those who led this area of agriculture who were responsible for it. From here on out, when such a law is passed for the taxation of farmers, of course you will be responsible for further deterioration, Mr Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u369	Thank you very much. And my friend Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u370	Thank you for your word. Well, it's nice that the minister admitted that the data was accurate. My information, Mr. Minister, was also required with the subsidies, along with the subsidies, for the cattle. So this is not true that subsidies were not included in these comparisons, which, of course, I mentioned. But there's another problem. The problem is that a very complex area of cadastral income is now being predicted to be resolved in a short time. We know how long this area has been trying to get rid of it, and it hasn't gotten rid of it. Errors are also very often made in speed. Already this law is going very quickly, according to my assessment of the parliamentary procedure. I would very much like to come up with a new law on the identification of cadastral income that would actually determine the income situation. I believe that if we had such a solution on the table, it would be much easier to talk about the solutions to this income law. And that's it. Surely you have clearly calculated data in the Ministry of Finance on what our amendment would mean, on what financial implications for the 2005 and 2006 revenue shortfalls. That is why it would be very good to hear this before deciding on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u372	Thank you very much. I'm missing another piece of information. Given what has been adopted and recorded in 146th Article on the Committee on Finance, I would expect you to know some numbers, a projection of the improvement of the economic situation of Slovenian agriculture, that you have been written in here, that now a step of 25% will increase the burden of these payments on agricultural policy measures. Please indicate which are the expected positive financial developments, indicators that would indicate an improvement in the agricultural situation, to the improved economic situation in the agricultural sector, that you have decided to gradually burden payments under the agricultural policy measures, which would then cover those payments at some point in 2008 100%, in the event that my predecessor has indicated that payments under the agricultural policy measures do not compensate for the decrease in sales prices or compensate for the poor income situation in the agricultural sector. The calculations made available to agrarian economists clearly show that, even with the subsidies added, we do not achieve those sales prices and do not improve the income situation in the agricultural sector, as they were present in this area over the past period. I'd like to know the reason again. I will be very pleased with the improvement forecast, because only this forecast of economic improvement justifies the gradual increase in direct payment taxation, as stated in Article 146. If there are no real forecasts of a better economic situation, then this is completely wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The government? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u374	Perhaps only this would add that, in these amendments, these amendments adopted by the Committee are now an opportunity for farmers to manage the bookkeeping and show actual revenues and costs from this point of view and then divide them into family members participating in the farm. So I think it's a solution, because if anyone wants to show the actual situation, they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Comrade Rokavec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u376	Well, I would only point to one important fact. Slovenia has four times smaller agricultural holdings than the average in the European Union. With this proposal, we will not just hit clean farms. We will also hit the largest segment of so-called semi-farms because their burden will also increase significantly under this income law. I think this is the key question: are we going to leave the land to a rise, or are we going to make it possible, through tax legislation, to allow this land to continue to be processed? That's the opposite question. Today there has been a lot of talk in this hall, why we Slovenians can be proud of a variety of arrangements in a wide range of areas. Because we also followed our specifics. In this case, however, it is likely that a deviation from its specificity will result in the fact that the negative effect will also be expressed in readiness for farming in specific areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u377	Thank you. Comrade Sok again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u378	Just for a little while. Mr. Minister, I have a proposal. I propose that today, in this second reading, you support this amendment and then re-examine this proposal until the third reading, and then it can still be revised in the third reading, possibly on a proposal from the government. However, if we do not accept this amendment today, this article will, of course, remain closed and may be amended more. Take another month to discuss this matter again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u379	Minister, do you want another word based on your proposal? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude the debate on Article 146 and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party to this Article. We'll go to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We will vote on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 146. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 21 votes against 39. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment didn't get any support. I'm moving on to Article 147a. I am opening the debate on this amendment to Article 147a tabled by the three LDS, the United List and DeSUS. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and propose an amendment to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We'll vote. We're voting! 60 present, favoured 49 votes against 6. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 148, where two amendments have been tabled. The first is the Slovenian People's Party to delete the article and the other three parliamentary groups, LDS, the United List and DeSUS. I'm opening a debate. Willy Trophynick has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u380	Thank you for your word. Article 3 of the Act, which is under consideration, states that income is the income of the State budget. From this point of view, Article 148 does not have a place in this law, but it is one of the other two laws which speak of those shares, or first of all that income is given to local communities in proportion - these are the law on local self-government and the law on the financing of municipalities. The original text, which was published in the Rapporteur, could be said to be of a more cosmetic nature. However, cosmetic nature in the sense that it damages the quality of the law more than its benefits. Of course, an amendment was adopted at the Committee's hearing, which has completely changed this article and made it significantly worse. An even worse option is now one of the amendments, or this other amendment, which is proposed for this article of the law. Why? Nor in Article 142 of the Constitution, which alone defines the obligation of the State to provide local communities with insufficient income to ensure the performance of constitutional and legal tasks, nor in the European Charter on Local Self-Government does it have any place or basis for such a solution as is written here. As soon as the two members of the government accepted a delegation of representatives of those municipalities who so wished in the Income Law to secure a privileged position, it is not possible to understand or believe from then on the serious purpose of amending the Income Act. Why? 22 municipalities that are self-financing have in price, I will say, in numbers or in the budget for this year, a good 18 billion surplus. In particular, between these 22 municipalities, 5 of them have special status, which, with the incomes referred to in Article 21, is 35% of their income, and four significant by size of their income or taxes, obtain more income than their appropriate consumption. On the one hand, we have 18 billion surpluses higher than 38 billion financial balances. If the applicants were to act economically, they would be able to obtain this law for a state budget of around 5 billion. Why? Of the 131 billion incomes of local communities in income, 70 billion belong to these 22 municipalities. And if the precise assessment of the bill's proponent is that the negative effects of the proposed law on local budgets will amount to a good 9 billion, then it can be very easy to estimate that 5 billion of these same local communities, which, under the terms of the proposed law, are said to be "necessary" to fulfil their constitutional and legal obligations. It is clear from this that it is not a concern for the greatest possible size of the state budget, but indirectly, whether in an attempt or unwillingness, through such a 148th paragraph, and even through the amendment, it is a concern for the privileges of some. Of course, this needs to be made higher-a-vis to some decisions, in particular the three that have taken place in this National Assembly since last summer. First, by law on the construction of buildings, we abolished compensation for building land from infrastructure facilities. There the state budget was obtained only on the Drava River to the detriment of the municipalities of 3 billion and half. Then, in the amendments to the gambling law, we granted privileges to some congregations amounting to a billion 800. And now we are again trying to grant privileges to some municipalities of 5 billion or 6 billion 800 privileges and, on the other hand, only one river or 32 municipalities. On one river, we take half of that or 3 and a half billion. Of course, we cannot call this quality, systemic, transparent and equitable financing of local communities. That is why, of course, this article has nothing to look for, and this is also a justification in this law, why we propose the abolition or deletion of this article. However, it is an interesting genetics from the basic text through the adopted amendment, the amended text on the committee, and now the second amendment. At least the original text was harmful. However, it is illogical and it is not an honour for the proponents to say literally: "The financial effects of this law will be taken into account in the assessment of the municipality's own income for 2000, if for this reason the extent of the municipality's own income changes." Ladies and gentlemen, you wrote in your explanation that it's changing by 9 billion and 100. Then why this poo? Don't you think nobody reads that? The text, which is more interesting after a meeting of the Committee on Finance as an integral text, is that it introduces a second type of financial settlement. In such a way as to have a proportionate share of the income for all municipalities first and then to make a financial contribution. This income adjustment would affect all 193 municipalities and would actually damage the state budget under the income line. I would refer to some of those who receive financial compensation, so much less, other financial compensation, for those who do not receive financial compensation, and to those who do not receive financial compensation, and to those who do not have a basis in the Constitution, I would argue once again, not even in the European Local Government Charter. The second amendment, which, in the second paragraph, deletes the word'receivables', of course, has arisen, I believe, now that they have concluded that such a text means a loss for the state budget, the burden of financial compensation for those entitled to financial compensation under the Constitution. This is said to be another higher form of privilege, not to the detriment of the state budget, but to the detriment of the already adopted budget and the level of financial compensation to those who belong to them under the Constitution and under the European Charter. This is, of course, an excess of the solution and an excess of the transfer and, of course, the over-privileged position of some who are trying to ensure it. The explanation is not complex and fair, not to mention 1998. In 1998, we increased from 30% to 35% of the income due for two reasons. Firstly, all budgets would be less dependent on the state budget. Secondly, because we knew that there were surpluses to enable, on the other hand, responsible implementation of the institutional obligations in the field of culture for the 36 institutions which were accidentally so divided that they were in those municipalities that thus had surpluses. Today, of course, all 36 of these laws are financed by the state budget. But the money's still there. The reason for this is no longer that the funds remained at those locations. This is said to be a privilege that has been quietly realized at this point in time, gradually every year something, revenues have remained, but now we are trying to extend life or legalize this privilege with the wrong law. Let me put it this way. Income is the worst source for local communities because it is inadequately distributed, not by fault or by the credit of local communities, but by some other reason. This is also true in other countries. Therefore, Bavarians give up only 15% of their income, not 30, not 35, and therefore have at least four to five equivalent, after absolute amount, other sources. I would advise the government or the proponents that, in order to lose income of 9 to 10 billion, depending on what the effects on local communities will be, it is very easy to find a replacement source that is evenly distributed, which will have positive effects, will not have so many negative effects and will tell you one thing. That's 45% of registration fees for cars. Registration fees or cars are distributed evenly in Slovenia as we are residents. As much as the population in each local community, there are also cars. It's just a Slovenian spec. And if anyone doesn't believe me, I'll show him the graph. You see, there are two curves that completely coincide, such as cars, and registration fees, which are linked as well as the population. Even Ljubljana has no significant difference. For one percentage point there are more cars than the population. To conclude as needlessly as possible. For the quality of the law, the only way out is to delete this article and to adopt the first amendment. Of course, I do not know if you have been aware of what you wrote down by proposing the second amendment, because if you delete the word income, it means this conscious burden of existing financial compensation for those to whom it belongs, on the account or on behalf of those who do not belong to it under the Constitution. In advance, I reject any comments about the conflict between rich municipalities or others. That's not what this is about. It is consistency, correctness and, in some ways, the legalization of such privileges and the inadmissibility of changing the relationship between the law and the law. When we adopted amendments to the law on gambling, the minister threatened to resign - I would too - because they took away a billion and eight hundred. When another minister with another law collected three billion and a half to municipalities in Slovenia, no one protested. Today, when we collect or provide with this law again the privileges of 5 billion to one group of congregations, almost no one is protesting. This is not an honour to the funding system and with such excuses to the Law on the Financing of the New Communities this is not an argument. If we wanted to, we'd have this marriage a long time ago because it's as important as the Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u382	Thank you very much. I would also like to touch on this 148th article, in particular on the point that I would like to stress that, with the implementation of this 148th Article, I have no doubt that it will stand, once again, to confirm and reassert that unacceptable, irregular, unacceptable and unsustainable situation in the field of community financing that tolerates congregations, which are 168, which have some level of appropriate spending, which, according to the household, allows consumption per capita of those 99 or 100,000 tolars, and on the other hand the law of 23 municipalities, where 90,000 tolars are not sufficient because there is a need to have 220,000, 240,000, 250,000, 250,000 tolars. I have no doubt that spending and the need, given the bad attitude and the centralisation of consumption, is on the back of Slovenia's tail on the gross social product that the local community is devoting to. I am not saying that 200,000 tolars are too per capita for one decent funding of the legal obligations and needs of a local community. However, it certainly shows that those 95,000, 96,000 or 100,000 tolars, which must be satisfied with 167 congregations, are severely under-represented, decisively under-recognizable.With this you have practically admitted that 167 municipalities are undernourished, because you have realized that the municipalities facing a reduction or a withdrawal of some more income, which brings an appropriate consumption, and I am pleased that this article has been implemented. This article would come very well in reasoning and in implementing a new law on the financing of municipalities. He'll come in handy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Janez Spodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u384	Thank you, Vice President. Would government representatives say whether they support the amendment under point 2 or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u385	Thank you. A fellow Rockhead. Same. Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u386	Thank you for your word. I would like to recall on this occasion before answering Mr Podobnik's question that you will be reminded of the latest amendment to the VAT law, when, in order to comply with the Sixth Directive, we had to transfer from the taxation segment of the two-percent real estate tax for building land to taxation with value added tax at a 20% rate. If I am not mistaken, several mayors raised a constitutional dispute on this subject, which, of course, took away the primary source of funding from municipalities through the amendment of the VAT law. You know that in ZIPR we have then prepared certain solutions with calculations, providing data that we have somehow replaced this original source after changing and calculating the law into a VAT system. Why did I say that? Because I think I agree with the debaters that it is necessary to prepare or harmonise and enforce the Law on Community Financing. We know that there are problems in the current system, and we also know what changes have been made in the meantime, especially in terms of individual regulations and the demands of ministries, by which municipalities have received individual additional funding obligations mainly at the local level. However, given the constitutional decision and the item referred to in the first sentence of this Article, in order to further accelerate the final harmonisation and enforcement of the law which will reorganise the financing of municipalities, and given that the fate of the constitutional definition is also possible in this part, we agree with this text somehow. With this, of course, let me add that the deletion of the word "receivable" itself is not understood to interfere with any financial settlement. This deletion is essentially necessary only in order to indicate revenue from the budget and not just income from income from income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Comrade Trofenik still wants a word. You've got it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u388	Thank you. I'm sorry, but I was challenged by the Secretary of State. Now, of course, it's gonna look a little weird that I'm gonna object to a professional as a layman. However, Mrs Kolarjev, don't mind: the justification for a constitutional decision is an empty shot. In the Constitutional Court, you lost the proponents, which we warned you about, because you took the root source of the local community, that's the real estate tax. And that's something else than the amount of the tax that's been waived. That is why I cannot accept this explanation and many others do not accept it because it simply does not. Of course, the constitutional decision was good because you obviously learned something or confessed something in tax bureaucracy. I've told you this since the consideration of ZIPRO last year. Until then, you argued, irrespective of European practice, that VAT cannot be shared between different levels: between local communities and beyond. As for excise duties, you have said the same thing, when accepting VAT, since accepting excise duties, when some of you have been warned that it would be wise to reflect on the example of European laws which derogate from shares. And I was most pleased when you and ZIPRO admitted this year and next year that this was going on, but you were not consistent and you only admitted it to one group of municipalities, not all. And in doing so, you made one catastrophic mathematical mistake that you thought again only of those above the level, those below the level you already wanted to solve in an undisciplined way through financial settlement - and it would be interesting if someone attacked ZIPRO before the Constitutional Court - but you forgot those who could happen to be thrown by one traffic of property from subsidized property across the border. I don't know what would have happened to you in the technical implementation of the law. That is to say, this argument that this is why you enter the 148th article - sorry, simply does not hold a serious opinion. But it's an interesting opportunity to talk about it in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u389	Thank you. And Mrs. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u390	Still, I'd like to give you a quick answer. Therefore, there is no VAT anywhere in Europe that could be income in the budget of local communities. We can talk about the purpose of something from the collected VAT, which goes into the state budget, in particular from this work. This was the case when we were talking about this replacement with a real estate tax. And the answer to another question. Also, this distribution key, 35% of income, is the primary fiscal capacity or source of local communities in the calculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Davorin Targeton has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, nevertheless, I would like to tell my colleague Trofenic that I really agree with many of his arguments. I also argue that the funding system of the municipalities is unrestrained and that it would indicate that there is a new product as soon as possible, not the one we have, in which colleague Trofenik also participated, as we recall. But the way you came here, gentlemen of the People's Party, I'm going to say it's a typical "fowshart" and nothing else. In fact, this amendment does not correct any injustice which we can say exists in the financing of municipalities in Slovenia. It doesn't mean any redistribution. This amendment really only takes on some; it gives nothing to those who have less. The municipalities that so far have a financial settlement will continue to have it. However, the municipalities above the financial level remain at the same level, of course, provided that paragraph 148 remains. But you've deleted the 148th article, and that's the same thing as saying that if I'm already going bad, let the neighbor go bad, let the neighbor die of a goat. It's an amendment to "fovsariya" and nothing else, Mr. Trophynik. The matter must be resolved systematically - I agree that there are too many differences - but not so that if one goes wrong, one goes wrong to the other - by leaving this money to the state budget, centralising it and no municipality will have it. There's another way to settle this, but not just by "fowsaw" we'll take it from those who have something.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u393	Thank you, Comrade Terchon. Willy Trophynick has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u394	First of all, Madam Secretary: if you want literature, where VAT is shared at different levels across Europe, I will provide it to you; but I hope you have it. I am not talking about techniques that are complicated, I agree that excise duties are easier to share, but yes, and it is in practice, including excise duties - what Austria sees, across the border, there is some excise duty called "biersteuer" and is divided into three levels. We can also look elsewhere at VAT in Switzerland. And you wouldn't talk about it just because you opened the other one. Comrade Tarchoon. Basically, I reject, Comrade Tarchoon, I did not mention - but now I will, for those who do not know - that you were among the proponents of that privileged amendment that came out in some non-systemic law; I am talking about non-systemic in terms of community funding. Interestingly, however, you do not realize that we have some types of concession fees and that we have for every other system. We even have concession fees for the energy use of rivers, and in this love of small Slovenia we have only three rivers; two and a half rivers are subject to one system, and these two rivers are Drava, Soča and the upper part of Sava, and another system applies to the lower part of Sava. Do you think that's appropriate? Then we have some others, and where the eastern part of Slovenia was affected, when the country saved 3.5 billion to invest them now in other parts of Slovenia, then no one wanted to help. There's nothing else we're pledging - for an equalization and no "fowl." You believe that this text of Article 148 solves funding problems during a transitional period. That's not true! Because you're legitimizing part of things that don't have a constitutional basis. Article 142 is very simple; the European Charter on Local Self-Government is very simple, which explicitly states when the assistance of the local community belongs. I'm warning you, that's all. And even if we understood or got into trouble, we'd see that I'm defending another source, more resources, instead of income. It would be good and good if the income of 35 were to be halved, I think of it as the corresponding source of the congregations. Because we'd eliminate these anomalies, these jumps would provide other sources, but you're not ready. And it's a huge amount of naivety, one that you agree that a significant amount of decommissioned income is that it's a quality of funding. Yeah, for a lot of people at a given time, which isn't, I wouldn't explain the tax theory, but these things, because they don't belong here. And not take it that way. Differences are unacceptable because it is partially legal step by step in different laws - after the current mood of the majority in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u395	Comrade Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u396	My colleague Trofenik and I have had a hotline for a long time, as far as community funding is concerned. We both agree that there are great injustices in the community funding system. The only difference between me and him is that he is very strong - and I think that the main negotiator by the SLS was when this law on the financing of municipalities was created - and I was slightly less or significantly less involved. Therefore, Mr. Trophynik, address this criticism in the first place to yourself and then to me. You have extended this debate to the field of gambling concessions. I don't want to explain here right now. I'm just gonna say for a minute that we exhausted this debate when it was. I put all the revenues into the community funding package, not just concessions. All the income, because ultimately, how much money they receive is important for the congregations. Whether it's called a concession or it's called something else, it doesn't matter. And when we gave up all our income, we saw that things were different. However, it is also different from the law on gambling that we have adopted, which gave precisely dedicated money. But I would not dispute with you, Mr Trophynik, either, because you did not reject with anything in your reply what I said: that the only purpose of this amendment is for the neighbor to be killed by a goat. Because we don't have one, others won't. And there's nothing else. And read article 148 and your amendment. There's absolutely nothing else! Your congregation will have nothing to lose with this, but some congregations will. If we are going to make a correctional system, and if you're ever going to work together again, Mr. Trophynik, make it really right, but not in a way that translates someone just "fowsaw" and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u397	Mr. Trofenik has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u398	Dear colleague, you obviously don't know or understand. I'm trying! And this amendment of yours means directly from an item that is only one in the state budget financial settlement, to take another five billion in financial compensation, which cannot be financial compensation, because neither by law nor by constitution is defined. That's the point of the problem, no foss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u399	Thank you very much. I can conclude the debate and move on to a vote. First, I will put to the vote the first amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to delete Article 148. May I have your attention, please? If this is accepted, of course, the second is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 13 votes against 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment didn't get any support. I will therefore put to the vote an amendment under number 2 of the three groups of Members. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on amendment number two. There are 56 of us present, 40 votes against 12. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] This amendment has been adopted. We must now go back to Article 108, on which the Slovenian People's Party has tabled the amendment. Anybody want a word? My friend John Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u400	Thank you very much. Together with some colleagues and those dealing with this issue, we tried to write our debate into an amendment, and we did so in a way that we wrote: "Comprehension of reduced tax base is extended even after 26 years or after 6 years of study in cases where undergraduate studies last more than 8 semesters, for each further semester for 6 months, and in cases of study abroad for the duration of this study." So, the amendment's change went in terms of my previous debate and some colleagues. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Vice President. When we looked at the transcript of the debate, Mr Minister, who has now joined us again after a heated debate on municipalities, however, on the basis of your interpretation, which is very important, I would ask you one question, Mr Minister, if you would like to answer this question. Whether we properly understand the content of Article 108, paragraph 1, which speaks of special reliefs. If a student earns a tolar of over 600,000 tolars through a student's work, do we then make it easier for him to add up to 668 thousand 100 tolars, it doesn't count? In fact, if that were to happen, if this interpretation of ours were correct, then it is not your explanation, Mr. Minister, in the first part of your answer. Would you like to answer that question?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u402	That's the explanation. If you go over a million 600 grand, of course you're as taxed as everyone else is. Because it's more than a minimum wage. Up to the minimum wage, taxation is zero, from minimum wage to a million 600 is a measure of relief and over a million 600 is a full tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u403	John Sponik, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u404	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I don't think that's how we understood this solution. I don't know if you're aware of what that means in practice. In fact, I think it would be correct to delete this part of the text and to ensure that only that income that exceeds 600,000 per year is actually taxed. This is said, on the basis of your interpretation, a student whose income for one tolar would be higher than a million 600 thousand, loses all special personal relief. Will such a solution not contribute to even greater breaches of the law? Students in this case will literally be forced to work in black. Don't you think this solution is going in a direction where students will be the weaker party in this relationship and they won't have a choice, and because students who work through travel are at least insured, but if you work in black, you're not, you're on your own? That is why, Mr Vice-President, if you allow, another amendment would be tabled: in the first paragraph, the text 'and its revenues which are subject to taxation under this law in the year for which it is administered shall not exceed a million 600,000 tolars'. I'd like to base it briefly. By deleting this text, we ensure that only one income that exceeds a million 600,000 tolars per year is actually taxed. Otherwise, a student whose income would be - I am speaking symbolically - one tolar higher than a million 600 thousand would lose all special relief. This amendment, however, allows this special personal relief to be maintained in any case and the difference to be taxed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u405	If I understand correctly, it is not only about correcting your amendment to Article 108, which is listed under number 1, but it is a new amendment or another amendment - once a correction of your former and please explain it. [[...]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u406	It was only on the basis of the Minister's reply that we could then justify our amendment. At first we corrected our basic amendment, but only from the Minister's magnetogram did we understand the text the way the Minister quoted it. And I would ask if we could read this amendment or divide it into decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u407	The Slovenian People's Party's Group proposes Article 108 of the amendment: in the first paragraph, the text 'and its revenues which are subject to taxation under this law in the year for which it is administered shall not exceed a million 600,000 tolars'. Should the amendment be reproduced and placed on the bench? [[No, no, ……]] We gonna figure out what this is all about? Anyone else want a word? If you don't, I'm gonna be a colleague of mine. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u408	Thank you very much. Just this. If at least one of these solutions were adopted, we have the opportunity to reexamine this interpretation by tomorrow and perhaps find a better solution. We believe that we have proposed the right solution. It wasn't easy writing another amendment, I assure you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u409	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u410	I would like to stress once again, Mr Podobnik: up to a million 600,000 has more than 95% of those in debt, students, their incomes, more than 95%! [[Back-up advertising.]] No, I said, up to a minimum wage that's not taxed, there's 91. That's saying, what you want now is essentially an extension to the 3,4% that have this revenue over a million 600,000.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate and make the decisions? I ask you now for attention so that we know how we're going to decide. First, I will put to the vote the amendment of the Young Slovenia Party, which is set out in point 2 on page 5 of the amendment review. The third amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party is essentially the same. If one of these two or these two are adopted, the subsequent amendments of the Slovenian People's Party are irrelevant. Yes - correction, and the extra one, because we understand each other! So I am putting to the vote the amendment of the Youth Party to Article 108 on page 5 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party on page 6, under point 3, which are identical. May I have your attention, we will vote on this. We're voting. There were 57 of us present, 14 votes in favour, 41 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment didn't get any support. I will therefore now put to the vote the revised amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 108. So that amended amendment that was written under point 1 on page 5. May I have your attention, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 11 votes against 38. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] This amendment has not been supported. And now I'm going to make this amendment, and I'm going to read it again, it's short for Article 108. The first paragraph deletes the text 'and its revenues which are subject to taxation under this Act in the year for which it is administered do not exceed a million 600,000 tolars'. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 6 votes against 41. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 41.]] This amendment didn't get any support either. With this, after seven hours, we have passed through the articles and amendments to the Income Act in the context of the second reading, which I conclude with this. The National Assembly will be Minister, would you like a word? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u412	Dear Members and Members! In view of the fact that in the second reading of the amendments adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended Income Act, I propose that a third hearing be held in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u413	Thank you for your proposal. The third treatment may take place after 24 hours. Such is the explanation of our rules of procedure, which must be respected. It has already been presented here by the President of the National Assembly, and we cannot change it at the next point. So - colleague Anderlich, is that what you were going to say? Now I'll give it to you unless we work tomorrow night. [[...]] The National Assembly will therefore hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. Explanation of the vote, Comrade Rokavec, on a proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u414	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this proposal for a decision. If we have at least a little discretion, we can find out that tomorrow at 19:00 and 29 minutes, the business deadline will only be 24 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u415	Comrade Rokavec, I have just proposed that we be at the next meeting, and only that the government should draw up a proposal for a third-reading law. I put this proposal to the vote. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 50 present, 42 for, 4 versus. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] The decision is adopted. This also concludes the agenda item on the proposal for a law on income. Colleagues and colleagues, we're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE COST LAW, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. With regard to this item on the agenda, three proposals for laws have been tabled in the legislative process: Please note that we are continuing our work. [[...]] Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on excise duties, EPA 1322-III, second reading submitted to the National Assembly on 15.9.2000 by a group of Members with the first signed by France Kangler. Then the proposal for a bill supplementing the Law on excise duties of EPA 127-III was submitted to the National Assembly on 23.2.2001 for consideration by a group of Members with the first signed Davorin Terčon, followed by Mario Gasparini and Alexander Merlo. A third proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties, 1199-II, was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 19.3.2004. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided, in the course of its deliberations on those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with a third of Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, he decided that the following procedure, in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure, would lead on the basis of a proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure for the Complementary Explanation of the Proposal for a Law, I call on all co-proposals of the bill, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, France Kangler and Davorin Terčona, Maria Gasparini and Aleksandr Merl. Which one of these wants a word? A representative of the government? Secretary of State, Mrs. Milojka Kolar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u416	Thank you. I'll be very short. As you know, we changed the excise law last year and then adapted all the solutions required by full membership in the European Union. In the meantime, the European Union has adopted a so-called new directive, an energy directive, which is why today this proposal for amendments to the excise law is before you. With this new directive, these amendments determine the amount of excise duty for products not yet of a excise nature. In addition to mineral oils and gas, excise duties are taxed on so-called energy, such as coal, coke and electricity. At the same time, the law takes into account the approved transitional period, which runs until 1 January 2007 for electricity and 1 May 2004, when the amount of natural gas to date is expected to be lower than the European minimum laid down in the Directive. New higher excise duties are also to be determined only for those mineral oils and gas that have not reached the minimum amounts laid down in the Directive, namely air and leaded petrol and kerosene for propulsion purposes. The bill also contains additions to the definition of excise warehouse owners, given that we are entering the single market. This authorisation will also be granted to a person involved in the trade in excise goods, thereby allowing existing importers of excise products from other EU Member States to maintain the same way of taxation as they had before 1 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u417	Thank you very much for the introductory explanation of the bill. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, who will present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy had to deal with two other laws, namely the Law on Complementation of the Law on Excise, in order to be included on the agenda of the Government's proposal. [[EPA 1322]] submitted to the National Assembly on 15.9.2000 by a colleague, Franz Kangler, and in addition to the draft law on the supplementation of the Law on excise duties [[EPA 127]] which was submitted to the procedure on 23.2.2001 by colleagues Davorin Terčon, Mario Gasparini and Alexander Merlo. At the outset, the Committee decided whether those draft laws would be dealt with under the same agenda item. In accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee decided at this meeting on the basis of which of the three proposals for laws it would draw up a supplementary proposal for a law. On the basis of the same provision of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee then decided which content of the other draft laws was to be included in the proposal for a government law. We have found that none of these two proposals are appropriate to include them in the draft law. Finally, the Committee decided that the Government's law would be the basis for the updated draft budget and then, in the light of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we have amended individual articles 13, 16 and 18 in order to prepare the supplementary draft budget, which is now before you, and I hope that today will also be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u419	Thank you very much for this report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I will give the word of John Christmas in the order of those present. Position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Position of the Slovenian People's Party parliamentary group on the proposal for a bill amending the excise law. Although we have already aligned our excise system with the European Union excise Directives at the end of last year, the proposer has sent us a proposal for amendments to the already harmonised law in order to further adapt to the requirements of Council Directive 2003/96 on the reshaping of the framework of the Community for taxation of energy and electricity. We note that we are likely to have a lot of such directives in the future, and we will often end up with legislation. The applicant states that Slovenia has committed itself to taking this new directive into its legal order by 1 May 2004 and that Slovenia has only required a transitional period for electricity by 1 January 2007 and natural gas by 1 May 2014. The transitional period for electricity allows the Directive itself, while the European Economic and Social Council has proposed that it be approved by the European Council on a transitional period for natural gas, provided that the date of natural gas consumption does not reach 25% in the total final use of natural gas. The proposed law thus transposes in the Slovenian legal order the whole Council Directive 2003/96 and the specific solutions proposed by the Commission to the Council in respect of natural gas taxation. In doing so, we are disturbed by the fact that the applicant does not explain whether the transitional period of natural gas has been approved and in what content our country of Slovenia has proposed. It follows from Article 13 of the law that the excise duty on this gas is nevertheless imposed by Article 13, paragraph 13, of the proposal, setting a reduced rate of 1,50 tolars per cubic metre by 1 May 2014. We believe that, for the purposes of this meeting, it is almost imperative that the applicant clarify the situation in the transitional period and, if at all, what is the substantive characteristic of this transitional period. In other parts, we agree with the applicant, as he has addressed some open issues, the adopted amendments to the excise law already adopted in autumn, in particular in the part of allowing the excise warehouse to be granted to a person who deals only with excise goods and in the part of the application of the excise document by the exempt user. We believe that these two solutions are positive because they are moving towards greater opportunities for the movement of excise products between Member States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u421	Thank you very much. Does he want the word Cyril Pucko for the position of the LDS Club? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u422	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support this proposal of the law. In particular, for reasons to follow what was explained in the applicant's opinion. At the same time, we will also support the amendment tabled by our parliamentary club. It is clear from the explanation why this amendment is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u423	Thank you very much. Does Bogdan Barovic wish to speak in favour of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u424	Thank you, Chairman. Here. The Slovenian national party is always awake. At least 25% in attendance. And that's where we can praise the woman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Well, it's right to know, or to realize that the excise law has been amended four times so far. I think it's the first time in 1999, 2001 twice and the last time in 2003. Well, we'd be glad it would be like this once. However, when the last amendment to the excise legislation reached compliance with the European directives in autumn 2003, Europe, of course, - I think in October 2003 - came up with a new directive and the result is here. We have also heard explanations from government representatives about excise duties, the novelty of electricity, coal, coke, gas and mineral oils. Well, stories around transitional periods could be spread, but I don't think it's "fair" that we're talking about these things here today. It is true, however, that Slovenia wanted a transitional period for electricity and that it did not receive this transitional period because the European Commission said that the directive itself made it possible for the transitional period to reach a minimum rate. That is why I would also like to join the already asked question - I think today - if we could know a little bit more about what this means by 1 January 2007 only the transitional period laid down by the Directive. And if there is any difference between the transitional period required by the State and those defined in the Directive. I would also ask the Government's distinguished representatives, if they can confirm that they are convinced that the bill will have no significant financial implications or what this means, "essential" - but we are interested. I hope, however, that it is already in preparation, at least so I hope, that a comprehensive excise law will be drawn up, once but for all, and I hope that it will bring with it some of the minimum permitted standards that the Slovenian citizen would, of course, survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u425	Thank you very much. He would like to speak with Leopold Grošelj as a member of the group. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u426	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We are on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy when, as a member of the Committee on Finance, I have supported both decisions, both of which refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the law submitted by Ambassador Franz Kangler and we have concluded together that it is not suitable for further consideration. The same is true of the second draft law tabled by Mr Davorin Terčon and Mr Mario Gasparini. We have also found together that it is not suitable for further consideration. In the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, I also felt that the amendment of the law was not prejudiced to a fundamental principle of the applicable excise law, but merely to the fulfilment of the obligation to take over the new Directives 2003 and 996 by 1 May. For this position, which has been transmitted, we have jointly agreed in the Group of Members to support this amendment of the law, as well as the amendment to Article 13 of the bill amending and supplementing the excise law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u427	Thank you very much. Does Dr. Bernick want a word? Position of the New Slovenia Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u428	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Secretary of State. There is nothing special to say that has not already been said about this novelty of marriage. But there are some things we miss. Firstly, there is no financial data in the explanation on how these changes will affect Slovenian finances. Secondly, the government was against the amendment that was tabled to take advantage of the possibility for the European Union to reduce excise duties in the border zone, which would somehow respond to what our good Italian neighbours have done years ago and have hurt us for as much as a few hundred thousand euros each year. I wonder what the government intends to do in this regard? And when will she do that? And where? Will this apply only to Italy or to our border, the border zone with Italy? Will she be able to extend this right anywhere else? However, it is also so that we have followed the directives of the European Union when it is necessary to close duty-free trade at borders, and I think that, if I may say so, our right to do so should also have an impact in the European Union in order to be given this concession by reducing excise duties in the border band. And I want to know when you expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u429	Thank you. This part of the debate took place on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I would like to conclude a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We're moving to second reading. In the second reading, we have two amendments to the same content, one being tabled by Member Zoran Gračner, who cannot table an amendment by the Rules of Procedure, but only by the Group of Members, so the LDS Club has submitted it in the same content. I am putting the proposed amendment of the LDS to Article 13 into the debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the proposed amendment to Article 13. We are moving on to a decision on this amendment. I ask colleagues and colleagues who are close to joining us so that we can make a decision. I propose an amendment to Article 13 of the LDS to the vote. We're voting. Only 34 of us are present. I will put the amendment to the vote another time, and then we will take a break, like the rules of procedure. We'll vote next time. We're too small this time, too. I'm taking ten minutes off. We'll get back to work at 8:00. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u430	Thirdly, we will decide on an amendment to the amended bill amending and supplementing the excise law. This amendment was tabled by the LDS Parliamentary Group. We decide the third time. I'll ask for your attention. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 56 in attendance, 42 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] That's how we concluded the second treatment. Does anyone want to table an amendment to the amendment just adopted under the third? If not, then we could move on to a decision-making hearing on the law as a whole. I have not notified that the proposal for a text would be inconsistent, not by the government or by the legislative and legal service. Anybody want an explanation? Can we move on to a decision on the law? We are voting on the law as a whole. 57 present. 45 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] The law has been passed. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the Council also adopt two decisions to conclude that the draft law proposed by Members is not suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want to discuss these conclusions? I will put to the vote a proposal for a decision first, please. The proposal for a bill supplementing the excise law, the second reading, is not suitable for further consideration. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Excuse me? [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Just a minute. [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] The Chairman of the Finance Committee, is there something wrong? [[...]] I'm looking at you. You'll probably be most competent to tell me. Is the procedure okay? We need to figure out this conclusion, don't we? Please. Are you helping me? We have two motions for a decision you're proposing. The first proposal is: "The Law on Complementing the Law on excise duty, the second reading, is not suitable for further consideration." No, look, I don't want us to run the procedure if a part of Parliament thinks that there's something unclear. We'd rather clear things up before we decide. That's how it's recorded in the script, and I think it's okay. That's what I'm told. Here's the chairman of the committee. Does the President of the Committee consider that anything is wrong with this procedure? Please, Comrade Anderlich. Let's get things straight, then we'll decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u431	Although I don't know how you write in the script and it's not very important about the rules of procedure. It is clear from the Rules of Procedure that there are reasons for the adoption of legislation under an urgent procedure that can only be proposed by a government after, of course, this law passes on to others. And they're practically those two marriages, and the report said they were called that. In the report, if you'd listened to him, that would have been the case. As a matter of fact, this decision should be given at the beginning of the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u432	The fact remains that the Committee has proposed two conclusions. And we have to decide about them! If you don't, I'm gonna break this point and we're gonna go to the next one and figure out the facts. I don't want us to do anything wrong. So now we're done with the marriage. In my opinion, and also here at the President's table, it is not disputed that we must decide on these two proposals for conclusions, but that something would not be wrong, I will break the point and go to the next one and then return to it. We're 14. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE - CONSTRUCTION OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE TaxES ON MOTOR VEHICLES, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Does the Secretary of State want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] This bill was also addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Does the president want a word? [[Not at all.]] Then, if they so wish, we will first hear representatives of the groups of Members. Want a colleague, Kebrich? [[No, no, ……]] He wants a colleague of mags. A viscous? [[Not at all.]] Would you like a friend of mine for Christmas? [[He doesn't want to.]] My friend Stemberger? Please. My colleague Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u433	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. Thus far, the tax on motor vehicles has been charged as an import duty and import price and customs duties have been used as the basis for the calculation. However, by entering the European Union, this tax cannot be considered an import duty because the customs duty on non-European cars in the European Union is the same for all. In addition, the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act considers the basis for calculating the value added tax, which has not been explicitly taken into account so far. As the tax on motor vehicles cannot now be excluded from the value added tax base, it is essential that customs duties be eliminated from the basis for calculating the tax on motor vehicles, otherwise imported vehicles not of European origin will be paid, for the first time, a single European customs duty, a tax on motor vehicles on customs duty and, in the end, a value added tax on customs increased by a tax on motor vehicles. This means, of course, that the new law should specify the basis for the tax on motor vehicles in such a way that there is no customs duty. If this is not the case, the customs duty will be paid on motor vehicles and on both combined value added tax. This, of course, means triple taxation for non-European vehicles, which is not in line with the principle of equality and uniformity of taxation. That is why we have also tabled an amendment in our Group of Members. In view of the urgent procedure, it may not be substantively referred to in the article to which we have submitted it, but the other articles have not been opened, so we also appeal to Members and Members to accept this amendment, because this will have no effect on the amount of the tax paid on motor vehicles, as it is now, according to the news, that there will be another 20% of the value added tax that has not been paid before. So, in fact, there are no negative or positive effects here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u434	Comrade Pucka, do you want to be a member of the club? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Peca is not present. Colleague Montenegro A, colleague Barovic wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u435	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Well, when people who know that laws are changing read a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, they first ask themselves what is going to increase or encourage again, given the fact that motor vehicles have been burdened by several types of duties so far, so from the traffic of motor vehicles, value added tax and motor vehicles, and the annual reimbursement for roads at the time of registration and taxes, I think, in 2003. The objective is to understand and understand that the aim of the amendments to this law is to bring it into line with the legal order of the European Union, of course relating to transport within the internal market with the Member States of the European Union. A little more encouraging for those who are interested is that it is not, at least so said by the proposer, his intention to change the amount of the tax liability in the purchase of a motor vehicle, but only to introduce a new way of collecting this obligation. This is because, until now, this obligation has been collected by the customs authority and after 1 May, the obligation to calculate the tax on motor vehicles will be transferred to persons who will acquire motor vehicles. Of course, there are two sides that are or are not satisfied with such alignments. However, there may be another important information that applies to all those interested in this tax, which we can also claim to be encouraging and correct, and that is why we will also support this proposal in the Slovenian National Party, but that the law introduces the possibility of reducing the tax rate for environmentally friendly vehicles. Of course, it will be very interesting to know how such vehicles are valued and evaluated at all. Finally, there are financial consequences, which say that the law will have a negative financial impact on the state budget, due to the newly introduced exemptions for greener vehicles. If that is the case, I hope that we will move it, except, and we hope so, if so, this financial deficit will not compensate in any other way. Let's hope not. The Slovenian national party will support or not oppose the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u436	Thank you very much. My friend Bernick. No, he does. You will present your position, please, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u437	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues. The New Slovenia Group will not oppose amendments to and additions to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, because it is a harmonisation law with the directives or acquis of the European Union. Thus, a single market for goods, capital services, etc. is being set up, and therefore for motor vehicles there is a harmonisation of the market for goods. The provisions must be written in such a way that they do not jeopardise the free movement between Member States established by any unjustifiable preferences or the establishment of fiscal borders between Member States, which is now being abolished. This raises questions about how to deal with fuel fuels in order to maintain an ecologically clean environment and avoid greenhouse gas emissions in the environment. On the other hand, these taxes relating to the purchase of cars raise the problem of the competitiveness of the economy in a given country if it has too far-reaching tariffs. The amount of tax should be such as to stimulate less fuel or fuel consumption with more harmful emissions and to maintain the level of competitiveness of the country. These changes will, as the government itself says, result in a certain deficit in revenue in the budget, due to environmental relief. Nothing is written about how the government is going to replace you. Maybe she'll remember some kind of offset deficit, but that's not the right solution, or maybe she'll switch to the next government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u438	We are going to a second reading of amendments and articles. We have paragraphs 4, 7, and 12. Amendments have been tabled with them. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party shall submit an amendment to Article 4, the Youth Party's delegation to Article 7 and the three Member Clubs, LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS to Article 12a. Anybody want to talk? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u439	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Article 4 opens Article 5 and now is the opportunity to correct one matter in Article 5, which is somehow dictated by the experience of practice. In Article 5(2) of this basic law, we give the possibility of exempting this tax from a large family who buys a new vehicle for so long. But in practice it appeared because there is no definition of what this new vehicle is, that it could not be bought, say, a vehicle that is practically new, testable, but has a substantially lower starting price. However, since this definition of what this new vehicle represents already deals with value added tax, we would simply like to transpose it into this law and give it this option. See, in no way do we weaken the law, and somehow put it to the will and use of those who take advantage of it or give it to them to make more rational use of it. In this case, a new second paragraph would, of course, be added under our amendment in Article 2(5), as stated in the amendment, which would describe the definition of a new vehicle contained in the first paragraph of this point. The same as in Article 11a of the VAT Act. This gives us an opportunity, as I said, that a family with more children will also be able to buy a car, like a test car, which is less than 6 months old and has not been transported more than 6,000 kilometres. We're just going to take a positive look at these families. That's why I'm asking you to support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u440	I saw my hand behind you somewhere. Who else wanted a word? Someone else wanted a word. No, no one to Article 4? Then we can vote on it. You want it, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u441	Thank you for your word. The government disagrees with the proposed amendment because it introduces confusion about the definition of the new means of transport. In fact, only for the purposes of one point of law, as has been said. This also reduces the legal security of taxpayers for a tax on motor vehicles. Otherwise, the definition of the means of transport is defined both in Article 3 of the Basic Tax Law on Motor Vehicles or in Article 2 of the Law and relates to the actual first registration of a vehicle in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Other European countries also use similar or similar starting points and practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u442	Anyone else want a word? Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u443	Thank you very much. Okay, I accept and I understand the reasons for Mrs State Secretary, but the fact is that practically this vehicle is new and these families cannot buy it because of such a definition. In the value added tax law, in article 11a, where we define what vehicles are, we speak for new vehicles as well, what is considered to be "no more than 6,000 kilometres of land motor vehicles are carried by land motor vehicles", and then we talk further about vessels which are not subject here. But this option is also taken into account for the new vehicle. And I don't know why we'd be more papal here than the Pope and not give this opportunity - what are we going to change into? This tax will not be taxed by the state, but it doesn't matter whether this family buys a new car from the salon, which, let's say, costs 8 million or how much, this same car, which was tested and is, say, made 3,000 kilometers, the same yearbook and everything, but it's, say, a million and a half cheaper. With this we have not deprived the country of anything, but we have gone on hand with these families, and we have not changed in any way the purpose of the law or the concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u444	Anyone else? Then we'll move on to the decision. We are under the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 4. We're voting. 57 present, 15 for and 34 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 34.]] He wasn't accepted. The Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party shall submit an amendment to Article 7. We're making a decision. 55 present, 15 for and 30 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 30.]] We have an amendment to Article 12a of the three groups of Members. Anybody want a word? We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 57 present, 40 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] We have now completed the vote on the amendments. Article 12a is open. Anyone want to put an amendment to this? If not, then we can move on to a decision on the law. I have not informed you that the text of the proposal would be inconsistent. Can we decide on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Motor Vehicle Tax Act? I don't see a contract. We're voting on the law. We're voting on the law. 59 present, 50 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 50.]] [[1 versus.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. Now, as far as the previous agenda item is concerned, it is best that we take a night to see exactly how it is right to conduct the procedure. We have guided it as proposed by the report of the Committee on Finance. However, if it is possible or even necessary to lead the matter through another procedure, it is necessary to take time to do so. So tomorrow we'll finish the point that we broke up earlier. At 8. We've got our agenda. PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BANKING LAW Here too is the proposed ministry or government, the Ministry of Finance. The Committee on Finance has also considered this. Would any of the qualified discussers like to introduce themselves? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I have a written colleague, Kebric, who doesn't want to, a colleague of Vision who doesn't want to, a colleague of Christmas who doesn't want to, a colleague of Pucko, and a colleague of Barovic would like to present the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u445	Yes, it's our duty. We reviewed, found that the Banking Act, which was adopted in 1999, was amended twice, in 2001 and 2003. We have found that, above all, compliance with the Directive should be justified, and when we have identified what areas of harmonisation are needed, it should be mentioned to all that it is a matter of complementary supervision of banks, insurance companies and investment firms, that it is a matter of complying with the directive in relation to one bank permit, namely, compliance with the law on offences. With regard to the financial consequences, we believe there should be no financial consequences. After assessing the need to comply with the directives and in good faith that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act is well prepared, we will not oppose the proposal in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u446	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. My friend Groschel. [[He doesn't want to.]] Dr. Bayuk's friend is missing. Can we move on to a decision? We're in second gear. If I'm correctly informed the amendments weren't filed, or was it? It is an amendment, this is an amendment tabled by a group of LDS, ZLSD and DesSUS clubs. Anybody want to talk about him? This is an amendment to Article 19. Can we decide about him? We decide on the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to Article 19. We're voting! 55 present, 43 to, 2 to. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. In the context of the third reading, if anyone wants to, he could therefore submit an amendment to this Article. I don't see that kind of interest, which means we can move on to deciding on the law. Since I have no notice that the text of the law would be mutually inconsistent, does anyone want a word before making a decision? We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting! I'm asking for peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote on the law. 56 present, 48 for, 1 up. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] The Banking Act has been passed. This point is closed. We are at the 12th item of the agenda, slowly approaching the end of today's work. We have a 12th item on the agenda. PROPOSAL OF A AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION LEGISLATION ON INVESTMENT FUNDS AND MANAGEMENT SOCIETIES. This law will also be dealt with by emergency procedure. Here are the proponents, representatives of the government. I ask, do they want a word? Chairman of the committee, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I ask the qualified representatives of the parliamentary groups, do any of them want a word? My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u447	Thank you very much. We believe in the Slovenian National Party, we hope that we can believe the objective of this law, which is to take as much account of the regulation of the investment funds as possible. I stress, therefore, that it takes as much account as possible of the arrangements for the operation of investment funds as the Member States of the European Union know, which have more experience with this and, of course, a long tradition. In addition, by allowing the European Community’s investment funds in the Republic of Slovenia to operate this way, I stress once again, which is no less favourable than what is applicable to investment funds. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the draft law because we believe in the objectives and their effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u448	If no one wants a word anymore, the amendments have not been tabled, we could move on to deciding on the law. Anybody want to explain their voice before that? If no one wants to do this, we will vote on the law. We're voting on the law. We're in the middle of a vote. The law has been passed. 57 present, 47 for and no one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been passed. The point is closed. Let's move on. We're at 15. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE. We will discuss the proposal for a law on the inventory description and on the excessive stocks of certain agricultural products, the urgent procedure. Let me ask you, do qualified editorials want a word, representatives of the parliamentary groups? There are no amendments. Take it easy. Don't burn the water. We can decide on the law, I have no notice that it would be inconsistent. We decide on the law. Peace in the hall. 52 present, 43 for and none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been passed. Dot's closed. We're at 9. POINTS OF THE DAY’S ORDER, THAT’S THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS TO THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE AUDITIONAL ORIGINATION LAW. Any of the qualified pimps want a word first? No, no, no. From qualified representatives of parliamentary groups? No, no, no. We have tabled amendments. I will now open the debate on them and we will also decide on them. Three of them have been invested. We're in second treatment by emergency procedure. The LDS Member Group, the ZLSD Group and DeSUS shall submit to Article 1 of the amendment. Anybody want a word? Nobody. We decide on the amendment to Article 1. There's 57, 44 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] Roger that. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and the New Slovenia Group are proposing an amendment to Article 2. Anybody want a word? Peace in the hall. We vote on the amendment to Article 2. We're in the middle of a vote. 57 in attendance, 37 in and 13 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 13.]] We have yet another amendment to decide on, namely the amendment to the new Article 4a proposed by the three parliamentary groups, the LDS, the ZLSD and the DeSUS. There's too much unrest! We cannot continue to make such a decision. If no one wants a word anymore, we will decide on the proposal for a new Article 4.a. We're voting. 57 present, 43 for and 6 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're in third reading. Would anyone like to submit a supplement to the articles that are open? [[No, no, ……]] I have no information that the text would be inconsistent. Can we make a decision about the law? I don't see any contracts. We decide the whole law. We're voting. 57 present, 48 for, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're done for tonight. We left the last point open. Once again, we have guided it as the Committee's report has pointed to. I would ask the chairman of the committee to coordinate or coordinate the procedure with the leadership of the National Assembly tomorrow morning so that there is no misunderstanding. Tomorrow we will start the agenda by taking note of the resignations of ministers, by items as set out in the agenda, and by the end of the meeting. By tomorrow night, have a nice evening!
