ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u1	Good morning and good, good day to all! We will continue the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Anton Anderlic. In this regard, a group of ten Members with me, as first-signed, requested that a debate be held in the National Assembly. Let me just remind you that in the autumn, very intensive and successful discussions were held with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, with an agreement being reached that this text is the appropriate basis for the introduction of the law into the procedure. This is a demanding law that requires a two-thirds majority. My friend Anderlich will probably have an introduction as the first to sign. My friend Anderlič will present the text. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u2	Your Honor! Since the referendum and the firm determination of Slovenians and Slovenians or nationals and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to join the European Union, it has also been necessary to reflect on the conditions under which the State, institutions of the State, in particular the Government and the National Assembly, will operate after entry and even in these final stages. Therefore, following the amendment of the Constitution, Article 3 of the Constitution it is already stated that the National Assembly will adopt a special law that will regulate the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly. It is a matter of providing, on the one hand, an opportunity for a common, flexible, responsible response of the government to what the legislator will actually be doing under new conditions within the European Union, on the other hand, that this will not go beyond the highest elected body of representatives of the people, i.e. the National Assembly, Parliament. There were a few ideas at the time. They were tested variants they use, according to the so-called Finnish model, and on the other hand the Danish model. It is the fact that some would like to see as little consultation as possible with the National Assembly and the least binding positions of the National Assembly for Government. On the other hand, there is some fear that the government would not be too quick to decide on matters that would have a fatal long-term impact on the country, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And in weighing one or the other regulation, there was then some compromise that you have in the bill, which was signed by Members from all the Members' groups, by making it clear that in this general debate, as well as in the debate at the second reading, and finally in the drafting of the final text, that it will also be possible for Members to supplement this law with their views. In this procedure, the government has not cooperated as a bill-maker, which is understandable, but has included comments, views which are also an integral part of these materials, and we will probably also speak about them today and in the preparation of the second reading text and take due account of the opinions of Members and Members. In this part, it will also be necessary to amend the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, that is, the part where we are talking about, on the one hand, the government's attitude and reporting to the working bodies of the National Assembly. It is envisaged that we would have so-called European labour bodies or two European labour bodies and, of course, labour bodies, which are native to individual areas in the national council on issues to be addressed. It will therefore be necessary to provide for this further in the coordination of work in the National Assembly, in the manner in which the National Assembly works, in order to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] There has been an expression of everything that needs to be heard from the native working bodies and, of course, what should be taken into account by the working bodies, the so-called European bodies. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u3	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich, the first to be signed under the bill. I will now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. In order, first of all, to the representative of the government. Can I help you? Please, Mr Engelman, Deputy Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs. Excuse me, of course you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I believe that this law must take into account the good experience of Slovenia's past period of integration into the European Union, which I think was also pointed out yesterday. And which makes Slovenia recognised in international eyes as the best-prepared accessionist. In particular, let me point out the ambiguities which are particularly important in the consideration of this law, and this is good cooperation between the national assembly and the government throughout this period and the high transparency of the whole process and in particular of Slovenian views, both in the consideration of the national assembly and in the public. And there is no reason why we should not continue this practice under the conditions of membership in the European Union. The Government has examined the proposal for a law and has adopted a position to provide that proposal as a suitable basis for initiating the hearing in the National Assembly, while at the same time the Government's view is that it would be appropriate to consider that some solutions could be complemented. This was due in particular to the reasons imposed by the successful functioning of the country in the European Union, which is essentially due to the need to take into account that, in the initial stages, it is necessary to draw a comprehensive and uniform view of the individual issue, that the number of cases being dealt with at European Union level is very large, that there is a need to make rapid decisions at individual stages, as individual compromise proposals come literally to the table and that it is particularly necessary to settle the period after Slovenia's entry into the European Union when we are involved in the procedures that have been under way for some time and are in some cases just before adoption. For reasons of ease of work and clarity, the Government has therefore attached to the opinion a proposal for possible additions to the law with explanations to illustrate its views. If I somehow overthrow them, they refer mainly to the provisions of the law that define the procedures which, due to the nature of the work in the council, are more difficult to implement or, in some cases, are not even feasible. Therefore, the Government considers that it would be appropriate to specify in more detail the procedure for informing the national assembly in order to make this primarily through the information system, the electronic information system, as paper becomes history in the European Union. Then also in the participation of the National Assembly in the formulation of positions, where we feel it would be appropriate to take into account a timetable which is linked to the procedures in the European Council and the Council of the European Union, so that the positions can be drawn up within a certain time frame or otherwise, unless Parliament considers the position to be taken automatically then the Government's position as an official position, which is practice, I will also say in other Parliaments. In addition, the government believes that it is necessary to clearly define the Government's position at the time of entry into the European Union and also to inform the national assembly of European matters that started before Slovenia's entry into the European Union, I would say, that there are certain specific rules which are unfortunately the same for all accessions. Then there are comments on the provisions of the law governing the relationship between the executive and the legislative authorities. The government considers that the so-called Finnish model, which is the most successful in the European Union, should be fully implemented. To put it very simply, the government is of the opinion that it cannot place the responsibility of accepting positions at the national assembly. Nor could the National Assembly interfere with the powers of the Government. The comments then go also to the provisions concerning the definition of bodies of the European Union institution. The government proposes that only the European Council and the Council of the European Union be mentioned throughout the law. These are the only institutions or bodies where the government officially represents and represents the Republic of Slovenia and where it can also indirectly decide the national assembly. The comments then also refer to changes in the definition of the founding contracts, where there is a need to distinguish between parts of the primary legislation, including the provisions of the EU Treaty. At the same time, the government also considers that all European cases should be dealt with in the same way as the public, that there is no reason for different treatment [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] whether it is the responsibility of the Government or the National Assembly and whether it is still necessary to consider some editorial corrections that would lead to greater clarity. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We will now hear a presentation of the groups. First, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by a colleague of Peterle. He's been followed by a colleague of Pohorec. First of all, my colleague, Peterle, New Slovenia's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear government officials! The New Slovenia Group considers that it has succeeded in preparing a suitable basis for the consideration of the law in the first reading after a thorough political and professional examination. It believes that we should continue our cooperation in spirit, as we have established it between Parliament and the government during the associated status of the European Union. Quickly, what Slovenia's accession to the European Union means. The most important thing for us is that the government starts to play a full role in the legislative role, but by then it has already expressed its views in various forms of the world and is actually training as a full-fledged member. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case in this roll-out role to come after a mandate in this National Assembly. What does it mean to change the constitutional article? 3.a Article means that the Government is obliged to inform the National Assembly in due time. Parliament has the opportunity, so it can and does not have to deal with everything it receives from the government. However, when Parliament adopts its position, the Government is obliged to take this into account under Article 3a of the Constitution. What does the law we're talking about mean? It means the possibility of clarifying the provisions of Article 3a of the Constitution, means the establishment of a strong European Affairs Committee under the Scandinavian or Finnish model to decide on behalf of the entire national assembly, and here we have different positions. The New Slovenia Group is particularly attentive to Article 11 and considers that, in particular as different views on the binding political decisions of the National Assembly should be made very precise, on which issues it would indicate that a binding position should be adopted throughout the National Assembly, it is said in the Plenary, thereby strengthening the position of the National Assembly when it comes to very state- or essential matters, if I say so. For the second part, when it is not there, I would say, the highest instance, but it is necessary to specify very precisely how the government can be flexible when it follows our national interests, if its position is different from that of the National Assembly. At that, I think there's work to be done. Otherwise, we read a very consistent 3.a article that says 'government takes account'. Of course, we know examples from other countries where procedures are being developed, how coordination is taking place, when the government in the world itself has to change the pragmatic or flexible position it has come from its own country because of the different positions of others. Here we want the procedures to be clear, transparent. As far as the public is concerned, the European trend is also reflected in the Convention in order to address legislative matters in public. As a parliamentary group, we are in favour of following this trend of the public, except, of course, in cases where the reasons dictate otherwise; we cannot hide here, but in Brussels we can work in a completely transparent manner, in front of the public. With regard to what the government is putting, I would like to say that we need to be clear about the two, that there will be no doubt as to which information flows are involved. Everything shows that the European-level portal will allow direct access to everything that will prove to be a proposal, draft, position, decision at European Union level. There will be plenty of time for the National Assembly to take place. The National Assembly may adopt a position whether the Government sends it or not. However, what we must require in law is that Parliament is immediately informed after the government adopts its position, because otherwise Parliament cannot position itself or mandate governments, as it did during the negotiations. This part of me is concerned that we will be informed by the way; what will be from Brussels will be directly accessible by electronic means anyway. As far as commitment is concerned, I've already said, let's be careful not to get a headache later on due to excessive or soft procedures. This has been tested in Finland for decades and elsewhere, it is said, we do not need to invent warm water. I told you about the public. So, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to prepare, in the spirit that has been in force so far, as uniformly as possible, this law as unanimously as possible, and to implement it as soon as possible, because I think it would be bad that we would not use time until 1 May to introduce both institutions. In fact, it will be difficult from the monthly frequency of the committee's work or two meetings per month to attend weekly meetings. Some Member States that take this very seriously have a meeting twice a week on Wednesday and Friday, for example, and it runs for hours and hours because they are systematically going through the positions that the government is taking to the world, whether it is a financial perspective, the statutes, the protocols or the various directives, and so on. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group is to set up a committee as soon as possible and start a new style of work. But I would like to say something else that seems to me to be one of the most important things in this regard, and this is the role of the mother's labour. If we follow the Finnish model in a consistent manner, then, of course, the first, main substantive debate will take place in the relevant substantive area, first on the working body concerned. For example, if we talk about the financial perspective, it is assumed that this is first considered by the Committee on Finance and then, in a broader context, by the Committee on European Affairs in the presence of people from the Government, the Council of State and civil society, and then we come to a position. In this regard, I would say that, for the time being, we have different views on this, on the right to initiative, who can initiate the initiative even when it comes to a debate at the level of the national assembly. I would be relatively broad, or the New Slovenia Group, in the course of initiatives, would not be very restrictive. We are, however, very specific about what such initiatives can be formally available or available. It is also necessary to say formally what the government has also said in public, not binding on its views, but it is right to look closely at them and see whether we can improve our joint draft on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. After the referendum on Slovenia's integration into the European Union and after its ratification yesterday, we are already in the European Union, and we must answer some of the questions ahead. How will this cooperation between the government and our parliament be? Because working in the European Union is only a little different from the way it has worked in the Republic of Slovenia itself. This marriage is now ahead of us, reflecting some reality that we've found ourselves in. The National Parliament or the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia retains a legislative function, but nevertheless at that part which remains under the full sovereignty of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. However, part of this sovereignty has been transferred to the bodies of the European Union, which is why we must now regulate this ratio of representation and powers in relation to our national Parliament and the bodies of the European Union, of course, also through this law. The legislator, when the government has been given certain new powers and broader powers in relation to matters in the European Union, does not lose - and by this law we will strengthen - the control of the government. This will still be responsible to Parliament and this also imposes Article 4 of the Government Act. We will also continue to be able to control the government through the institutions we have in our constitution and in our Rules of Procedure, so that we are not afraid of losing our full power over this part of the decision-making process. In our Group of Members, we believe that the National Assembly, through its competent committees, should actively monitor the work of the Government in the bodies of the European Union and inform us of these activities. In doing so, we are asked whether the special European committee to be set up to monitor the EU's affairs will be able to monitor, monitor, or also mediate government positions from a purely practical point of view. We must not forget that some things will happen very quickly, faster than we can imagine today, even in the middle of the night, even during the weekend, that it will be necessary to convene this committee on Friday, Saturday or Sunday if it is to be present with the content and the current and such views of the government. It won't be as easy as maybe we can just write it down in some marriage. This will also have to be done in practice, as this operationality of such a committee is an important issue. We also assess that further reflection is needed on the government's commitment to taking into account the views of the National Assembly. We believe that this commitment should exist, especially when it comes to important matters and guidelines for further work on important issues in the European Union. Here we refer to this Article 11 of the bill, which also provides for a plenary hearing of individual matters in the National Assembly, if this Committee on European Affairs, or a quarter of the Members, which is an important novelty or important determination, or on the basis of a college decision, where we also know how a college will come to such a decision. I think that that quarter of the Members, however, is an important part of this law and an institution that will allow if the College does not wish to adopt such a decision by a majority. We believe that it is necessary to define more precisely the government's obligations arising from such conclusions. We are of the opinion that these instruments of control of the State Assembly over the work of the government, on how the government will take into account our views, strategies and the like. Then, of course, we also need to write them down and confirm them further. Among other things, we support the Government's view on these nomotechnic corrections that we have received. And she forwarded them to the National Assembly before this meeting. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners believes that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration and will also support it and will also participate in the further regulation of the law, which will then also meet these new conditions of our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u10	Thank you, Vice President. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly ratified an agreement yesterday on the full integration of Slovenia into the European Union. We believe that the remaining members of the Union will do so and that the Republic of Slovenia will become a full member of the European democratic family on 1 May. That's been our goal for years. It also assumes new obligations for us. For the adoption of this Agreement, with which the Republic of Slovenia transfers part of its sovereign rights to the authorities of the Union, we have adopted the necessary amendments to the Constitution. In view of the particularly important role played by the Government in taking decisions in the Union, we have committed ourselves to resolving the issues of the participation of the National Assembly and the government in these procedures by special law. We have been preparing this law for a long time in agreements between the parliamentary groups and the proposed text has received the support of most of the parliamentary groups and has also been tabled. It was also supported by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. We believe that the proposed text follows our basic requirements. In the context of decision-making in the institutions of the European Union, the government assumes an exposed role, but it is always only a representative of the work of citizens and citizens and of the parties to the national assembly, which is the ruling coalition. The democratically elected representative of all the people, and all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, is only a national assembly as a whole. It is therefore necessary to ensure, in the decision-making processes in the European Union, that, at all stages of the process and when all decisions are taken, the Government will have to ensure the participation of the national assembly on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia as well as on its proposals and views. Moreover, the guidelines adopted and the positions adopted by the National Assembly will also have to be taken into account and, to the greatest extent possible, put into effect. There should be no doubt about this fundamental issue and the relationship. Many of the issues that will be decided in the bodies of the European Union, several stages of the procedure and deadlines for the communication of their own views at each stage require the proper organisation of the national assembly to carry out these tasks. Following the example of best practice in the countries of the present fifteen, we have decided that these roles are always and in any case cannot be performed by the State Assembly as a whole. For this purpose, it should be carried out by a specially designed working body for European affairs and by the Committee on Foreign Policy on certain issues. Its composition must reflect the proportional composition of the National Assembly as a whole. Mother’s working bodies must also be involved in the preparation of his decisions. This does not mean that only Members and Members of this Committee discuss and decide on European matters. No, it is necessary to ensure that all issues decided in the European Union are brought to the attention of all Members of Parliament in good time at all stages of the procedure. This can affect the decision-making of the European Committee through debate and the formation of positions in the parliamentary groups, but can also assess that these are issues that require the decision-making of the national assembly as a whole. And the latter, when and under what conditions the decision-making of the national assembly as a whole should be made possible, was a question on which, until the end of the position of the groups of Members were the most different. In the United Social Democrats Group, we did not want to come from the current position of the government coalition or the opposition party, as some other parties did. This seemed short-sighted to us, because we are not only adopting a law for one mandate and the situation of each of the parties can change. In particular, the law is intended to be drafted in a way that is in accordance with the interests of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, but not only in terms of appearance, because it will make the procedure very complicated, but also in fact because this procedure will also allow for timely decision-making so that the decisions taken by the national assembly can be implemented in the bodies of the European Union. We therefore considered that the requirement for decision-making by the national assembly as a whole should be justified by certain qualified applicants, since otherwise any opposition party could prevent timely decisions from being taken. And we felt that it did not show that it was already pre-announced and that it would provide for how the decision of the national assembly should bind the government in this case, as the interest and need in each individual case would dictate the definition of how much such a decision would be binding on the government. We are aware that the ability to exercise our interests in the bodies of the European Union will depend, in particular, not on the extent to which our positions for government will be binding, but on the extent to which our views are justified, not only with our own, but also with the common European interests, how much we will be able to justify, how we will acquire allies in the previous stages of decision-making, so as to be aware of the proposed decision that the Government may require of the National Assembly, only the extreme means that can be used only exceptionally. We therefore believe that the proposed law provides the basis for the proper regulation of relations between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of European Union competence. In this respect, it is bound and at the same time principled enough to be able to deal with the various situations we will face. That is why Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Mr Tsukaj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, followed by his colleague Štemberger. Let's get my buddy Tucky first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! A bad year ago, we adopted an amendment to the Constitution, which also states in Article 3a: "The government informs the national assembly about the proposals for European acts and decisions and about its activities. The National Assembly may adopt views on this and the Government shall take them into account in its work. The relationship between the National Assembly of the Government is governed in more detail by a law adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the Members present." This change of constitution, of course, has also allowed yesterday's ratification of the accession treaty, and it requires us to adopt the law and this law is now before us. I must say that in Europe, somehow governments are adopting European laws and what might happen is that the European governments of this mechanism are very useful and are writing their own laws. For this reason, there is a warning from the experience of all the members of the European Union so far that national parliaments should take care of this division of power, however, so that national parliaments retain their influence on the adoption of European laws and, of course, their influence through their governments. It points to the so-called parliamentary deficit, which arises from this title if local parliaments do not ensure their position in addressing these issues and in adopting European legislation. At that time, the question arose as to how this relationship should be linked to the decisions of its own Parliament when it represents the country's positions in Europe and when it adopts European laws. It has already been clear that some people want to maintain great government freedom in the light of these views, great freedom, while others have wanted or wanted to commit the government more clearly in some cases to the positions adopted by the national Parliament. And so in the explanation for this constitutional amendment, there is also a text that I will read: the word 'appreciate' does not automatically mean that the government in individual positions of the National Assembly is committed to certain conduct within those international organisations, but the said word does not exclude such government commitment. The way in which the views of the National Assembly are taken into account, which are merely instructive to the Government, which they are compulsory, and to what extent they are compulsory, under what conditions, in what way, the law adopted by the State by the two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present will be governed. This was last year's case, designed to regulate relations between our Parliament and the government. And so we now have a proposal for a law that stipulates that once a year the National Assembly adopts a position on political guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the coming period. These are some general political orientations that I would say to the government, which things to stress, which are less and in which direction to represent their views. Of course, such positions are unique, such as one resolution, I would say, the principled positions for the government, less binding, cannot be binding, as the government generally acts in its decisions on the basis of the current situation. It is therefore envisaged in Article 6 that, however, the two working bodies of our Parliament, which are the working body for European affairs and the working body responsible for foreign policy, deal with each matter from the outside, examine each proposal and give some guidance to the government, some positions which are not binding on the government. Most of the work will take place in such a way, a large majority of the problems will be solved on these committees, but the conclusions of these government committees are not binding, which is normal. Governments leave much room for manoeuvre to take into account other circumstances that they are currently familiar with in their conduct and work in the European institutions. It is only said that when a government in the process of enforcing these positions adopted by the Committees considers that their application or full implementation would not be in favour of the Republic of Slovenia, it may decide otherwise. Of course, it shall inform the national assembly and indicate the circumstances justifying such conduct. After a long-term coordination at the college, where we wanted to find a solution supported by all the parties, we were able to find some form that allows some important issues not only to be dealt with by committees but also by the National Assembly at its plenary session. At these meetings, however, the National Assembly may adopt more binding positions. Of course, the National Assembly shall convene at the request of the College of the National Assembly, at the request of an individual committee which has assessed that this is such an important matter that it cannot decide for itself and that it wants an assessment at a meeting of the National Assembly, or a quarter of its Members. No, and at this meeting the National Assembly may also adopt the position of the Republic of Slovenia. This position, however, is binding for the government. Let me read this article an explanation which is more detailed on this matter. He says: "In such a case, the national assembly shall discuss and adopt the views of the Republic of Slovenia on the European case. These views may, by content, be different and may contain or more general and substantively loose definitions to the case in question, which constitute only a guide for further action. For example, "in this regard, efforts must be made" and so on. However, these positions can be very concrete and constitute a substantive mandatory order, for example, "in view of this issue for the Republic of Slovenia, no different solutions are acceptable than," and so on. Of course, intermediate combinations are also possible, thereby directing the national assembly, through its substantive orientation, to determine how much and what issues are binding on the government." I think we've found a very appropriate solution. Under this solution, all the leaders of the parliamentary groups have signed, except for one party which generally does not agree with the integration into the European Union. We hope that this direction will continue. For in the Government's proposals we have already seen amendments that speak differently. That is, that even in such a case the National Assembly would not be able to adopt binding positions. We think it would be a shame to ease the pressure of the government. We understand the government's desire to preserve as much freedom as possible. Perhaps even the legislative body is disturbing to the government. The government would probably prefer to adopt the laws and all the opinions itself. But in our democracy, we've decided on democracy. This will make the National Assembly play its part as well. Although we will not yet accept the amendments at this meeting, it is to be pointed out that there is a risk that government parties will give up this tendency. I hope that government parties will know and be aware of the situation that if the relationship between the government and the national assembly is addressed, they must also represent this basic democratic principle, that we have the authority of a people who exercise it, of course, through their Members. And to preserve what we have achieved with great difficulty, a coordinated proposal. The opposition, too, had to give up many articles in coordination to a number of amendments, but we have accepted this in the hope that we will find a coordinated proposal here. We found him, we are happy to do so, and we thank the President of the National Assembly for insisting on negotiations and coordination. Many hours have passed, we have sacrificed a lot of time for this, but we hope or believe it was worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u13	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. Mr Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Youth Parties, followed by his colleague Mr Podobnik of the SLS Group of Members. But first, my colleague Štemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u14	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill we are discussing today is specific in many ways. One is that this law is necessary, so it must be adopted as soon as possible, but this time not because it is my government, but because it is required by the Constitution in its new Article 3.a. In addition, to prepare ourselves specifically for action under new conditions of work brought about by the European Union's association. Clearly, much will change, and working in the National Assembly will not be an exception. It is also specific because it is something truly new and, in fact, surprising, because the National Assembly renounces the part of its legislative competence and lends it to the government. It is clear to all of us why we are doing this, and we are all more or less in favour of such a law, otherwise there are open questions or only one, and we hope that we will also do it in the right way. The adoption process itself is specific and unique, creating more or less consensus on the agreement of all parties. This mode of work can be a good introduction and a proper direction for the national assembly to act under new conditions. Therefore, as much as possible by consensus and in the interest of Slovenia, political and ideological differences should be lost as much as possible and lost in importance. It is wise to succeed in the most important projects in the future to achieve the widest possible consensus that will be as close to the will of the people as possible. This applies to both European and our Slovenian home space. The search for consensus and cooperation must also be a principle for our representatives in the European institutions, so that they never forget that they are primarily representing Slovenia and only then the political option they belong to. The proposal itself in the Young Slovenia Party is considered a good one and therefore we support it. It is understandable that certain articles cause skepticism, but new things always do. For example, the Government's fear that the National Assembly will deal too much with technical details is superfluous, as I think Article 4 is clear, that the National Assembly should deal only with what it is competent to do, i.e. legal matter. However, what is the subject of some submarital arrangements will not be dealt with by the National Assembly. The arrangements set out in paragraphs 8 and 9 are also very important, i.e. the way in which the information is communicated. The fact is that Parliament will not receive anything from the European Union is going through a government that must comply consistently with the legal provisions. The fear is here on our side, whether we'll get the grading and everything we're going through in law, so we can work together. The provision that the government can, in its own words, act on its own if it does not get the opinion of the body, I think, is in place, as it will sometimes have to react very quickly. The legal or political responsibility of the government is a good question, but it also applies here that there is no point in accepting something that will not be implemented in practice. In the Young Slovenia Party, we support further consideration and we hope that this law will be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. My colleague Janez Podobnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by his colleague Peče.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The proposal for a law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union is - not to use such very high-level words - one of the very important laws which will determine for future mandates the rate of action of the national assembly, the Slovenian Parliament. However, its contents and solutions are fully determined by the amendment of the Constitution, Article 3.a. Colleagues have already read this, but, for the introduction, we have written that in the procedures for the adoption of legal acts and decisions in international organisations to which Slovenia is transferring the work of sovereign rights - and this, yesterday, with an international treaty of 80 votes for and not one against the referendum will of people, we have also done - so we have transferred the work of sovereign rights and the government informs the national assembly about these matters, so we will set out mechanisms for information. However, the National Assembly can take a position on this and the government will take them into account. The relationship between the National Assembly and the Government referred to in this paragraph is regulated in more detail by the law before us. The soberingness or reality of the new relations enshrined in the European Treaty and the rules of the European Union are enshrined in this law and brought about by the amendment of the Constitution. Today, if we are such great parliamentarians, we can no longer go through a solution that we have written down in the constitution a bad year ago. It is true, however, that we are today discussing the status and competences of national and, in particular, of the European Parliament. The new European Constitution, thank God, I will say, brings greater validity to the European Parliament. And now there will be this paradox that we will only be able to strengthen the role of the national Parliament in a way that makes the European Parliament more powerful and more effective. As for the attitude towards the European Union and the decision-making process, we have taken this path with the amendment of the Constitution. As has already been said, it may also be possible to change the basic concept of Parliament's relationship and functioning. In fact, when Parliament enters into dialogue with the government in these areas under this law - and here is this policy paradox - it will be strong if it is politically divided as little as possible. Large, radical divisions in national parliaments will weaken them in their relations with their national governments. And of course, there is some contradiction in itself, because the essence of parliamentaryism is in its great diversity. But some of the new relations that now await us as we enter into the legal order and relations within the European Union are such that we can convincingly defend national interests there if we are less politically divided in domestic logos. I'm pretty sure that's the way it is. And here I also see a great challenge for Slovenian politics to try to separate where it will be very good for the country. On some other issues, however, our differences should be reversed and in some ways sought to simplify themselves as much as possible on some issues. The main dilemma relates to the role of the National Assembly, which will be included through the government in the legislative process. My colleagues spoke very deeply about this. I wouldn't say that again. I read the government's opinion very carefully. I think that's a good government opinion. I am now in a dilemma, and in the sending group, on which side we stand. Either on the side of the National Assembly, I am one of the signatories to this law, or I simply admit that the government is right in some positions. So there's a relatively hard way to go here. However, I also believe that, as someone who knows how such things are sometimes served, it will be necessary to adopt a law with as much consensus as possible and then to admit that relations between the national Parliament and the national government, in relation to decisions in the European Union, will be a dynamic process. And if we find that our solutions are some solutions that may block or block the government to make the best decisions, then the next team of the National Assembly, with the required two-thirds majority of the Members present, will complement the law. So it's not hopeless in itself. However, I would also like to draw attention to what our colleagues in coordination were trying to convince when we were preparing this law with arguments, and obviously we were not successful. One of the constitutional categories, the state world is "swimming" from these relations and it's nowhere to be found. We don't know if that's a good thing. The Upper House, the principles of the Senate, does not appear to be disappearing from European political practice. Slovenia has an original solution in this area. And as long as we have her, we wouldn't totally reject her. Unfortunately, the State Council will only be involved in these relations in the way the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure provide. And to be honest, this is a very marginal position. And practically his opinions that come to our working bodies are usually lost in piles of papers. And to the Constitutional Institute, which is called the State Council, in this way I give no effect. At times, however, it may be necessary to listen to him. Especially because it is the most authentic home of regional, local, municipal and other interests. And if we want them in some way, in a politically wise way, to withdraw directly from the National Assembly, and say that the State Council is a place for them, then let them express themselves, and at least be invited when we are in dialogue with the government and on the basis of the procedure for this law. As for the comments themselves - today is the first debate - the government has drawn up some views. There's only a few I'd like to comment on. The Government considers that the definition of political direction in Article 13 is too broad in relation to the powers of the national assembly and subject to the regulation of this law, which comes under the constitutional authority, referred to in Article 3, paragraph 3.a. It suggests deleting the text of the word "political". The government is obviously aware of possible traps to come into. But I do believe that Article 13 speaks for the time until May 1st. If I understand the content of this article correctly, this article will be used when Slovenia enters the European Union, and most likely nothing will be wrong if the term 'political orientation' remains in the article. For this is before May 1st, "the National Assembly shall hold a debate and adopt views on political orientations." Articles 1 to 11 shall apply mutatis mutandis as from 1 May 2004. More difficult and serious are some of the government's guidelines on the question of the feasibility of procedures. The government says that more detail should be given to the setting of positions, as well as to the setting of deadlines or timetables that take into account the working procedures of the European Council and the EU Council. Since working procedures in the European Council and in the EU's world may also change, as well as deadlines and deadlines, the solution is also to have these hands and this detailed mechanism entered into the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and not to be the contents of this law. Perhaps this would also be more consistent in this legal system. Clearly, the government says it would be appropriate to supplement the provisions of Article 4 of the Law by committing the National Assembly to take account of the timetable for working in the European Council and the Council of the European Union. Of course we're all on the same boat. The National Assembly and the Government are not two different worlds of the same country called the Republic of Slovenia. This needs to be resolved, perhaps again in the rules of procedure. The government also considers that it would be appropriate to supplement those provisions of the law relating to the information of the national assembly on EU matters and proposes that the national assembly, in the process of addressing and adopting EU matters in the EU world, be informed of EU matters through the electronic information system and so on. We talked about this when we were preparing the marriage, and we felt that this matter could be solved. But there is another issue that may be most substantive and that will be the hardest to solve, and it will also be difficult to form the necessary two-thirds majority. In fact, if we're going to change some of the solutions, we're going to need a quorum for that. The Government considers that the first paragraph of Article 9 should be deleted in accordance with the preceding paragraph in order to ensure that the national assembly has the same access to all EU matters as the government. It is only possible to determine whether an EU case falls within the competence of the national assembly, in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 1, to examine the material and to draw up a proposal for views following an analysis of the implications of the proposal for a Slovenian acquis. The Government shall then simply determine, for this reason, that the present provision of Article 9, paragraph 1, is not feasible. And this is the content that my colleague Tsukati was talking about. This is the key content that my colleague Tsukati spoke about earlier. And here we propose in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that an agreement that we have made with great difficulty, and this was the key content of the agreement that we have signed a proposal for this law, that if we go to complement the proposed law, that we will discuss with the Government thoroughly whether the provision of Article 9(1) is really impossible or what a dictatorship means that the position can only be made after the analysis of the consequences of the proposal on the Slovenian legal order. Perhaps we were here as legislators when we were preparing a proposal for a law that was a little unclear and we could make a correction ourselves so that this article could be fully feasible. For if this article is not fully enforceable, it is, in a sense, one of the key articles of the whole law, then the question is how realistic and feasible the whole law will be. Otherwise, we support the basic orientation of the law in the parliamentary group and will also cooperate with fellow Members in drafting the law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group and colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs will conclude a presentation of the views of the members of the groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! Allow me to start by correcting the speaker statement in front of me. It is not true that the bill was signed by all parliamentary groups, and it is not true that all Members voted in favour of ratification yesterday. The fact is, there were 80 Members for 84 present. This is an essential difference and does not reflect the single will of Slovenian politics and not complete unity in this national assembly. We personally and on behalf of the parliamentary group believe that a similar legal solution, as defined in the draft law signed by representatives of all parliamentary groups, other than the Slovenian National Party, would probably be acceptable and acceptable to some other European countries. However, we estimate that the proposed solution is by no means acceptable to the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the proposal for a law in content, as you offer us for admission, after our assessment of the requirement from the company and policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia, the principle of trust, respect and respect for one branch of power to another branch of authority. However, the fact is that in our country, unfortunately, there is no disrespect, no trust and no respect between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Parliament. We all know the latest events that confirm my words that one authority works with another authority with a fig in its pocket, right in the story of deleted, where one branch of government indicated the possibility of negotiating, while doing something completely different. I think this is a very important case that happened even last week and suggests that unfortunately in this country it is very difficult to reach consensus if we don't get to the so-called "fair play" political game, which is not and I'm afraid that, unfortunately, soon will not. The bill's proposer, Mr Anderlič, said in the introduction that the law was based on the referendum will. Indeed, at the referendum, people in the vast majority decided to join EU integration. However, we estimate that the referendum has nothing to do with this law and cannot constitute a basis for it. Therefore, we do not really agree with the proposaler's first argument on the obligations of this law arising from the referendum. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the applicant's desire and the basis on which he wrote and drafted the law are solely the law governing the concentration of power. In our country - I would stress that - the constitutional regime with the Supreme Act is still in force, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which already lays down, in its general provisions, and determines that we have, in Slovenia, a divided authority in the legislative, executive and judicial sphere, with a view to preventing corruption or preventing abuse of power. However, with the proposed law, you are, of course, trying to equalize or exclude one branch of power. They therefore have the legislative power to exclude both domestic and new foreign matter from the legislative process. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that this is not wise. That, of course, it is much better if existing arrangements remain. And if we already have institutions, then let these institutions work and not just follow up as you try to achieve in ruling parties. But it is true that the concentration of power will result in the abuse of that power. And the fact is that this country, both in Parliament and in the government, has been running a political organisation in bistoo for many years. We also assess that the second basis cited by the applicant is that the transfer of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia to international institutions based on the burdens of individuals in the Constitution did not require such a change, i.e. this law on the elimination of the legislative branch of power. That's not true. I repeat, the national party is also, of course, sorry that such a constitutional change took place, because we knew that constitutional change would not be merely and exclusively in the content as it was written, but reflected itself in such and related laws, which are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or, more specifically, with the general provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the national party's parliamentary group, we express fear, not joy at this law, as we expressed fear yesterday when there was a general euphoria in this national assembly. According to our assessment, the law will be reflected in a negative sense and in particular in the area of non-transparent. In other words, you are legitimizing the non-transparency of the legislative process, the decision-making process and the conduct procedure. And whenever we talk about any law, we all, at least verbally, seek greater transparency. But when it comes to our own work, of course you are destroying this transparency. This law will make the legislative process completely opaque or untransparent. Secondly, this law excludes requests from the public for passive monitoring of the legislative procedure. The fact is that not all Members, not all Members, and not only because of this law will they not know the decisions, they will not know who is taking them, what are their views, but the political unity represented, of course, by the Liberal Democracy in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Liberal Democracy in the National Assembly, will be overturned and blurred into the entire Slovenian policy. In short, we fear that this will lead to what we once had in this country in a common larger area called the SFRY. For all the irregularities that will take place, you will show a collective culprit. Although, of course, this culprit will not be collective, but he will hide individually in this collective. Well, of course, the next negative thing. You will exclude or want to exclude the National Assembly from the legislative process and thereby violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia again. I also wish to conclude with one last thought. You also mentioned that the law will be reflected in yesterday's sense, which means that there will be a high and much talk here in the national assembly about the quality of the so-called European laws, their need, and that you will be all Europhorics, that is, the whole Slovenian government and 80 Members of the public to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia exclusively show and inspire those few positive things coming out of Europe, and you will not do all the other things. And of course the consequences - and that I will not take advantage of this speaker - of these EuroEUFORES of yours already feel this week because you do not know how to take care of anything other than your own political power alone, and you leave people behind our country. We do not intend to support the Slovenian national party to the anti-constitutional law. We still believe in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, believe in the division of power and believe that abuses are prevented through the principle of power-sharing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u19	Thank you very much, buddy. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, a colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs, will present the position of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Fellow Members, fellow Members! The great problem of the large family of European countries after 1 May, 25 million European citizens and 450 million European citizens is how the institutions of the European Union should work to make the decision-making process in the European Union more democratic and responsible and closer to citizens and citizens. The future reform of these lessons, the future reform of the European Union, is going this way. It is our task and opportunity to act in accordance with the best practices of the members of the European Union with 15 in the Slovenian space and thus try to avoid threatening alienation at the start. The adoption of a law following a constitutional amendment is such an opportunity. It can be held undeniably that by accession to the European Union, the government acquires powers that go beyond the competences of its immediate constitutional functioning, as it does, through direct decision-making in the European Union's world, which is in the European Union, that in most cases, in cooperation with the European Parliament, it acquires the powers of legislative decision on the exercise of the work of sovereign rights transferred to the bodies of the European Union. The amendment of the Constitution therefore provides the National Assembly with the possibility and competence to directly monitor, influence decision-making and politically assess the government's activity in European matters. The fact is that the national assembly is not involved and does not participate in the decision-making process in the European Union. Its only option is to cooperate through the government within the framework of the internal legal framework. The government's commitment to the position of the National Assembly can therefore only be internal, since the government, outside the European Union authorities, represents and represents the Republic of Slovenia completely without restriction. Thus, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia announced, at its meeting on 7 March 2003, amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by which it added a new Article 3a in the first chapter, which provides a constitutional basis for the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union and for reasons of abstraction to any other international organisations. The fourth paragraph of Article 3a of the Constitution provides: In the procedure for the adoption of legal acts and decisions in international organisations to which Slovenia transfers the exercise of the work of sovereign rights, the Government shall inform the national assembly of the proposals for such acts and decisions and of its activities. The National Assembly may adopt views on this and the Government shall take them into account in its work. The relationship between the National Assembly and the Government referred to in this paragraph shall be governed by a law adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members present. This is therefore a constitutional basis and an opportunity for us to adopt the law that we have in general. Therefore, it is clear from this fourth paragraph of Article 3a that, for the first time, the Government informs the National Assembly, secondly, informs it of the proposals for legal acts and decisions and of its activities, thirdly that the National Assembly may adopt a position thereon, fourthly that the Government takes these views into account and, of course, regulates the details of this law. The constitutional provision provides for the provision of information to the national assembly on European matters and the possibility of participation in decision-making processes, as well as supervision of the functioning of the government in European matters. The positions adopted by the National Assembly shall be taken into account by the Government in its work. I would like to point out that this does not mean that the government loses the function of exercising its constitutional role on its own, since the proposed law before us regulates in detail the issues in which the government is bound to obtain the views of the National Assembly and how it takes account of them. And when we carefully read the law, of course, we can see this in Article 4 of the proposal, which clearly states: The National Assembly participates in the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in those European matters which, according to its content, would fall within its competence under the Constitution and laws. According to the experience of the Member States of the European Union, 15% of European cases are of this type. And if we turn this into a number, according to the experience of Finland, a country which, when its representatives communicate the information that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia would therefore deal with a maximum of 80 to 100 such matters. This provision of Article 4, the same provision, in its 96th Article of the Constitution, is crucial in the whole law and states precisely that our National Assembly will only deal with those European cases which, according to the content, would be subject to legal regulation. It is not, therefore, a matter of concern and interest to the National Assembly to deal in detail with the technical directives in the field of the internal market, which fall within the competence of the regulation of the under-laws of ministers. It will certainly deal with European Union legislation which will interfere with existing laws or the adoption of new or direct application of these rules in Slovenia, which we will have to apply directly in our work and life. Article 11 of the proposal, which exceptionally allows for plenary treatment, is also crucial. In the light of their comments, it is necessary to clarify here that the request of a quarter of the Members for a special meeting is set out in the Constitution, in Article 85, and is, more than without purpose, an appeal to one third of the Members for the opportunity to convene an extraordinary meeting. What will be the linkage of the decisions in the plenary session, however, will depend, according to the proposal for a law, on each decision of the national assembly, which of course depends on the matters it will deal with. I am completely overthinking that there is also some kind of government intimidation about the speed of EU procedures, which would make it impossible for national parliaments to co-operate and co-operate. The average time is 18 months, from the Commission's proposal to the adoption of the European Union. During this time, the National Assembly or its working bodies may adopt their views not only once, but repeatedly and the successful practice of Scandinavian and other parliaments is evidence of this. Let me get this straight. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, because the National Assembly is expected to continue to play an active role under the proposed law in areas that would otherwise fall within its competence. On the other hand, the proposed law fully allows the Government to take an unspoiled initiative in accordance with its constitutional role as executive and independence within its other constitutional powers. The essential principle that we fully support is, therefore, that the National Assembly retains its legislative function with regard to matters which would otherwise fall within its competence, while the rest remains the responsibility of the Government, where the National Assembly could, of course, be further involved at that time and in those matters where the Government would assess it as necessary or if the State Assembly specifically required it. Last but not least, by adopting this law, at least we hope to avoid, in part, the so-called democratic deficit, because I am sure that MEPs and Members will also be European politicians in the new reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u21	Thank you, my dear colleague. By presenting the views of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy, she concluded a presentation of the views of all parliamentary groups. We will now go to the general debate of Members and Members, in order of order as you have been reported. Comrade Petty Officer has his first word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is high time we passed a law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government on European Union matters. This is necessary because of the functioning of the government and, of course, because of the new institutional and actual form and life that we are looking forward to this year. In fact, we are entering into these preparations, and so is this common life now. In fact, in the current proceedings, the government should take into account Parliament's views, and take more account of them, as key matters are still being decided by the National Assembly. The National Assembly has jurisdiction in this legislation or should have it to monitor the Government's work in its participation in the institutions of the European Union, where it belongs. It affects decision-making, this is a key issue, so we have also highlighted in the debate and also in the drafting of the law the possibility of defining the obligation of views on some key issues. We will have to resolve this within the framework of the amendment. Politically assesses the government's activity, even this is one element that we need to ensure, not only through the way of an institutional confidant that has already allowed us through the constitution, but also, of course, direct work. I am somewhat disturbed by this notion of the national assembly, political parties and governments in the processes of action within the European Union. In particular, look at the colleagues and colleagues, when it turns out that this is the position of the national assembly or government, it is state-of-the-art, it is comprehensive, it is useful for Slovenia, or if it comes forward or if a party’s point of view is immediately reduced, it is at the border of publication or something similar. And all that will happen within the European Parliament through the parliamentary structure is immediately characterized by characterization, and this is the danger of matters coming into the party's waters. Which party in our Parliament is working against the interests of Slovenia? It is, however, a question of which instruments it enforces to enforce public prosperity; this is, and these are different paths. So I can't get rid of the impression that somehow we still have the idea of the Socialist Union of the Working People or in the original form of the Liberation Front. Well, it's not just a guarantee that we're all united, but that we all raise our hands and we all feel the same way. We are establishing new mechanisms, and as far as the implementation of new mechanisms is concerned, I am pleased. However, I am just as concerned about how we will do this, especially in our own backyard, and how we will pursue our interests, economic, cultural and I do not know what else we can apply at the European level. That is why we will have an institutional structure, but the question is about our power, our knowledge, our behaviour that we will make it possible. For this, however, we need to be informed directly by the European Union, or when the government forms its views that it informs us, Parliament, of this. To assess the need for the government itself whether it is necessary to inform the national assembly or not, of course, I do not agree with this concept - with the concept or proposal put forward by my colleague from LDS, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, that it is up to the government to decide. We argue otherwise or complement this by simply adopting binding positions on issues of key importance for Slovenia and this means consistent enforcement for the government. What does commitment mean? Commitment also means that the government is committed to decisions in the institution in which it participates, whether it is the European Commission or whether it is already a firm one. Or find, in view of the difficulties that are, a different position based on the mandate given to it by the National Assembly, on the key issues, of course, otherwise it must vote against. That's it. However, where these positions have a different degree, consultative or whatever, in the light of the relevant relations and the interests of the Slovenian State, they have an assessment of the most appropriate course and the most appropriate decision. Notwithstanding the fact that we have signed this text, we argue that the text is not sufficiently refined to represent a sufficient, necessary decision-making instrument or for the functioning of the government and the national assembly in the process of integration into the European Union. We had already announced that we would propose changes. With regard to the further implementation of how we will be able and how we will exercise our own will, it will also depend on us how we act here. Electronic voting was mentioned. Electronic voting has been complicated for the last time in a law, whether it is taken into account or not. An amendment from the New Slovenia Group was tabled, which was also written in accordance with the business arrangements, in writing but electronically. But electronic writing is still a written form, right? But that was not taken into account. 129th Article - The President smiled slightly, but I give this parable or this pattern so that it does not get so entangled. So how are we going to send this, whether it's paper or it's going to be electronic, or it's going to be both of us, or we're going to do an extra one, and I don't know what else we're going to do, but we're going to use the technology as much as we can to work more on substantive issues, that's the point. That's the point. Above all, so that we don't stay in office decision-making, cabinet decision-making, closed. We have to work in public, these are public affairs. Only if we have an argument that this would be detrimental to the Slovenian State, the Slovenian public interest, is it possible to avoid it in any way, but the criteria for avoiding it must be strictly laid down. Parliament may request a hearing and adopt a position on any matter, Parliament shall decide on its own, the Government shall inform it of all matters and the regulation shall also be written, and Parliament shall, of course, itself assess what is in its interest or what it feels obliged to do as well. Therefore, this proposal, which has been in the process of drafting a basic text to allow an initiative for Members, in a number of Members, is very welcome that Members who have written a 25 are simply taking the initiative and that proposals or materials are taken seriously in this regard and that they also adopt their views in this regard. I believe that the business text meets the conditions for the continuation of the procedure, but that we can also combine some of the strengths and intellectual efforts and make the text perfect so that it will serve us as a good instrument for work. This marriage is not a goal, this marriage is a tool for doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I smiled just because I remembered this complication or the problem created by the amendment to the electronic media trade law. This problem is being addressed, I would like to say, not only to you, but also to the National Assembly, that there are some technical problems here that need to be resolved so that there will be no doubt about the political will of the amendment or the law, including for the one who is obliged to assess whether or not he is being tabled in accordance with the rules. So this is where things go forward. Comrade Brace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, this law is passed in one period when we do not know exactly how things are going to go and are only a basis for the experience of others. Here we see that, on the one hand, some countries take very seriously their government and demand full reporting and bind their positions, etc., to cases where governments are actually very independent in European matters. It seems a little strange to me that we are adopting a law that actually allows the national assembly to express political views, because the national assembly can express a political position regardless of what it says in this law. So somehow this content of the law, because the National Assembly already has the right to express its own political views, is somewhat empty. Now, in European affairs, the National Assembly does not actually have a real role, but not a primary legislative function. In fact, this law is more respect for the constitutional norm than a solid legal structure that would provide for the participation of the government and Parliament. This is about questions that we are actually talking about. When we are talking about original powers, shared powers or support activities, the role of Parliament can, of course, be very different. When the government negotiates in the world and examines some of the powers that fall within this most difficult set of issues of the original competences of the European Union, it will be very attached to the views of many others and, of course, it will be difficult to convince the majority in this House if most people think otherwise than the government in a particular matter. Let's say it's a question of the customs union or the movement of goods, persons, services, etc., this first set. But when it comes to shared powers, of course, flexibility is already greater. Not to mention the third group of competences of the European Union, where the European Union appears as some kind of support mechanism. That is to say, there is an opportunity for Parliament to either shake a lot or put something more decisively. The paradox is possible because these first powers are the most difficult because they interfere most with what is common. Therefore, I think it is right that we are aware of these specificities of the European Union and that we understand that in such a complex institutional structure in the 25 Member States it will probably sometimes be difficult to ensure full consent and to give the government, say, a binding position. So, we are now specifically talking about a few articles, I would like to point out that there may be a somewhat exaggerated or inadequate formulation, that the government once a year, that the National Assembly once a year should hold a general political debate, and that a resolution in this regard should be adopted. I think it's too much to adopt resolutions in the National Assembly. However, it would be very useful if, as long as the Presidency's rotation system is still available, it is true every 6 months when these programmes are presented by individual bureaus - as was the case with the Committee on Foreign Policy - for example, now the Irish Presidency, and then so on - that the government would, of course, at those presentations in the National Assembly, give its clear position on how it views the programmes of individual bureaus. And since the European Commission will adopt a programme for the full mandate, it is logical that we will have to have a very thorough debate at the beginning of this mandate on the main programme objectives of the European Commission, the European Union with this. And, of course, every six months, as long as this system is in force, they are discussing things in concrete terms. In short, I am not advocating a special political act, let's say a resolution, because I am afraid that this will be a paper that we are going to wear out until we fail, but in the end it will be shown that it has no function. The same is true in the European institutions, when we argue about a formulation until we are unable to do so, we finally accept it, we congratulate ourselves and it goes straight into the drawer. So, I appeal to the fact that we are here as rational as possible. The question of openness, the incarceration of meetings, of course, can be a political issue that has a greater weight. But I would have said some kind of formulation here to lay down the principle of openness. The principle of open meetings, even when it comes to European affairs, is quite understandable to take into account the Government's requirements when making a request for the closure of the meeting. Sometimes it's just sensitive themes, it's negotiating points, and I think it's right that when we talk about it, we know that it doesn't matter what we do, how we put ourselves in some previous phase. It is already in the European Parliament, at least after these experiences as an observer, I can say that it is difficult to seek agreement on a common matter. However, it is mostly built in search of common ground, not based on differences. In national parliaments, especially in Slovenia, it may be building on differences rather than on common ones. Of course, these different approaches can then have different consequences. That is why I think it is good that the meetings are open to the public, except when the government requests or believes that it would be right to restrict the public's interests or the meeting is closed because of our negotiating venues. Article 9 mentions the five-week deadline, where the talk is that the government therefore sends to the National Assembly a proposal for the positions of the Republic of Slovenia containing an assessment of the impact and consequences of EU proposals on the Republic of Slovenia as soon as it adopts it, but no later than five weeks after the receipt of the EU case. This is, of course, reasonable, because the procedures in the European Parliament are long-lasting, sometimes there are more than a year there, fourteen months is nothing special. I'm glad you agreed that this is an instructional deadline, that there won't be any embarrassment later. Some of the government's comments, I have looked at them in detail, seem quite justified because they are practical. I'm afraid it's hard to predict at this point how much of this work is going to be. But we know pretty sure it'll be Friday. And we also know that there is a need to respond relatively quickly to the individual requirements that are being set up in Brussels. We also know that, according to some opinions, particularly experienced colleagues from these European institutions, 50% of the cases are being dealt with in Brussels, it is said, quite a lot of things are going on there. This also means a great burden for the National Assembly, and therefore I think it will have to be, how should I say, reasonablely selective; to have a supervisory function in this context, but to understand that there are things like this, that the government can take responsibility and say, this is how it will be. Now I am not, of course, in order for the government to have purely free hands, far from that, and I very much agree with article 11, which seems essential to me. However, it must be understood that life sometimes shows some different wages when it comes to turning quickly and, of course, our long-term full - time discussion would not help us to come to better solutions, but we would miss the deadline. That is why I think that the law, as it was written, should be supported in this first debate and open up room for a second reading, amendments and so on. I think that the leaders of the parliamentary groups have done a good job, they have made an effort to harmonise some text, some text of the law. Of course, it is perfectly clear that only in, say, the next ten, twelve months will we be able to see how successful we were when we planned this cooperation between the government and the national assembly. Therefore, in this case, it would not be too critical when time shows that this law needs to be changed. In short, I think the second reading is a suitable basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u25	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Brace. At the invitation of our Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, a delegation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Grand Assembly of the Republic of Turkey is in haste with us in Ljubljana. Members and members of the delegation, headed by the President, are now at the gallery and I welcome them. [[Applause]] . I wish them all the pleasure of visiting our shares and the best impressions of coming home! We're moving on. Now he's got the word, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. The fact is that at this point we do not know what the relationship between the national assembly and the government will be, in particular, be after 1 May 2004. However, in any event, I estimate that he will choose his role in this process, under these conditions of cooperation, or will have to choose his own national assembly. I believe that the text of the law before us is the appropriate basis for the follow-up process and also for the final adoption. However, I believe that some things in this law are still quite unclear. Indeed, I fully agree with the solution in Article 9. I am sure that logistics itself will be possible because we also know how decisions are taken in the European Union that, in this time frame, the National Assembly or the so-called Grand Committee could take the necessary positions and then, with these views, equip the government to represent it in the institutions of the European Union, the Council of Europe and so on. However, I believe that Article 10 is somewhat the second paragraph. If I quote him, he says: "If the Government in the process of enforcing the positions of the Republic of Slovenia referred to in the preceding paragraph assesses that their application or full application would not be in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, it may decide otherwise. It shall immediately inform the National Assembly thereof and indicate the circumstances justifying such conduct." Then, of course, the solution is left open. Normally, in such a case, the National Assembly should assess whether the Government’s decision was contrary to the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia or whether the State Assembly, when adopting the views it had adopted, had imposed on the Government, might have exaggerated or had not sufficiently considered the integrity of the issue, which would of course dictate a certain acceptance of the position. However, I believe that, at least in the process of bringing the Republic of Slovenia closer to the European Union, we have not yet been convinced of such government decisions, although, of course, the Republic of Slovenia was one of the accession candidates to the European Union, which, of course, had this clear commitment of the negotiating group and the government, that the positions or orientations must be confirmed by the national assembly. And we didn't have any problems. That is why I do not believe that, in this particular case, the concerns and fears of the government are in place so that there may be complications. We believe that more of this cooperation will be easier, of course, and more effectively, the representation of Slovenian interests in the institutions of the European Union will be effective. And it is likely here that the constitutional principle of the division of power is passed on to a genuine cooperation that formally has its binding framework at the legal level, which will then, at a substantive and concrete level, help to make the Republic of Slovenia, or the government that will represent the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, as effective as possible. And in this particular case, I think that actually these fears are superfluous. But, of course, I have one more question, which has been asked all the time since the birth of this law. It is true that we have written down in the Constitution that a special law will regulate the way the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cooperates with the national assembly on European matters and that, of course, we have not mentioned here explicitly the institution of the State Council. However, practice teaches that writing a matter down twice never harms anything. Used to be. If more entities are invited to participate, of course they also help improve final decisions. Therefore, I still believe and appeal that it would be appropriate to include participation in the work of the large committee of representatives of the Council of State in the further procedure of the law. In this way, I think that it would also be appropriate to round up all the institutions which, according to my assessment, are called to participate in this process, which could finally be said that in fact Slovenia is upgrading its sovereignty by effective representation in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. I'll take my turn because I see some of my colleagues are gone. There's no fellow seal. My friend Germich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. So today, many times already cited was the fact of Article 3a and of course the powers conferred between the national assembly and the government in relation to the rules of operation of the European Union. Indeed, the European Union Member States agree with the European Union's approach to the transfer of sovereignty in a number of areas, which means that a number of matters falling within the EU's competence can no longer be decided on their own but participate in the legislative process and procedures within the European Union, of which, of course, the essential feature is, as has been established today, a kind of breach of the classical structure of the division of power. There was also a great deal at the time of the adoption of the draft Constitutional Treaty in the European Union for a speech on democratic deficit and, of course, a lot of efforts have been made precisely to renovate the institutions of the European Union, where, above all, the European Parliament should have a significantly greater role to play in legislative procedures. Of course, national parliaments are only acting as legislator in these roles of today's rules in matters of full sovereignty in the country. Of course, questions are now raised as to how to regulate in individual countries the relation to those issues which, under internal constitutional regulation, would be the competence of the legislative branch of government and, of course, regulate the transfer of those powers to the level of the European Union and are under the rules of operation of the European Union under the responsibility of the government. Here, I think, Slovenia has already had a very good way in accession years where, in fact, all the positions in the negotiation process have been achieved and verified through the individual committee of the National Assembly. Of course, as a result of these experiences of the functioning of the National Assembly and of course of the good practices of other parliaments, we have a law before us, of course, how to regulate the relationship between the State Assembly and the government in the future. Here I think it is very important to note that the title of the law itself bears the word "cooperation", that is, cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters affecting the European Union. And here it seems to me that it is very important to build further on the content of this law, both from the point of view of the national assembly and from the point of view of the government. And here it might be, despite the fact that the National Assembly will have the role it imposes upon it after the Constitution, that is, control and so on. In my view, it would be very good if, within the framework of the law, only these supervisory functions of Parliament were exceeded, but that this cooperation between Parliament and the government would take place in such a way that, of course, the views that are also enshrined in the law and also [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] that the draft law mentions the position of the Republic of Slovenia very much. This seems extremely important to me in the further construction of this law, where it is stressed that the substance of the positions that the government advocates before the Council in the European Union as legislative bodies is precisely that they are Slovenian views and not perhaps governmental or parliamentary views. This seems to me like a good foundation that I, as president of a group of friendships with the Finnish Parliament, had the opportunity to meet directly when I visited the Finnish Parliament, where I just had the opportunity to feel this reciprocity and cooperation. So, cooperation where it was, I would say, in fact, at the starting point of work between Parliament and the government, but not mostly in that Parliament would, of course, exercise these supervisory functions and then look for reasons why the government takes certain positions. Here I think one of the key elements of this law and, bound through this law, would also link the contents of Articles 4 and 9. Why? Article 4 describes the competences of two newly created or two with content on newly defined committees, that is, the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy, which in its decisions - in the second paragraph of this Article - rely on - so I apologize, in Article 6 - these working bodies rely on the positions and proposals of the home working bodies. If, of course, we want to establish such a hierarchy of procedures or procedures of order, then it seems extremely important to define the content of Article 9. And that's the way to communicate. And, of course, through a way of communication, which, of course, foresees the gradual and multi-phaseness of the processing of individual documents, I think that the establishment of an information system between the Council of the European Union, the Government and Parliament is extremely important to the national parliaments. For decisions and positions in the home labour body should be coordinated through the interests also represented by the government and somehow confirmed by the European Affairs Committee. And then we represent Slovenia's position in the world of the European Union. This seems to me to be one of the most important questions. Because, of course, in this way, we can significantly reduce the evidence of a democratic deficit in making individual decisions. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that the speed of the adoption of the law be one of the fundamental priorities, as time 1.5 is rapidly approaching. At the same time, it seems to me that it is extremely important for this law to be followed by amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which will decide on changes and relations related to the working bodies and the working bodies, which will eventually draw up final opinions. However, given that we are talking mainly about government-national Parliament relations here, we might point to another fact: the fact that the European Parliament is also involved in the legislative process. It seems to me extremely important that the interest of the national Parliament to monitor events also in the European Parliament is important, for a simple reason, because in certain positions the European Parliament may differ substantially from the views of the European Union. Therefore, I think it would also be very useful to accelerate, from the point of view of this debate, the follow-up activities in the European Parliament, which will serve as a source of information in the process of shaping the positions of the Slovenian Parliament. Of course, I believe that the law, as proposed, is a good basis and that the solutions to be built up in the second reading justify the continuation of the procedure of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Comrade Germich. Colleague of Potter, then Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. There has been much talk about the law, its objectives and principles, and I would like to pursue the objective of informing the national assembly and the government's obligations in this regard. These things are defined in Article 8 of the proposed law, and something in this connection is also linked to Article 15, and I would like to explain more precisely where I see problems or what things I would like to see determined to be resolved in the way we imagined when we said that the European Union would be a nice home for everyone and that it would be possible to carry out its linguistic identity. What's this all about? For good information and quality decision-making it is in fact very important to understand the texts. We often have difficulty understanding even when we speak our mother tongue. Let it not be too anecdotal, but if I think about how misunderstood I was in my debate yesterday, as can be seen from today's writing in Del, there is no guarantee that we would be better able to understand each other when it comes to communication in a foreign language. I can't find any regulations on this, but maybe I'm too poorly informed about how the notification will take place, in which language, whether the documents will be transmitted in two language versions or only in one language. This is a matter of concern to me because it is quite clear that knowledge of foreign languages is a condition for a senior civil servant or a staff member. Not just one. Even more foreign languages. This is not a condition for election for a Member of State or a Member of State. And I think it's the same. Because it's one of the elimination elements. Again, I ask you not to be misunderstood, it seems perfectly normal to me, and also according to our educational objectives, that the level of foreign language management in our country should be as high as possible. We're saying that everyone should not only know one foreign language, but at least two foreign languages, if not more. But it is simply some purely formal position in this regard. If the principle of the official language of Slovenian as one of the official languages is to be implemented in the European Union, then care must be taken at all levels to respect this principle. Each of us had the opportunity to learn different language practices. Several times I have experienced that important officials, representatives of countries from Europe, their attention and respect for the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia have also shown in such a way that at least in the introduction they have spoken a few sentences in Slovenian. Also, the number of people who started learning Slovenian is constantly increasing. But what I'm worried about is that we still don't have translated all the legal order, that falling behind in translation is a big problem, and that it's hard to believe that there will be any less problems in translation in the future. Now, if I add to this that documents will come from Europe in a foreign language, and the time in which the National Assembly will have to react will be very short, it is very limited to ensure that this principle of Slovenian will be respected. However, I would like to ensure something for the more resilient that this principle will be better respected than can be seen from some of the forms or documents prepared. To be specific. Article 15 states that the Government must establish an information system for European affairs by 1 May 2004. We discussed some material on the European Affairs Commission, which also included forms for the government to monitor documents coming from Europe or from us to the European Union. And it is already there that it can be understood that how Slovenian will be represented as the first language, not as the second language, that we do not fully follow this principle, because it writes the title of the document, and below in brackets, just in detail also Slovenian, if the document is already translated into Slovenian. I cannot be satisfied with the explanation that, by 1 May, Slovenian is not yet an official language in the European Union. I know that. But given that the system is now in place, this system should be set up in such a way that it will work well in the future. How will documents come from the European Union, not only in English but also in French, but in another foreign language? How will it be possible to ensure public access to information From anyone who has the right to receive any information. Nor can he be required to speak French if I look at this, according to how many people in Slovenia can speak French at all, and usually in French. Thus, these problems, which are related to the language involved in the creation of the archive of documents, are great and I fear that we will face real problems more often and at different levels than we now think. However, I would like to make it clear that the normal functioning of a language developed by the language system requires the provision of writing and speaking in Slovenian, including in this professional type of language called legal language or political language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u31	Thank you very much, colleague of yours. Now he has the word of his colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When we consider this law, which governs relations between Parliament and the government, under conditions where Slovenia will be a full legal member of the European Union, I must say that it seems to me that we are a little overly overly mysterious about these relations. It is clear that all countries have a special working body and that we must have one. However, given that a model has now been chosen when the National Assembly will only draw up positions that only politically bind the government, I think that neither this committee nor Parliament will have a significant impact on the government's decisions. I think that, at the initial stage of action within the European Union, we should choose a model that is closer to the Danish, Austrian work when the government takes binding positions. For so far, here in the Slovenian public, I think consciously, has formed a position for some time, such as that Parliament is losing its co-function, its co-significance, its legislative initiative. And even such questions as what else will Parliament do, under the conditions when we enter the European Union. I know that the great background behind this is that such positions are then spreading, as the European EU, the European Parliament and everyone else will be making decisions anyway. Nevertheless, the Members of State will sit here and draw large wages and privileges, which, of course, will then appear constantly with some delay. I don't think our government will really be in euphoria when we begin to enter the European Union. This decision, whether or not it is necessary, shall be within its competence unless Parliament expressly so requests. I think that, in the initial stage, the situation when we ask Parliament specifically, but here is a trap, whether Parliament will be strong enough in this initiative to explicitly require the government to explain that it comes from the point of view, because in our Parliament too much competence has now been transferred to college and I think that this law gives it new powers, new power to the college and actually Parliament is losing its function in some way. Thus these criticisms will in some way be partly justified under this law in the public eye. Some powers, decisions are passed on to college again, and there we know that two of the biggest parties or the biggest parties with one ally can do what they want. Thus, I think that some things would still have to be worked out on this law and these solutions, even different solutions would not be bad if they were introduced, because, as I say, I do not count on the self-discipline of the Slovenian government to respect this relationship between Parliament and the government, but, as I have already said, I am counting or almost certain that the government will take a greater weight in the beginning. It will, however, begin to come to Parliament at a time when it will face difficulties. This is gonna be real quick. This will be very fast, because accession negotiations with the European Union are likely to have not been as successful as the government has been able to convince the Slovenian public. Last but not least, such things as the Tobacco Factory, if not fully directly connected, already indicate that there will be major problems in the manufacturing industry and beyond. Of course, the path to canoes will be very difficult for the government. She will not accept that she will have to admit here before the National Assembly that in the negotiations on a wide range of segments she has been negotiating poorly. And for that reason, I also think that it is not good for this initial phase that Parliament's views on government are merely politically binding. In my personal opinion, it would be significantly better to get closer to the model of Denmark and Austria in order to bind the government on certain matters. However, I hope that by the third reading there is still a chance that some things will be fixed and I must also say that I do not agree with the principle of closed sessions. I know that sometimes some things need to be done in closed sessions, but the primary principle should be an open meeting with the possibility of closing the meeting if assessed. There's some mystery on this segment, some weight. These closed sessions have their own mysticism, but they are not here mystical matters on the basis of which this will be done, and on the basis of these closed meetings too much weight will be given to the Chair. However, the President - I am almost sure - that the government elite, the parliamentary elite, will take the right, a few months before the elections, to put the Presidents on their own, so that there will come to the public views, which I think will sometimes be different from what has happened in closed sessions. Thus, a very thorough consideration is still needed on these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u33	Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that the proposal put forward by the leaders of the parliamentary groups for consideration is well prepared and that we can send it to a second reading, but it still seems to me that there are three things that need to be mentioned in all that is written, but above all in relation to what is not in the law. First time. The National Assembly will find itself in a new situation when Members have significantly more opportunities for a political assessment of individual proposals. Our role will be different in the future, compared to the current role, we will prepare fewer amendments, we will not invest them, we will not cedulate the texts that will come to the hearing, but we will assess whether the documents are ripe for consideration. In order to be able to carry out this assessment, we will urgently need information on how they were judged in other parliaments, not how they were judged in other countries, but how they were judged in other parliaments. There is a great need here to strengthen our representation in the European Parliament, so that professionals and co-workers who will monitor in the European Parliament what is going on in relation to some matter will somehow connect with Member States and national parliaments. This will be a matter that will be very important for the real evaluation of the content of this event. Therefore, it seems to me that in the following readings, however, when it comes to the implementation of this document, we must find a way to do so. Not only will our European Members and Members be able to come to a meeting of the European Committee or of the Committee on Foreign Policy and monitor the treatment of this material so that our Government can decide on this next Monday, but we must also provide opportunities and opportunities for this direct link to Parliament's professionals in Brussels to work as necessary. The second question I would like to mention is, not a replica, because I do not want to object to what my colleague Jerovšek said earlier, but I would like to point out that this is such a comprehensive, complex matter that it is right to talk behind closed doors. All those who will judge these things in the European Committee need, above all, peace and concentration, and also the right to admit that they do not know something, but not to steal time from God and themselves because of the presence of the media and the public, and try to tell them what they already know, but many things we do not know. You all know that we treat each other more seriously, properly, and respectfully when the public is not around. If we are talking about the interests of the National Assembly and the national interest, then we need to stand up for closed meetings, where we can agree on and coordinate on many things. Third thing I'd like to mention. It seems to me that the national Parliament will now be burdened with a lot of unnecessary work and that the real work in the national Parliament is just beginning. All this mandate, colleagues and colleagues, we have been under pressure to harmonise our legislation with the European Union and we have been doing things in half or in a third, but now it will happen that we will have a little less of these projects and we will be able to devote ourselves to them. The time will come when the national parliament can also be recognized in the eyes of our public as a creative and respectful body. I expect, however, that a different way of working, especially the burden on certain things, will allow the national Parliament to receive a real assessment in the eyes of our public and, above all, an opportunity for self-sustainment. Therefore, I would like to conclude, namely, that the marriage proposal is a good journey, we can complete it in the following readings and it seems important that we do not celebrate it needlessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u35	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u36	Dear President! Dear colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, at this point it is difficult to imagine how this will work in practice. I think that implementation alone will show what solutions are best for the functioning of the Slovenian Parliament. We are simply painting a Finnish model into a Slovenian reality does not mean that it will work for us as it does in Finland. Look, if I understand how this is supposed to work, my mother's working body is supposed to form an opinion under a certain law, in a particular chapter, on a certain subject. In these two committees a position should then be drawn up. With this view, the government was then supposed to address the European Parliament. If necessary, however, the government could change that view if it assessed that it was not in Slovenia’s best interests. I almost hope to predict that, just as now, the political situation between the Slovenian government and the Slovenian Parliament is taking place, in practice, that the government will in its own opinion change its position on a regular basis. Why do I say that? Because that's what we're experiencing today. When we adopted and adopted the new Rules of Procedure, the new Rules of Procedure clearly stated when the Slovenian Government could propose the adoption of a law by emergency procedure. It says exactly when it comes to military interests, when it comes to natural disasters, and then the proposal for an emergency procedure is closed. Nevertheless, we experience over and over again that the government comes with its proposals through urgent procedures little or no with any other law. He always finds some reason why an emergency procedure is needed, even though it has nothing to do with the military or with a natural disaster. Whether this relationship between the parent working body, the European working body and the government will work, is likely to be difficult to predict at this point. Perhaps something will be fulfilled, as the predecessor told me before me, that this national assembly will no longer be burdened by such a multitude of legal legislation. It is said that these matters will be much less and that this will only make it possible to devote a little more thorough attention to those on the agenda. However, if the fate of the case is as it is today, then of course I cannot imagine how this matter should work in practice in accordance with this law, as set out here. If the fate of the matter is to be as we have it today, then this law will have to be amended in a short time. The second thing is, I would like to draw myself to those who demand or suggest that Article 7 be otherwise recorded. I'm not sure he has to make decisions in public for closed sessions. The European Union is, after all, a democratic community decided at the referendum by all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that as representatives of citizens, it is said that those who will be elected to the national elections in this Slovenian Parliament should not hide anything. It is right that there is a possibility in the law that a public meeting will be closed, but it cannot be stated in the law that all meetings for the public are closed but only those for whom the competent body so decides are open. I think that the matter must be reversed, it is said, that the meetings are open to the public and, if necessary, the public meeting may be closed if the assessment of the working body is such that it is decided on a matter of such importance that it is not good for the public to be informed immediately and without delay, but that the public will later be informed on the basis of the press conference. I also have certain concerns about Article 15. Article 15 is already a few of the principles of colleague Potrate. It points out that by 1 May 2004, the government must establish an information system for European EU affairs. I find it hard to believe that this is going to be exposed the way we want it to be. Above all, we need to ensure that European acts are translated into Slovenian, not to make it easier for Members to understand and monitor them, but to understand Slovenian citizens and citizens. They need to ensure that all matters are translated into the Slovenian language in a timely manner and that they are also given access to these legal acts so that they can be understood. In this context, which obliges the government, what needs to be done by 1 May, is then totally unnecessary that last sentence, which states: The Government by order prescribes the way in which this system is implemented and accessible. I am convinced that access to this system must be legalized in this law, without the government ordering it by some order, without the government taking an exclusive right in this area to order whom access is available and to whom no approach is available, but the law must determine in such a way that access to this information is guaranteed to all citizens and citizens. These are two specific comments, i.e. the comment I made on Articles 7 and 15 to conclude. We don't know how the system works; some of you have had this opportunity to look at it from afar. However, what is acceptable and what works in Finland is not said to work in Slovenia. Slovenia will be required - even if this law is adopted in such a form as it is written - to develop its own system, with its own Slovenian specificity. And it is right for those who have drafted this dictatorship to listen to all these comments and to try to take into account the opposition's concerns that we have put forward on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else would like to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I therefore conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's timing, decide today in the context of the 17.15 vote. I'm breaking this agenda. Representatives of the government, and I thank you all very much. At 13.25 a.m., we will move on to the 14th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the bill on environmental protection. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u38	We're moving to 14. Period of the day - firstly, a proposal for a law on environmental protection. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members, with first-signed Aloise Sok, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the government, the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, Janez Kopač, to provide an additional explanation of the bill. Today he has a little more time available, given the volume of 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We have a law on environmental protection, it has been in force for more than ten years, and some inconsistencies in the law itself have been demonstrated at that time, and the main reason is that today you are considering this law, a whole series of European directives that have already been adopted since this law on environmental protection. That is why, of course, we had to make a thorough review of the law. Let me stress that this is a law that we must adopt before 1 May of this year and also a sub-legislative act based on it, which we are also preparing in parallel. So we're in a bit of a hurry. Maybe you'll tell me why we're coming with him so late. Let me say that, for one part of the law, this is the one with regard to greenhouse gas emissions trading, too, Europe does not yet have definitively defined rules and we will probably ask either the parent committee or the group of Members to table an amendment that will specify certain things in view of what will happen in Brussels in the next two months. Directives of the European Union are, in this case, some moving target, which we hunt with the text as it is here and with any adjustments that will follow. However, we owe it all to us, despite the fact that Europe is so late, adopted before May 1st. Following the adoption of the Environmental Protection Act, which is now in force, a number of international instruments have been adopted that bind us and should be implemented: the Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol, the Aarhus Convention on Access to Information and Public Participation in Decision-making and on Access to Legal Protection in Environmental Matters and a whole series of Directives of the European Union. The Directive on the assessment of impacts, plans and programmes on the environment is an important one, which constitutes a major intervention in the legal text in relation to the current situation. Certain types of plans and programmes that are subject to a comprehensive environmental impact assessment are laid down in this Directive and also lay down a procedure to be completed by the Minister's certificate. Let me say that in the future the environmental impact assessment will be carried out by all spatial actions of the municipalities or countries that will begin to prepare after 21 July of this year. This is a directive that is actually going to reach every local community, not just the national level. The second such directive, which we follow in this text, I only keep talking about things that are different, given the current law on environmental protection, even though it is a new law, because there would be too many articles that would interfere with existing articles, but we said that it is best to adopt a new bill. In short, the following Directive is the Directive on the assessment of the environmental impacts of certain public and private projects. This is a directive on environmental impact assessment, according to home. However, the changes that are here are mainly due to the new regulation on the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings, which does not provide for a multilocation permit, but a requirement, and we have regulated this in the law, an environmental impact assessment as a stand-alone process that will end with an environmental agreement, which is a stand-alone decision prior to the issue of a building permit. The law also regulates the process of cooperation between the Member States of the European Union and the EFTA States if the implementation of a project has a cross-border impact. We are already giving, for example, the neighbouring Austria, Italy, Hungary and Croatia, which is a party to the EspO Convention, and the opinion that is actually a binding opinion on a project that is going on just along the border would weigh down to have a cross-border impact on the environment. For this reason, let's say that I am illustrating, the neighbouring Republic of Italy has begun to think about a change in the course of the railway route, which would run quite close to the water catchment in Brestovica in Kras. We too are obliged to send our projects at the border to neighbouring countries, and this process is regulated here. A third important change is the introduction of an environmental authorisation for the operation of certain types of devices or for the performance of certain activities. This is due to the directive on integrated environmental prevention and pollution, in jargon is called the IPPC Directive, which is the fear and trembling of about 140 companies in Slovenia whose production has significant environmental impacts. These are iron, cement, nitrogen, chemical factories and so on. According to the proposal of the law, environmental authorisation must also be granted to operators of other installations or activities that pollute the environment with their emissions and will be determined by the emission limit rules and those that process or dispose of waste and will be determined by the rules governing waste management. For these devices, the compliance with environmental emission requirements has so far been assessed in the process of obtaining a building permit or a location. After that, it'll be a stand-alone procedure. And what is important is that this procedure will be periodically renewed, so it will not be given this authorisation once and for all, but it will be renewed on each occasion over and over again, and it is incumbent on the company to prove that it is using the best available technology. Otherwise, it cannot obtain such authorisation during periodic renewal. The next directive, which has been included here and has so far not been in the domestic legal order, is a directive on the management of major accidents involving dangerous substances, the so-called Seveso Directive. On the basis of the Annex to this Directive, the Government shall determine the type and quantity of dangerous substances located in an establishment for which an environmental permit and conditions are to be obtained. The next important novelty of this law is the implementation of the Aarhus Convention and the law on access to environmental information, in order to democratise decision-making and to involve the general public in environmental matters. This Environmental Protection Act, together with the Act on Access to Public Information, which has already been adopted, regulates the procedure for the adoption of plans and programmes, as well as specific decisions relating to the environment, for the inclusion of the public in these decisions. The proposal for a law in accordance with these acts gives a special position to NGOs acting in the public interest in the field of environmental protection. In the procedures for issuing environmental consent and environmental authorisation for installations that may cause environmental pollution of a larger scale, the position of a party and thus the possibility of enforcement of legal remedies will be exercised. That is why the law provides for a special procedure to identify this public interest, which is concluded by a decision of the Minister, and NGOs will have to comply with the conditions laid down for obtaining this status. The bill systematically builds on the economic instruments of environmental protection introduced by the law already in force on environmental protection, in particular for the sake of a more consistent application of one of the fundamental principles of environmental protection, this is the principle of payment for environmental burdens; hence, the polluter must pay. In addition to the already established economic instruments, the bill introduces a new economic instrument, namely greenhouse gas emissions trading. This instrument fully adopts the provisions of the Directives of the European Union on this subject and the requirements of the Kyoto Protocol relating to emissions trading. Operators of certain installations where the activity causing greenhouse gas emissions is to be authorised for their operation after 1 January 2005. The subject of trade is the emission coupons which, in tonnes of carbon dioxide, have been expressed as equivalent to the greenhouse gas emission allowances granted by the State for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol and those Directives to operators of installations. The allocation shall be made free of charge on the basis of the national allocation plan for a certain period of time, first for a three-year period, from 2005 to 2007, and then for a five-year period, from 2008 to 2012. As I mentioned in the introduction, we are implementing a directive of the European Union and, in the meantime, a new directive on trade is emerging, which we do not know at this moment; its final content is likely to be known on 2 March when the Council of Ministers for the Environment is in Brussels. We may then have to make another amendment to this chapter on greenhouse gas emissions trading due to this new directive. So I suggest you consider the law. Of course, we will be pleased with any additional constructive directions. However, let me say that, in fact, a very large part of the law is simply taking over the provisions of the European Union directives, so that in very many cases we do not have some autonomy to regulate things in our own way. The bill, as I mentioned, should be adopted before May 1st, including by law, so please consider it as soon as possible, not only today, but also after the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for the introductory explanation. In addition to the Minister, the Under-Secretary of State, Master Radovan Tauzes and Mr Dušan Pichler participate in this agenda item. The following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on this law and I give the floor to my colleague, Alojz Sok, for the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u41	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I don't know, yeah, now's the time. In explanation of this law, which we have before us, the government has written down, quote: "The current law on environmental protection has simplified the foundations of modern environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia. It has unified the principle of environmental protection and translated it into a context of ensuring sustainable development from then on the usual way of solving major environmental problems aimed at the use of technical pollution reduction solutions. The concept of sustainable development is increasingly being implemented in a modern community, especially in the Member States of the European Union, such as facing economic and social development, which is not at the expense of environmental burdens, by highlighting the principle of linear economic growth, but as a development that also enables future generations to survive, and by taking care to prevent and reduce pollution from sources also underlines the smaller and more prudent use of natural resources and the preservation of biodiversity." And then the government goes on to say: "With the executive regulations of the government and the ministry responsible for environmental protection, most of the directives relating to emissions, the state of the environment, i.e. imisia, monitoring, the management of different types of waste, environmental impact assessment and so on have been introduced into Slovenia's legal order. Thus, the Slovenian legal order in the field of environmental protection is almost fully in line with the European Union's legal acts." The government also says that the objectives of the new law remain the same. The same remain fundamental principles, nor do the main solutions in the new law change. If all of this is so, of course the question arises in itself, why do we need a new law on environmental protection? The Minister here today said that because of the new law it would constitute an intervention in too many articles, it is better for this reason to adopt a new law. But I'll warn you one more time. Prior to that, the Government stated in its explanatory statement that Slovenia's legal order in the field of environmental protection is almost fully in line with European Union legislation. Of course, something doesn't match, something doesn't match, if I put it that way. It is only for the introduction of an additional directive of the European Union, such as a directive establishing an environmental authorisation for the operation of certain types of devices or for the exercise of certain activities, or a directive on the democratisation of decision-making involving the general public under the Aarhus Convention, that the law does not in fact need to be amended by Directives of the European Union because they can also be applied directly. Not for public participation either, because if we wanted to, the public could be involved right now. This has proved to be very good in the debate on the national energy programme or the resolution, where, somehow, the day came when the public concerned was, in fact, eliminated in the preparation of the national energy programme itself. Economic instruments for environmental protection, such as environmental burden payments, under the new ecological coupon, could easily be incorporated into the current environmental protection law. It seems that the only reason we need a new law is to create the possibility that under this law you will be able to issue a whole series of regulations, regulations, orders, decisions, decisions. In short, it seems to be a form of unprecedented bureaucracy. It also appears that further centralisation is the cause of this law, since the area of chimney activity, inspection and control of chimneys and air ducts, is transferred as a compulsory economic public service from the municipality to the country, while the cleaning of combustion plants, chimneys and air ducts will be excluded from the public economic service and left to market law. It is quite clear that these two activities are so closely linked that they need to be resolved in a relationship. The assumption that, as a result of this transfer of compulsory public service to the country, as well as environmental pollution charges, will contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and does not have any real reasoned basis. All these works are now carried out by licensed personnel and are controlled by the State inspection services and it is entirely irrelevant from this point of view whether the award of the concession is subject to the law of the municipality or the State. In any event, the concession must be granted on the basis of the law governing this area and on the basis of a statutory award by concession. According to the principle of subsidiarity, this should remain at local level, which would also mean lower costs. The poverty of municipalities for any fees collected in the budget will also mean that money will be diverted to those who already have more resources instead of staying where these funds are being paid. The novelty of this law is also that you are declaring something that we have already discussed in this National Assembly to declare savages national property. By doing so, you recognize that the adoption of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting is currently inconsistent with the current law on environmental protection, thus correcting or harmonising legislation. That's also what the state council has been alerting you to. Next. This law, as the majority of the laws that have been passed, is spreading and increasing state bureaucracy, as you are reinstituting new institutions in the field of environmental protection, this time the environmental protection council. Perhaps it would be better to think about and leave this area to civil environmental institutions and give them a little more resources for their work, of course, for the work done, but not just for the reverse. The new law is intended to improve the state of the environment, in particular in the area of air protection, as you recognise. But only with increased bureaucracy will that not be possible. It is very important, at least in the area of air protection, what national energy programme will be adopted by this national assembly. Otherwise, the situation in the environment is poor, especially because the rules we have already incorporated into the existing legal order are not being implemented as they should be. Above all, there is a lack of comprehensive conceptual solutions in this area and financial incentives to address environmental problems. Let me just list some of the most pressing problems in our country. The quality of surface liquid waters has stagnated for several years. The problem is the dynamics of cleaning appliances. The means for this area are the chicks. However, the municipalities that are supposed to invest in this area are constantly tasked with new and new tasks and thus lack the necessary resources for new investments. Nor does the government have a scenario to reduce emissions of waste water from industrial industries, which are the largest contaminants. Whether you will be able to close these establishments simply after 2007, I was already wondering when we discussed the report on the state of the environment for 2002 in this National Assembly, but I did not get an answer to the question raised. What you will do to adapt these industries to the requirements that will enter into force in October 2007. The burden of groundwater with plant protection products is increasing. This is because agricultural production requires more and more. On one occasion, many agricultural lands were drying up, and today irrigation systems are being introduced on the same land, and of course this also means a plan and the expectation of increased production, including increased use of pesticides and other plant protection products, which eventually end up in groundwaters. The new tax legislation also contains a black scenario in agriculture. It will certainly not be possible to reduce production, but to speed up agricultural production, and thus, as I have already said, to increase pollution. The government is talking about the biodiversity strategy in this law and the rural development programme by 2006. But there are no systemic developmental orientations. Most of the money earmarked for rural development is spent by development agencies that have grown in this country as mushrooms in the rain. Just one case. What does it mean to promote eco-farming, and then if the trading requirements are so high that farmers cannot meet them. Let me mention the case we experienced this year. It was poison with ida's flour. Farmers must now pay for expensive analyses, although the examination of the Ajd’s grain at the presence of the common cartilage is purely normal and routine analysis. A ton of go, or more, as much as it grows on one hectare, it cannot bear these costs. And so, as far as this case I mentioned is concerned, biological farming with this agricultural plant is suddenly over. Who will produce the ida so that the buyer can cover the costs of the analyses it has to provide? In these and such cases, state inspection services sometimes act as small particles of the Jacobins and immediately liquidate some production, if necessary, even in the most drastic way. Furthermore, we have signed the Kyoto Protocol and the amount of greenhouse gases has been increasing in recent years instead of falling. Since 1990, the consumption of fuel oil and liquefied petroleum gas has doubled. Smoking oil and natural gas accounted for 60% of Slovenian energy consumption in 2000. At the same time, meteorologists warn that the atmosphere is slowly heating up and that fossil fuels are the cause of this warming. Climate change is becoming more and more common in Slovenia as well, we feel it reflects on our climate. The government in the energy programme is talking about reducing greenhouse gases based on the use of renewable energy sources. But by this time, what have we actually done on this segment? For example, wood biomass. The government has been preparing a programme since 2000, and we can peacefully ask how this is actually supposed to work, given that the physical forces in the countryside are getting smaller and that in fact the wood biomass project needs a lot of physical work. Moreover, it is not necessary to mention that the best Slovenian forests from which wood biomass could be obtained were awarded in a 20-year concessional relationship to forest economies, which are not interested in obtaining wood biomass, which is labour-intensive, because they are interested in increasing the profits they can generate. Furthermore, among renewable energy sources, the government is talking about wind energy, which has little perspective because it comes at intervals. And some studies, among them German, show the non-economics of wind energy, and wind energy also has side effects, such as the affected landscape, as well as the impact on the animal world. In Slovenia, renewable energy is only hydro-energy as a perspective, although at the moment it appears to be non-profitable from a price point of view. Electricity intensity is increasing as a result of the operation of the government or the competent ministry, mainly due to the subsidisation of large consumers. Such behaviour is due to the interests of the government, which on the one hand owns most energy companies and, at the same time, owns large consumers, energy-intensive companies. Monitoring the interests of existing power centres in energy and energy-intensive companies such as Talum, Petrol, Istrabenz and some other distribution companies shows a lack of development concept. This strategy and these decisions, of course, do not mean sustainable development, which the government has written in capital letters in several places in this law. Furthermore, in the context of renewable energy, you are referring to solar energy, which also entails expensive investments according to the amount of energy produced. Of course, we could reduce greenhouse gases most in the field of transport. However, there is no transport policy at this time. Only 10% of investment investments are invested in railways and everything else in road infrastructure. Transport, however, contributes a quarter to CO2 emissions. However, by 2010, this share will continue to increase rapidly, especially if transport is growing as it is now. Transport policy has indeed been a driving force for development, so we should do more on investments in railways. For example, the second track of the Koper-Liver track. To this end, the government has made almost nothing, i.e. around 500 million Slovenian tolars, instead of more than 10 billion, rather rely on the European Union's resources, which, as it now seems, will obviously be nothing. The reduction of greenhouse gases should be integrated into an operational greenhouse gas reduction programme in all areas and in all sectors of our economy. The increase in greenhouse gases shows the government's inefficiency in promoting positive systemic changes that would lead to emission reductions. And the new law and the re-direction of the ecological tax in this area from the municipalities to the country will not make a significant contribution to the positive effect, I am sure of that. Energy consumption in buildings should be steadily reduced by accelerating the use of proper insulation materials by installing efficient heating systems. It is here that the most effective of these could reduce the burdensome emissions from small hens and effectively use wood biomass. Waste poses an unresolved problem, a double problem. On the one hand, the problem of incineration of waste and in general whether incineration is relevant because of the formation of dioxins resulting from the incineration of mixed municipal wastes, and on the other hand the system of effective separation and recycling of waste and thus the preservation of the raw material base in our country. The government says that the law should have no financial implications for the budget and whether this is even possible. Of course, all costs can be passed on to pollutants. While we may burden the industry with organic rents, this will mean a breakdown of a number of economic operators, for which we do not have prepared reserve scenarios. Restructuring scenarios, social programmes and the like. In explanation of the law, the serious government should give at least the basic price of the amount of the budget inflows to the account of trading in allowances that will even be sold at auction. This law is clearly the beginning of a green tax reform adopted by the government at the end of its mandate and will be fully burdened by the government that will come after it. But what about jobs if we increase taxes? This should be answered by this government, which has not done much in this area in three years. The question is whether the operationalisation of a new law requiring a lot of sub-legislative acts will be better than the law currently in force, which will already enter into its provisions in order to implement effective environmental protection mechanisms. NGOs complain that they cannot obtain real and up-to-date data. Will the new law improve in this regard? Whether NGOs will also be able to participate in the implementation of energy projects and not only in the preparation of programmes where the government can take them into account, but usually not. And he doesn't believe he'd make them in the future. In Slovenia, government inefficiency in the environmental field is high. The question is how long will it be possible to hide this in a relatively still well-preserved nature. Only by changing laws and failing them will this certainly not work. It will be necessary to decide and adopt the right programmes, and in all this it will be imperative to maintain the industry, which is the source of income and employment. With a different transport policy, greenhouse gases can be reduced, and the only reliable natural energy source in the Republic of Slovenia can be maintained to some extent at the expense of reducing greenhouse gases in transport. Only in this way will it be possible to meet the requirements of the Kyoto Protocol and to prepare in due time also for Kyoto Protocol 2, which will follow after 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Franz Lenko is given the floor for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers! Colleagues and fellow Members! The fundamental principle of environmental protection is that the life and health of all living things and the living environment in which they live must be protected by every means possible. uncontrolled use of technologies and over-exploitation of natural resources may endanger these protected goods. The subject of regulation is excessive pollution and environmental burdens. The proposal for a law that does not change this basic concept and the solution of the existing law on environmental protection is being adopted today mainly because of a more consistent transfer of requirements that appear at the level of the European Union, in order to adapt its legislation. Environmental protection has become one of the main issues in the European Union in recent years. By adopting many laws in this area and by considering today's law, we can say that in Slovenia, too, it is increasingly focusing on this issue. Effective environmental protection necessarily imposes certain restrictions on the ideas of free trade, which is not always easy, as precise studies on negative impacts are not available, which some countries are deterring from signing certain basic environmental conventions. The principle of sustainable development is a key starting point for the creation of European Union law in the field under consideration. In doing so, we must stress that the concept of sustainable development is a oppressive vocabulary that can be quickly misused and can lead to idealisation or pragmatic use only when appropriate. Effective environmental protection therefore necessarily imposes certain restrictions on the ideas of free trade. However, the legal basis is never enough if we do not use other measures, which is particularly true in the field of environmental protection, as penalties are often low compared to the profits of polluting corporations. The effectiveness of environmental programmes depends mainly on the continuous fight, although certain things are still difficult to change. The vital problem is likely to be the habits of people who cannot be changed on their noses. One solution is in education, the other in increasing the percentage of the state budget for tanamen. We must also be aware that in the game with the environment, it is only man who actively intervenes, but nature or the environment is only a reflection of his reaction. The proposal for a new law proposes, in particular, the introduction of so-called horizontal institutes dealing with general issues of environmental protection. Undoubtedly, the institutions also bring economic benefits to some. There is nothing wrong with providing a better living environment in this way. Directives of the European Union shall, however, apply directly to themselves from 1.5.2004. Finally, we must also take into account the decision of the Luxembourg Court, which in the field of environmental protection or free trade has already imposed many judicial solutions in this regard. It may be necessary to consider criminalising environmental infringements. These are all questions that are open and many of them will still be. It is therefore essential that we adopt a basis that will allow for more consistent and transparent treatment. Because of this and because of the specificity of the Slovenian regime, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we agree with the bill and consider it suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u44	Thank you very much for this position. Mr Janko Weber will give the position of the United Nations Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u45	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that environmental protection is a task that we really need to do very carefully. Of course, we can see that we do not face excessive environmental concerns in everyday life, and we hope that we must also somehow achieve this awareness in Slovenia at a higher level. Therefore, there is also some way of forming interest groups that advocate absolute environmental protection, as well as on the other side of the group that see the environment only in order to achieve a narrow economic impact, which can also have long-term irreversible consequences. We have been trying to respond to these situations for some time in Slovenia by forming our legal order and by entering Slovenia into the European Union. Of course, we are also trying to summarize or comply with the legal acts of the European Union here. Just taking into account the new facts, both in the domestic legal order and in the legal order of the European Union, is one of the important reasons why today we are considering a new proposal for a law on environmental protection. The solutions set out are important both for the development of local communities, countries and the whole, the European Union and the global view of the whole world, as the solutions seek to bring about the implementation of the 1992 Rio de Janeiro Declaration on Environment and Development, as well as the so-called document AGENDE 21. The maximum supplement or solution to this law is certainly an environmental permit for the construction and operation of certain types of devices. However, here we would like to point out that we need to be very careful that we do not exaggerate in our actions, that we do not reduce our investment interest in Slovenia through an administrative approach or that we will not become uncompetitive to the most developed countries. In particular, there will be a very high responsibility on the part of the government, which will have the power to set emission values from installations and to regulate the behaviour for which environmental authorisation is needed. We believe that it would also be necessary to obtain appropriate information at the stage of the adoption of this law, how these sub-laws will actually be prepared and what these solutions will actually be in practice. We believe that there is no way that we can afford as drastic measures as we have already introduced them in Slovenia, for example, in the field of agriculture. If we also introduce this in the area of the environment, there can certainly be a very big problem with the competitiveness of a large part of the Slovenian economy. The role of NGOs is certainly very important here. This is also one of the important acquisitions of this law. We believe that the competence that NGOs will have when they are able to make an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of environmental plans and programmes will certainly be one of the very difficult procedures. The economic instruments of environmental protection introduced by this law, of course, should also try to follow this difficult procedure. In addition to the current principle, environmental charging payments, a new economic instrument, namely emissions trading, is also being introduced. This is a new principle which, of course, can also bring danger. These threats that we see could, of course, be reflected mainly in the fact that industries that already have very high added value or higher added value would, of course, achieve even better performance in their business and, above all, in managing environmental protection measures, the environment and organisations in which the labour intensive sector predominates, but for their existence they will be buying coupons that will try to legalise a higher level of pollution, and thus also the degradation of the environment in which such organisations operate. Here we would like to draw attention to the danger of Slovenia reaching two speeds in Slovenia. If we draw attention to this problem when we step into the European Union that the European Union must by no means become a union of countries in which we will follow two speeds, we believe that, as an example, we could try to work with the European Union and design solutions to prevent Slovenia, I will say, two speeds. This law, in this context, does not give a precise answer so far so that this would not occur, and we also point out this in this general discussion. By setting emission limit values and quality standards, the government will also have a very important impact, and we believe that its task should be directed in this direction in order to make the development of Slovenia as even as possible. Of course, certain duties are also abolished. It's a so-called environmental rent. The fact is that the environmental rent has tried to solve some of the problems in the current practice by trying to fit into a facility or device that is of course important for the wider environment, and you put it in a local environment. Here we usually run into demands that reflect fears, that in that environment the property’s useful value is lost, that housing quality is reduced in that environment, and that profit is lost. This law leaves this to the civil code, as we understand it. Of course, this is one of the possible forms, and we are also trying to understand that the European Union does not provide for the payment of organic rents either, but we believe that it is probably necessary to look very carefully at the European acquis in this regard and to try to apply it to the greatest extent possible in our field, because the cases in the European Union are certainly justified or carried out on the basis of some practices and procedures that may need to be summarized in our own other acts. The Civil Code is probably not the only one who can handle these issues. In addition to the abolition of the ecological rent, it is also noted that this law centralises the collection of taxes. So far, however, this principle has been somehow included in the local environment. If you were able to prepare and arrange all the necessary documentation in a timely manner, this tax was generated in an environment where it was also collected or created. It's not supposed to be like this anymore. This fee shall be collected in the State Fund. Of course, there are solutions that we see in other Fund tasks. The answer is somehow to co-finance investments from these funds, both in the infrastructure of national and local environmental protection, to co-finance the promotion of renewable energy use, efficient energy use and all heat and electricity production, and to finance the purposes for which water funds can be used, in accordance with the law. So it's kind of going back to trying to get these funds back. However, when these funds are distributed, it is likely that some of the areas of funds that will be raised in their area will not be able to draw, in a shorter or longer period, which can lead to what we are warning in the introduction, so that it can lead to Slovenia at two speeds. Therefore, we believe that further consideration should be given to keeping at least part of these fees in the environment where it is created. We especially see this because in this law we should also somehow clear the relationship between national and local interest. When we find in this law that mandatory municipal economic services will be limited or defined as drinking water supply, decommissioning and cleaning of municipal and waste water, disposal of residues of municipal waste and disposal of municipal waste, these public services also collect fees which are then allocated to the State budget or to the State Fund. This is a mechanism implemented by local communities through their compulsory economic public services, but the funds are fully allocated to the state budget. I would also like to add to this the fact that the Mining Act, the Water Act, the Agricultural Land Fund Act of the Republic of Slovenia, which somehow discuss the exploitation and management of natural goods, means that the resources from these natural goods are also collected in the State budget, but the mechanism of creation is at the local level. While this law provides for the possibility that part of the concession fees will be maintained in an environment where this concession fee is also created, it leaves this only to the concession act. We know that concessional acts have already been concluded and it is probably very difficult to expect that this principle decision, or guidance in this law, would come only to preserve some of these assets in the local environment, to solve the problem of amending concession acts. Here we believe that the law, however, should be more specific and indeed allow some of the concession fees to remain in the environment where the sets are also created. In this way, we believe that there would really be more consistent development or evener development, because some areas have natural assets, others have, I will say, with companies that can trade emissions and, of course, some mechanism for more coherent and evener development of the Republic of Slovenia could be established. In addition to these differences, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that, however, it will be necessary to somehow clear the interest of the Municipal Chambers of Slovenia in order to avoid fishing in this area. The municipal profession certainly needs a serious interlocutor to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is also one of those issues that could certainly lead to balanced development. Finally, however, the issue arises in the implementation of measurements and inspection of combustion plants and smoke ducts. This service comes from the local public service to the public service, but it leaves the service of cleaning the combustion plants and the smoke ducts. Nor is this transition appropriate and this relationship should be cleared and it should probably also be specified that cleaning alone remains organised as a compulsory public service in the future. In all this issue, we would also like to highlight the problem of light pollution, which we have been pointing out for quite some time, particularly from our own species, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. However, we note that this law also does not seek to establish a mechanism that would regulate this area more effectively, but it is not negligible, as light pollution is increasing, we can argue that it is even increasing more than other emissions. It also seems questionable to us that due to the effective monitoring of the situation in the environment, it is still necessary to examine that article in the Environmental Protection Act, which discusses the deadline for the preparation and consideration of the environmental report. This deadline is currently very uncertain, as the environmental report is supposed to be dealt with sometime in four years, even earlier, but in at least four years. It is likely that the report can only be dealt with once every four years, which is not enough. We believe that taking these guidelines and advice into account by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, this law could be improved in further consideration, and we also expect that more obedience from the drafter of the law and that we will work together to create a law that will truly establish effective environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you very much. We will now hear the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party or its Group of Members and Jozet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All welcome, both to fellow Members and also to the Minister with fellow Members! It must be acknowledged that the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy is very productive, as it has recently drawn up several important laws such as the Law on the Regulation of Space, the Law on the Construction of Buildings, in the procedure we have a resolution on the Energy Programme, the Housing Law, the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms and so on. However, in cases where the speed of marriage is an important factor, perfection or quality often also suffers. And in practice, we are also faced with the fact that laws that are coalitionly coordinated are professionally supported, soon after publication, we are correcting, supplementing or also deleting the articles. In the opposition, at least in our parliamentary group, we have become very involved in all the laws in the field of the Ministry's work, and we have also drawn up a number of good and well-founded complementary proposals. They were rarely adopted in the proposed basic text, but quite a number of them were modified, adopted and achieved that neither the basic proposer nor the individual had appeared anywhere. In short, the coalition has shown the power not to acknowledge to anyone in this country that it is capable of doing anything, and in many cases it also solves the lack of ideas with a sufficient amount of muscle mass. I believe that this is not the most appropriate way of working and that we are all too often witnessing later on various changes in the Constitutional Court, repeals and other actions. The fact is that we have only media-responsible roof legislation and that there is a large majority of the sub-legislative acts that operationalise and even allow for the implementation or implementation of the law's idea in practice. It is because we give such a strong advantage to media-response principles and declarations that we have practically 100% of the European umbrella legislation adopted and only 30% of the necessary implementing rules. This is also confirmed in the government's unrealised obligations, as there are hundreds of implementing acts missing. Not only in this area, but in all areas. That is why, in the reports relating to the state of the environment, we find that we do not achieve the objectives, not only the Kyoto Protocol, but also from other documents, and that we are unable, for example, to implement the objectives of efficient energy use, renewable energy sources and could also be listed. And then we apologize for the different dates and the late reports. Even more importantly, the enforcement of legislation in this area of the Ministry is a major problem, as in the field, in administrative and inspection procedures, we are faced with ignoring laws and other regulations, as well as with large exceptions and tolerances. This is where they come up all too often with the expression of different connections, lobbying, shimmering on both eyes or looking through their fingers, which often results in unreasonable decisions by both local and national officials and politicians. There are no official responses, no responses from official bodies, such as inspections, no warnings and specific reports. Thus there is nothing to help us to have comparable legislation with Europe, to have good and meaningful solutions in it, but if we are extremely limping about implementation and realization. We have recently considered a report on the state of the environment, which has revealed a number of specific weaknesses, as trends in all key areas that lead to the highest quality of the environment and quality of life are extremely poor. The goals that we have set ourselves by accession to various conventions and agreements are not achieved, but even though we have chosen the worst as a starting point, this is the worst starting year. This means that theory and practice are far apart. The latest report submitted by the Government also confirms these allegations. Despite the restructuring of industry and society, despite the use of more modern, eco-friendly and more efficient technologies, i.e. more cost-effective technologies, despite the reduction of environmental burdens due to agro of measures, despite numerous awareness-raising actions and the introduction of different days, such as the day of land, the day without a car and so on, the trend of deterioration of conditions is not halted. When we passed the law on space regulation, our parliamentary group pointed out that this law contains some solutions that give a distinct advantage to capital in the event of interventions before the preservation of the landscape and the environment. We have warned that this law releases interventions into a space where it is possible to obtain equivalent surfaces or to use already existing abandoned capacities. It is precisely because of flexible design that often, without the need, move production and other facilities from the countryside and smaller centres to larger centres and motorway crosses. In this way, the rural areas remain abandoned and degraded, permanent wounds remain in the environment, and new capacities are opened nearby and agricultural areas, or so-called cultural landscape, are being burdened. Especially prominent is the case of the Ljubljana Barj, which, despite the fact that wetlands are a particularly protected part of the natural heritage, is also destroyed by objects that could be built elsewhere. Another important area where things are completely out of control is traffic. This is where all types of transport that contribute most to the poor results of the energy and environmental balance are most rapidly evolving. Although we are a highly transitional, transitive country, we would be able to achieve different trends and indicators through planned and stable investments, with targeted means. Slovenia has completely neglected the development of the rail network, as investments are relatively small, the network is long and obsolete, making freight traffic even more intensively move on our roads or on other corridors than it would otherwise have been. All of Europe is actively involved in updating rail networks and corridors. For this purpose, it has reserved huge funds, as it wants to make rail transport more environmentally acceptable and competitive. And we have fallen behind in these efforts. We have hardly, it seems, caught the last chance that Europe, the European Commission, has placed us on a priority list of investments. However, if this is the only thing we have been able to achieve and do, and if we do not provide sufficient own development resources, then European co-financing will also fall away. Passenger traffic is also very poor, as line bus and rail transport is greatly reduced. Even where the State grants subsidies, both to operators and to the most important group of users, educating young people, a total of around 10 billion, these funds or such aid are not capable of deliberately binding on the use of the service and consequently on ecological objectives. These are just a few examples of unscrupulous policy actions that propose and adopt laws that allocate earmarked resources and do not try hard enough to take real steps into the law or the objective direction. That is why the fundamental principles enshrined in this law are, and will be, more or less, a dead letter on paper. The situation in the field of energy, especially in the field of renewables, is similar, as we are not able to exploit the resources our environment offers us. The resources earmarked by this country in real terms as budget resources for renewable resources and for measures of effective use are also significantly lower than those required and recorded in the national energy programme. We are faced with the fact that we have much bigger eyes than the possibility. And because we are unrealistically planning because we are setting unrealistic goals, we are also predicting unrealistic procedures. But there remains a real problem, and the fact remains that the environment is getting worse. Similarly, things are changing slowly in the field of waste management. Here are just a few real facts, and the fact is that the fees imposed by MOPE or the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and left by the local community in the event of investment are examples of good practices in solving environmental problems and burdens. This is certainly much better than if these funds were collected in an integrated budget and then shared by some key in one way or another among selected environmental investors. However, it is quite sad that the smaller congregations respond to environmental problems much more effectively. I do not think it makes sense that this only serious development of the funds allocated by the State to local communities would, under the same conditions, be transferred to an integrated budget, which would be shared and redistributed by governments or various expensive and professional political offices and agencies for resounding projects in rich municipalities. I think it is right that at least in this area we maintain equality. As an example, or as an example of bad practice, Ljubljana, which is the center of Slovenian intelligence, is a metropolis in which for a decade the authorities or members of the advanced United List or Liberal Democracy have not been able to choose even variants of the cleaning plant, let alone to do something concrete in this area. In this case, informed civil society reacts poorly. Neither does the State use the institute of alternative action, nor in this and similar cases do the inspection. It is not right to involve the country in practically solving such problems. Of course, for the state and policy in this area we cannot only criticize the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. The problem is that this country does not have defined general priorities and objectives, nor does it have a defined path to achieving these objectives. In the planning of budgets, the quota system or the percentages set forward has been put in place and each minister is fighting for his percentage of the budget and must make sure that he does not have anything left in his account at the end of the year, in the absence of real programmes. In this way, it is also evident from the large differences between the planned, applicable and implemented budget, between the lines of the current, planned and implemented budget, which confirms that the adoption of the budget is a more protocol event or procedure for painting and demagogia than on solid programmes and solid assumptions based on a document. In this way it is extremely difficult to systematically implement and resolve the necessary systemic issues. Even so, it is not possible to pursue a solution to sustainable and co-natural development, which, through this law and other laws, are being carried out as a constant and ultimately remains more or less than a principle, rather than a declaration, but not a firm approach in practice. The law is already needed for, at least hopefully, to settle all those issues that are open and prove to be burning. However, once again, it is not enough just to harmonise roof legislation with the European Union; it is not enough just to adopt a new law that builds the old one up in some parts. It is also imperative to adopt sub-legislative acts, in particular to provide sufficient resources, to use them programmely and also rationally for programmes and projects and to ensure that environmental and other legislation is implemented consistently in practice. The law now in force has not been sufficiently brought to life for those reasons. In short, there were no programmes, there were insufficient resources, there was no implementing legislation, and the ministerial and inspection work, which were somehow responsible, did not carry out their tasks. In the end, it is only evident that the Ministry is satisfied with the adoption of the media reactive law, and then more or less all of it "falls down". The law has another special feature to carry out all the obligations set out in the next mandate. This also brings into line with the next mandate all commitments or any environmental restructuring problems and after that, this is not exactly a "gentleman" document. However, we will support this document in our parliamentary group, and we are very likely to prepare some additions to certain areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Peter Levič will give the position of the Youth Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that the existing law on environmental protection in many areas has regulated environmental protection qualitatively. More problematic is the fact that some of the provisions of the law remain only a letter on paper, for which it is certain to seek the cause also in poor and ineffective inspection, which is the only marriage in the field of environmental protection, so that the restrictions laid down in the legislation are actually fulfilled. We agree that the existing law is not a sufficient basis for the transposition of many directives of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order. It is therefore appropriate to make a consistent adaptation in the new one to the requirements of European Union environmental law and, on this basis, to the implementation of European Union legal acts in Slovenia as well. We are very important in assessing the implementation of the Convention on Climate Change, the basis of which is the adopted and ratified Kyoto Protocol and signed, but unfortunately still unratified, Aarhus Convention on Access to Information on Environmental Matters. This will wash away all the excuses that many have used in finding that we do not meet the objectives and purposes of the said Protocol and Convention in Slovenia, since the Kyoto Protocol has not yet entered into force because it is not ratified by the world's largest greenhouse gas producers, with the US, Russia and China at the helm. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, in the context of the general debate, we draw attention to the three main comments that we are referring to the proposer, expecting to be taken into account and incorporated in the proposal for a law by the second reading. The first point was that, if it had not yet been adopted, it should take into account the recommendations of non-governmental environmental experts when adopting a comprehensive environmental law, so as not to repeat the story of the national energy programme, when the competent ministry has taken too little account of the important part of the professional public and the result is less prepared a national programme than it could have been. The second area to which we point is seen as unacceptable changes in environmental taxes, fees introduced by the proposal of the Law in 110 and 111, which eliminates the possibility for municipalities to prescribe environmental taxes or taxes, and all environmental taxes provide for the income of an integrated state budget, where the purpose of use is not guaranteed, since fees can be applied regardless of where they are chosen. This will lead to a tax coming from less developed areas to more developed areas, which may lead to, for example, the resident of Kozyanska co-financing the construction of a cleaning plant in Ljubljana, while cleaning plants in smaller and more remote environments will have to wait for better times because they are not the highest priority. The proposal for a law after a good 10 years of active and successful operation also abolishes the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which was established in 1993 on the basis of a valid law on environmental protection, since Article 110 provides that membership in the Chamber is not compulsory for a public undertaking and public economic institutions that carry out environmental protection activities. In 10 years of operation, the Municipal Chamber has undoubtedly justified its existence and there is no valid and logical reason for its termination. This is a grave intervention in the acquired rights of utilities. It is also unacceptable that there is no room for this chamber in the Law on Economic Public Services and not in the Law on Environmental Protection, since there is no chamber in the existing Law on Economic Public Services because it is provided for by an appropriate law on environmental protection, which was adopted at the same time. The proposal for a new Law on Economic Public Services is not yet ready. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that the status of the Chamber should be preserved in the transitional provisions until the new Law on Economic Public Services is in force. In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we will support the draft law in the first reading. However, we expect the proposer to take our proposals into account in the further process of adopting the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u50	Thank you. Ivan Bozič is next in line for the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow ministers, colleagues and colleagues for all! Proposal for an Environmental Protection Act, EPA 1073-III, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The drafter of the Environmental Protection Act stated, inter alia, that the objectives of the proposal were largely comparable or even the same as in the law in force. The fundamental principles also remain the same. Most of the solutions thus remain unchanged, the changes concern ensuring sufficient ground for transposition of certain Directives of the European Union and further harmonisation of the terminology of European Union legislation. We do not deny the need to amend the state law in order to establish a legal framework for the implementation of the legal acts of the European Union. We also believe that the introduction of an environmental authorisation for the operation of certain types of devices or for certain activities relating to the requirements of the Directive on integrated pollution prevention and control is a positive novelty. The fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the Directive is intended to prevent pollution and control of pollution as a whole. The bill also provides for some other positive news. Let me mention the strengthened position of the public prior to entry into environmental information and the specific situation of NGOs acting in the public interest in the field of environmental protection and having the possibility of exercising legal remedies as a party. In the Slovenian People's Party we are reserved mainly for the news, which deprives local communities of their powers. While we believe that it is not problematic to impose taxes on pollution of the country's environment. However, we believe that municipal waste and sewage charges must be part of the dedicated sources of municipal budgets allocated to local community investments in this area. The bill provides that the cleaning of combustion plants, smoke ducts and air ducts would be carried from the local public economic service system during market activities. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that there are no arguments to support such a change or to speak to it in favour. We must be aware that the Republic of Slovenia does not yet have the conditions and conditions necessary for the functioning of the market in this area. The introduction of a market in this area, and the introduction of a market in a situation that is not mature for it, may lead to a deterioration. We also believe that there is no ingenuity of a solution that foresees the introduction of a market with a certain date and does not take into account concessions that have already been granted for a longer period and do not take into account legally anticipated compensations that will also follow such a course. We believe that it would be more reasonable to plan changes to the law by expiry of concession contracts in order to avoid these compensation actions. The area governed by law is complex, making general regulation of the problem inappropriate and unreasonable. We believe that the withdrawal of the right to collect taxes to local communities, as the applicant estimates that the aim can only be achieved at national level, is insufficiently imaginative and too general. We believe that it is time for the state to realise that its success is directly dependent on the success of its local communities. Centralism, to which we often witness, leads and will lead to the decline of local communities, which cannot, by no means, be in the interest of the State, especially not now that we are entering the European Union, where local communities have for centuries been a concept of self-government and do not renounce the rights acquired. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the bill and hope to complement it in our second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you for that attitude. The winner, Jelinčič Nobleni, will present the position of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, my forerunners have very meticulously broken down the law that we have before us in our first reading. The marriage is quite complex, but incomplete. I will not go into individual segments, but I will put forward a number of issues that we are referring to in the Slovenian National Party in order to make them legal, but not leave them fairly vague and without specific treatments. One of these matters is for sure that nowhere in this law do we see, say, the punishment of destroying a biotope. Let us go back a little bit, a few mandates, and at a time when one of the members of the United List of Social Democrats was, in fact, the main incentive to destroy a complex biotope in the valley in Tamar. Since then, the Slovenian National Party has proposed that this act should be sanctioned, but also in the KIC, this is said in the Criminal Code, this has not been accepted because they were Members of the United List of Social Democrats against it. I think that we should put this in that section 10, under criminal provisions, where we should in our own right correct that the destruction of certain cases in the environment would not only be a crime, but that some acts would be criminalised. Even if we are going to pay for the offences, we are judging the Slovenian National Party that those who cause the damage should pay and settle all the damage done first, then we should pay the fine, and in some of the worst cases, criminal responsibility should also follow, which should be well placed. There is no sanctions for offenders in the field of environmental protection. Throughout Slovenia we have a huge number of different black landfills, which no one controls. Even if they find out who put something down there, nothing happens. The police don't want to see it, they don't want to chase it, because they prefer to pursue other things that they bring points to their minister, a member of the United List of Social Democrats. I also think that we should also deal with the case in this regard, such as the Ljubljana Barrier case. The Ljubljana Barrier is sown with black constructions. Nobody wants to do that. Maybe because there's a whole bunch of wiped out in there, and maybe because they're counting on their votes in the next election. They don't care about destroying the Slovenian landscape. One of the issues is, of course, the alternative sources of the windmills they intend to install for electricity generation. I don't know if it's clear to you that Mr Drnovšek has promised the Spanish king on his visit that they will certainly set up windmills and that that Slovenian landscape should go to hell, because it doesn't matter because they're building this Spanish company and certain companies under the leadership of liberal democracy would have different concessions and other ratings. I certainly did not see or see anything more specific about national parks or national parks in our party. We have done nothing in this area and the flora and favni in Slovenia are disappearing. Already a few species of both flora and fauna have disappeared and it is difficult to keep the title that Slovenia has the most diversity in flora and fauna in Europe in such a small place. It appears that we are heading this way to be among those who destroy certain animal and plant species. We're also destroying water. I don't see any special things to protect the soil; it just goes away. In waste management, too, only indicatively determines what needs to be done. And once again, there is no such sanction in sanctioning that could make someone pay something hard up. Slovenia is known to have at least 15 sea fish every year, not to talk about seabirds singing, not to talk about sea frogs and other amphibians and so on. Phytopharmaceuticals are still allowed in unlimited quantities. Pesticides are used over long and long periods of time, and when it comes to finding that because of a particular environment that is too poisoned to be found on people in that area, it is easily disguised, the media write little about it, rather than not, because editors already make sure that those journalists who are too competent do not write about such topics anymore. Certainly one of the most important things in protecting the environment is sonar management. And there's nothing about that either. We mention a whole range of standards that will have to be respected, and yet these standards are in many cases quite loose. And I'm going to go back to the part about criminal provisions. The penalty provisions remain the same as those laid down in the Act on Offences. That law also stipulates that a legal person must pay a fine ranging from 100,000 to 300 million tolars. For a legal person, 30 million tolars means nothing. I am talking about certain producers of phytopharmaceuticals or pesticides, who make such enormous amounts of money with these funds, that they are also paid 30 million to produce the matter further. The law does not regulate this, so in the Slovenian National Party we appeal to the Minister to correct this in the second reading and to introduce into the criminal provisions that the person who does the damage must pay all the damages, and then the fine he has to pay will follow, and in the event of serious infringements or serious problems arising from these mistakes, the penalty must follow. In the Slovenian National Party, we expected this law earlier, substantially earlier. And it goes a little bit towards the Minister of Environment and Space, because the law has passed a little before the elections, so that we can often think that the law is ready as a pre-election matter and that there is not enough for it to settle. However, if the law is adopted in this form, it will have to be governed by another authority to follow that authority. Therefore, if nothing else, Mr Minister, I hope that you will take these comments into account, and that that other authority will have at least a slightly more firm grip on punishing those who destroy the Slovenian environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you. And also the position of the LDS MP club, which Branko Janc presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u55	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The current Environmental Protection Act, adopted in 1993, laid the foundations for systemic environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia. It has unified the principles of environmental protection and has upgraded the sector's way of regulating environmental protection by establishing a legal framework to facilitate sustainable development. On the basis of this law, a number of implementing rules have been put in place so far relating to emission limits and emission values, rules of conduct, environmental impact assessment, monitoring of the state of the environment and its burdens and environmental burdens. Operational programmes containing measures to improve the state of the environment and others have also been adopted. These regulations enable the implementation of administrative, professional and control mechanisms in the field of air, water and soil quality protection, noise and radiation protection, as well as the implementation of instruments for regulating the use and exploitation of natural goods. Under the Environmental Protection Act, a national environmental protection programme has been adopted, containing long-term environmental objectives, guidelines and tasks, as well as a series of emerging operational programmes. Under the Environmental Protection Act, reports were prepared on the state of the environment, which we considered and adopted in the National Assembly. The latest report on the state of the environment for 2002 was adopted in the National Assembly in December last year. A number of principles and instruments of international environmental treaties and declarations, such as the UN Declaration on the Environment and Development of Rio de Janeiro, the Basel Convention, the Convention on Climate Change and the Convention on Biodiversity and the fundamental principles and certain requirements of European Union legislation, have already been incorporated into the law on environmental protection. Since the Republic of Slovenia has not yet formally decided on full membership in the European Union at the time of the implementation of the Environmental Protection Act, the requirements of the European Union legal acts on environmental protection which were in force at the time of its adoption were not consistently transposed and complied with. The concept of an existing law on environmental protection has proven to be an effective legal framework for the transposition of the European Union directives governing environmental protection by means of its systemic solutions. Most of the directives relating to emissions, environmental quality, monitoring, waste management, environmental impact assessment and so on have been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by law and enforcement. Thus, Slovenia's legal order in the field of environmental protection is almost fully in line with the European Union's acquis. However, due to a more consistent adaptation to the legal acts of the European Union already in force in the wake of the implementation of the environmental law, and even more so to the large number of new legal acts of the European Union, the law in force is no longer sufficient ground for the transposition of the requirements of the relevant Directives of the European Union, which require legal regulation for constitutional reasons. Thus, one of the most important reasons for the adoption of the new environmental law is a consistent adaptation to the requirements of European Union law in the field of environmental protection, which were known when the environmental law was enacted. The transposition of those legal acts of the European Union which have not yet been transposed by environmental law into the Slovenian legal order and the establishment of a legal framework to facilitate the implementation of the legal acts of the European Union that apply directly in the territory of the Member States. In the LDS, we are convinced that the proposal for a new law on environmental protection regulates all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u56	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I give my word to my colleague Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while. I was convinced that this law was coalitionly coordinated and that the parties to the ruling coalition would defend it here in Parliament. And that's how I hear that they're troublesome with the solutions in this law. They are said to object to the centralisation of fees and to be managed as part of the state budget. They say that this would weaken the congregations, which of course is true, even say that it would result in two speeds for Slovenia. Dear colleagues from the ruling coalition and from the government, we already have Slovenia at two speeds today, we already have a developed and underdeveloped part. And what this law foresees is that those environments that are rich, which already have sufficient investment resources, could invest even more so that those environments, those poorer municipalities, which, of course, are required by other laws to take care of environmental protection, to build cleaning facilities and so on. So that's, I'd say, the world's wrong. This is the wrong world. We have said that we do not see everything in this law, what the law has already planned, enacted, but the Slovenian government has not done so far. But now it is coming to the Slovenian public because of what has already been said, because of the upcoming elections with some new law and with new requirements, which, of course, will have to be carried out by a new ruling coalition, which will be formed after this year's national elections. That's actually the whole story of this marriage. However, with other laws, if, of course, some other mechanisms govern, financial incentives will not be intended to promote environmental protection, it is simply not possible to achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the proposer, the Minister for the Environment, Space, Energy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. I wanted to respond to all the debaters on behalf of the groups later, and I will. However, in order not to repeat what Mr Sok has just mentioned, I would like to say in advance, or already in between, that what you are saying is absolutely not true. I don't know where you see this in marriage, both Mr. Weber and Mr. Sok. I guess it's just a misunderstanding. Taxes are state taxes in the existing environmental law, i.e. waste loading tax, waste water tax. It's all state taxes now. This law doesn't make any difference. And these fees are charged, they are state-owned, but if there are investments in the congregation, Mr Tanko spoke of good practice that this is the best example of good practice, they are kept in the congregation. And that's how it's gonna be. So it's with the public service provider. This is, of course, in the local public ministry in the congregation, and he is nowhere else. Thus, this law does not at all allow any mechanism for an environmental tax from one congregation to be passed on to another. That's not what this marriage is about. And don't say that we're now introducing some centralisation or anything, because you don't have to find this in this law. It may be a misunderstanding, but that's not what this marriage is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u60	Thank you. I'm giving the word to Jozet Auschwitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. In my debate, which I have changed slightly, I wanted to talk about this, as Mr Minister has now explained, even in response to some of the debates already put forward on behalf of the groups of Members. Nor did I hear that the coalition types would produce a message that marriage would not be supported as a suitable basis for second reading. Of course, the general debate in the first reading in the plenary is intended to tell us what appears to be at issue in the law and to agree in the next stages whether such a disputed solution is being resolved, and in what way, the amendment in the second reading is being corrected. This is the purpose of today's debate, of course. Perhaps Mr. Minister did not say just one thing, that is, and perhaps that has deceived Mr. Weber. The law abolishes the possibility of prescribing environmental taxes to local communities. That's right. So far, the law in force has provided for this to be repealed. I don't think it's that controversial, and we shouldn't be overly critical of the marriage solution, because I don't think we can agree on the way that one of Slovenia's municipalities picked up at the end of last year, and I've decided to prescribe a taxi for all the trucks that drive around that municipality. And where would you come from if all municipalities in Slovenia were to provide for truck charges, each for their own municipality? There's been a complete mess. And in this part I think that such a solution is right and right, because environmental protection does not concern every municipality, but is actually a matter of state, in cooperation with local communities and all the facilities and entities that operate. Well, to get back to my thoughts that I was going to say here today. It is certainly true that the law preserves everything that has already been adopted by the current law to adapt domestic state law to the directives of the European Union and other acts to which Slovenia has acceded. It is also true that there are some of the purely own solutions contained in this law that we regulate or regulate in our own way. This may also be the area already mentioned today, the area of the management of chimney services in accordance with the smoker service law of the early Yugoslavia, which will be abolished by this law. And I join myself in thinking that cleaning would not be an indication to leave the market, because it is actually an activity that one expert team carries out at all stages and perhaps even needs to be cleaned at some point, only then can the state of the combustion plants, chimneys and so on be checked. We'll probably be able to agree on this in the second phase. Perhaps it has also been somewhat controversial to provide for the immediate termination or termination of the end of this year of all concession contracts concluded by the municipalities in accordance with the law in force, since this matter will also have to be examined as to the legal consequences of this. If an undertaking which operates for one or more municipalities and is professionally qualified, in accordance with the law, and has all the equipment, in accordance with the law, immediately loses the licence and then does not acquire it again, which may also happen after the invitation to tender. This issue, too, is likely to need to be addressed by the amendment. I've gone into quite a bit of detail in that part of the law when it comes to the national environmental programme, the operational programmes, the reports. There may also be some inconsistencies that I see in the fact that the national environmental protection programme, which is a long-term programme, is also based in one part on the report on the state of the environment, which is a four-year act. And of course, when we adopt a change or a new national programme, it will be based on the report of the last four-year period and will be valid over these four years, as operational programmes are being prepared for four years and are being prepared by the Ministry and adopted by the government. Perhaps even more controversially, it has been determined that a program of environmental protection is being prepared by the city congregation, or by the community of the congregations. This is about an area that we actually have in our legal order that is still unresolved. If we had a land law, it would probably say something different here. Thus, I do not see any particular reason for the law to impose on the municipalities - it imposes, for it says, the city council prepares the program - and as an option and opportunity leaves to other municipalities. Of course, because of the diversity of municipalities and other towns in Slovenia, I do not think it will be okay, let's say that Slovenj Gradec will have to prepare a program for environmental protection, but Krško for nuclear - you will not; or Zagorje, Trbovlje, Hrastnik and so on. In short, this too would lead to weighing and perhaps leaving it to complement when we have the provinces. However, I estimate that such programmes should be at a lower level. However, Slovenia should be fully covered, and thus those municipalities in which important potential environmental pollutants are also located, which should be given special attention to you in the local environment. I also have one question about education for environmental experts - it is a small but also feasible amendment correction - where university education is required. That is fine, but I think that a high level of vocational education, which according to the law on higher education, is one of the educational levels in Slovenia, which is quite equivalent to university education, would also be appropriate, especially because academic and scientific staff are to be educated at the university level, and at the level of vocational schools, and experts in specific fields. And the opinion or revision of a programme should not be based solely on scientific grounds, but also on professional solutions that are reflected in practice and that are usually well known by those who work directly in the profession through their past work. I also have a little problem with the provision that only representatives of two ministries, namely the Environment, Space and Energy Ministries and the Ministry of Finance, may be present in the Supervisory Board of the Public Fund. Here, too, it would suggest that representatives of the Environmental Protection Council, as well as others, would be included in the public interest. In short, I think that this is a very important responsibility of the government itself through this instrument and the operation of the fund, and environmental protection is not only about the government and the responsibility of the government but also about all those working in this area. I'd have that for now. We'll probably have something to say on the committee when we meet with the entire debate and answer. Just as a comment or as a fact that bothers me, but also disturbs me at other levels, the number of inspection services operating in the field of environmental protection or controlling legislation that cares about our environment. These inspections are strongly too much, and I agree with those who point out that there is also a fear that this law will provide more bureaucracy and bureaucratic procedures when it comes to issuing consents and permits. And I think it might be good to clean up this area of inspection services and to organise an environmental inspection in a different way. If you look [[I think it's in 186, but it's not exactly like that.]] , is a huge inspection which under other laws has the right and duty to control the situation in the environment, and this is extremely fragmented. For example, the area of chimneys I have already talked about is controlled by an inspector for natural and other accidents. This may have been a major problem at times, but today this chimney service will be more dedicated to controlling emissions. In fact, this fire is not much in Slovenia. And this inspection, the inspector for natural and other accidents - in short, because you understand what I'm talking about - I think we have these different inspectors watching over the environment much too much, but the effects are always inversely proportional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u62	Thank you, Comrade Azhish. Ana Maria Tisovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In my view, the law on environmental protection should be primarily written for the quality of life of people and not just for the sake of agreeing with European directives and global instruments. If the bill had this in front of the eyes, it would be clearer what it really wants to do in the area of environmental protection. The basic provisions of the law set out the need to promote sustainable development, in terms of integrity and cooperation, but there are no more detailed guidelines for coordinating the operation of individual resources. I can thus see in Article 2(4) that only activities in all areas of economic and social development are mentioned, while space is not mentioned at all. I believe that environmental protection is very closely linked to the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. If this is not adjusted, I fear that the quality of life of people in Slovenia will not improve. Much attention is paid to the bill's proposal to environmental permits and to the assessment and impact on the environment and less to the causes of environmental degradation. I also have comments on the 51st article of this Act. Here are the tasks of the Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council should be given a much more active role in improving environmental protection. In the section on environmental monitoring and environmental information, it would also be very useful to add a new form of monitoring, the task of which would in particular be to identify weaknesses and inconsistencies in the functioning of different sources, which also indirectly contribute to environmental degradation. If you'll excuse me. Causes for the reduction of groundwater and, in this regard, for melioration or groundwater pollution due to chemicals used in agriculture. I know that harmonising spatial development in Slovenia on the one hand and protecting the environment on the other is very difficult to ensure quality of life, so once again I stress the importance of putting in place the right environmental strategy and the need for continuous monitoring of the state of the environment. Why they had to remind us from the EU of how we adhere to the Kyoto Protocol that we ratified and why our Minister of the Environment had to somehow admit that he does not actually have accurate data on the pollution of our environment with greenhouse gases. It is necessary to monitor pollution not only with greenhouse gases but also with ground-level ozone, with chemicals that burden the land both in agriculture and in the disposal of hazardous chemicals; and of course, most importantly, it is important to respond to these things. Environmental protection is a process that takes time, and it must be very flexible to do so. Slovenia is very rich in its diversity and as clean a country as possible, so it is our duty not only to preserve this situation, but also to improve it so that our country is friendly to stay with all our citizens and is more attractive and interesting to tourists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u64	Thank you. Just Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The explanation of the proposal for an environmental law adopted by the Government at the end of last November states that due to the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia, the law and certain regulations issued by the Government must be in force by 1 May 2004 at the latest. I'm sure we'll get the law under the roof by the deadline. However, I am concerned about how it will be under the law, especially if I look at how long the government is delaying with the adoption of a regulation on environmental light pollution, which has its basis in Article 27, paragraph 1, of the current law. On 8 May 1997, at a meeting of the National Assembly, I presented a parliamentary initiative to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a regulation on the reduction and control of light pollution. The Minister of the Environment, Dr Pavel Gantar, took the initiative at the time and also came across a good turnout in public. The problem of light pollution was first warned by Slovenian astronomers because the activity of the largest astronomical observatory at the Black Summit above Idria is seriously endangered by increasing light pollution in Slovenia. The Observatory is the most important European observation observatory for comets, and among the first in the world. Let me mention that the astronomer Herman Mikusz at this observatory was the first Slovenian to discover two new celestial bodies, an asteroid in history. Astronomers are called light that is lost in the sky, light pollution. This particular effort is made by astronomical observations, as many celestial bodies in the illuminated sky simply lose themselves. In addition to protecting the area of Slovenia's largest observatory and some other major such facilities, the Government's Light Pollution Regulation aims to reduce the movement of birds and insects, reduce energy consumption - it is estimated that up to 40% of public lighting facilities could be saved - protection of natural values, adequate public facilities and cultural historical monuments and streets and road infrastructure. The fact is that too much light is lethal to night insects, has a negative impact on birds and poor biodiversity. Too strong and inadequate light is, of course, disturbing to us humans. Let me mention that the Ministry of the Environment has already presented a government regulation at the public hearing in April 2001. However, the Committee on the Environment adopted the conclusion, which reads as follows: "The Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment and participants in the public presentation of opinions on environmental light pollution propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the opinions, comments and proposals from the public presentation and to take due account when preparing the proposal for a regulation on environmental light pollution." Let me mention that, on this occasion, we have also issued a special publication that is considered to be the most thorough professional and extensive work on light pollution in the wider international scale. For the book has 200 pages of in-depth texts with this subject. Of course, this regulation does not propose that we turn off the lights. Astronomers, environmentalists and nature lovers need only better lighting that shines down where we need light, and not up where it is lost to the sky and no one benefits. Good lighting - let me mention that the evening lighting of the facade of the National Assembly is valid for an excellent case of a properly lit public building, is not too strong, does not illuminate the sky and is energy-efficient. Let me reiterate that by implementing this Regulation we could save up to 40% of the costs incurred by the State and local communities and by economic operators with public education. That government regulation also has its legal basis in the second chapter of the Act under consideration, which lays down measures in the field of environmental protection and emission limit values. Nevertheless, I propose that the government adopt that regulation as soon as possible, as this allows for the current environmental protection law. At the same time, I propose that each time a report on the environment to be prepared by the Ministry under Article 104 of the proposal also include data on environmental light pollution. I'd end up adding and opening another subject. I would briefly touch another problem, this is the sea of fish in our rivers. I have already pointed to this in the context of last July's questions. Last year we witnessed many fish seas in the Slovenian rivers due to a very hot and dry period. In particular, two cases were heard in public, in the Ljubljanica and Cerknica River, which is the Idrijca River inflow. Let me mention that despite the allegations of the sea in the river Cerknica, things are moving very slowly. I think that now, when this law is being considered, it is a real opportunity for the procedures relating to the powers to act in similar cases to be uniform, since in these two cases, three ministries have given each other a ball and, above all, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture. Although I have pointed out two pressing issues, I will support the law on environmental protection at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Beumann's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In my brief debate, I will focus mainly on one matter. I do not mean to talk about the content of the law itself, because I believe that what it is prepared is a good basis for a follow-up procedure and must be supported, as is announced today by most representatives of the Group. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the law is actually trying to include and upgrade some of the things set out in the last Directives of the European Union and at the same time to implement certain international legal acts such as the Kyoto Protocol and the Aarhus Convention. And in this regard, I would like to say a few words. The Kyoto Protocol ratified our Parliament last June, and I was proud of that. The Aarhus Convention has not yet been ratified by our Parliament. Ras, the introduction to the law states that the process of ratification is ongoing, but I must point out that we have been expecting for a good time that the law on ratification of the Aarhus Convention has appeared in the parliamentary procedure, especially since it seems to me that the second and third pillars of the Aarhus Convention are fully implemented by this law. These are pillars talking about the right of the public to co-decision in environmental or environmental matters and the third pillar talking about the judicial protection of this right and, of course, the right of the first pillar, which speaks of the right of the public to access information of an environmental nature. Of course, we have already passed a law on access to information of a public nature even last year, and in this way we have regulated this first pillar in some way. That is why I see no reason not to rush the ratification of the Aarhus Convention and, of course, to reach two laws at the same time at the same time; to ratify and to bring about a new law on environmental protection. Perhaps there is only one matter concerning the law itself, however, which concerns the Aarhus Convention in some way, namely the fact that the draft proposal for a new law on environmental protection no longer contains a declaration clause on the public of environmental data. I have to admit, it's very disturbing, and I'm predicting that I'm going to table an appropriate amendment at the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u68	My word to Mr. Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Much has been said today, but I do not want to repeat things, because I felt that there was not enough talk about waste that we see at every step of the way, from the fact that waste collection has already created a major Slovenian problem, and especially what will happen to those wastes at a certain time. [[...]] Let's say it's being collected separately, but it's being collected separately, and it's all being carried to landfills where there's waste. What's the point of a separate gathering then? And if it is a separate collection, it should somehow be systematically arranged to use it as a replacement energy or to use it as a waste material for further processing, as is done in the world. I think there should be more talk about that. After all, as far as incineration is concerned; I think there should be at least one incinerator in Slovenia a long time ago - two or three would probably have solved this problem. It is true that even if Slovenia does nothing for the European Union, it does not mean anything. It is one drop in the sea, but every man has his own value and all those - where the people are 50 million - are the voice of one man as worthy as the voice of one in Slovenia. Thus, we should not be burdened if anyone has any concerns, so I mentioned this. There's something else I'd like to mention. Mr. Bevk was talking about pollution. I don't know what he was going to say, except for those astronauts - sorry, those who observe heavenly bodies: or this also means that we should have streets dark at night, all the places in the dark and so on. I don't know what he was trying to say, but it was a good idea to clarify. Because I don't have time to finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor and invite Mr. Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, representatives of the government. We are probably all united in this House with regard to necessity and also with regard to a strategy on environmental protection in Slovenia, and I think there is nothing to read or apply here - and to what extent - to respect the standards developed by Europe and which we are developing ourselves. However, we probably differ in detail on how to do this, who to do it, and how to do it, and in particular on a number of occasions, we face the issue of funding. And in this first reading, I would like to speak in particular, referring to paragraphs 110 and 111 of the law, which defines environmental pollution benefits. I listened attentively to the Minister when he made it clear, on the basis of the debates of the parliamentary groups, that there was no change to be expected here. This is said, above all, to talk here about the purpose of charging water, which we know today in individual local communities can be allocated to investments in facilities, that is to say cleaning plants, sewage networks, which are intended to clean up waste water and thus protect the environment. However, if we read the concept of this law, we see that the government can prescribe environmental benefits to the polluter. And the causers-- they know who they are. They're just taxpayers to pay the tax, those who cause this pollution. These are individuals. This means, let's say that, just as so far as these debtors are paying the fees, as they are paying today through the checkers, the amount will be determined, as I see, by the law on the implementation of the budget for each financial year. But then there is the problem arising from this law - the intention of spending this tax in some local environment. For nowhere does it say that the municipality or anyone else will be able to use these pooled funds for investment, since, under Article 111, the government will, of course, be able to provide in a specific regulation that the debtor has the right to repay the environmental taxes already paid. This is said to be a citizen who is not a citizen - yes, it says, gentlemen: "The Government may, in the regulation referred to in paragraph 1 of the previous Member, lay down that the debtor has the right to refund the environmental duty already paid if these funds are used to implement measures to adapt to the prescribed limits of value, or rules of conduct, or to implement other measures that contribute to the reduction of environmental pollution below the prescribed level." The debtors, however, are clearly seen in Article 10, where they are persons causing pollution. In short, I think, gentlemen, that we can be united so that the existing system can be maintained. The existing system, this is a system by which the environment, the local community in which these state fees are collected, with concrete projects - approved by the Ministry, as before - of course until some time in the year, then, of course, this means investing. And if they are deliberately intended for an approved project, they do not need to be allocated to the state budget. I think it's a correct solution, which is now in force. And I understand, Mr. Minister, that there is no point in changing that. If that is the case, I would ask, for the sake of clarity, that this may also be clearly stated in the provisions of the law, because this seems crucial to me. I am somewhat comforted by your gesture because I see that you intend to maintain this good practice, as also mentioned by my fellow Member, Jože Tanko. Of course, this law no longer allows local taxes to be collected. Look, I also agree with my colleague Auschwitz when he said that this standard can also be misused for such purposes that - I don't know - it prescribes what an environmental tax, which does not actually have anything to do with then also with measures to reduce some pollution of the environment. However, I think it would be worth considering the possibility of collecting, including local tax collection, if, of course, this money is exclusively and on the basis of approved projects and on the basis of a follow-up check, it is intended to either cure environmental abuse or, of course, for new projects that raise the level of environmental protection. Let me give you an example. Like a black-deposit rehabilitation. The rehabilitation of black landfills by local communities is a matter of local budgets and, of course, the state or local community must consume certain other legal obligations that they have the duty to finance from budgets, on account of their unwillingness to live in a cleaner environment. Then the establishment of these so-called ecological islands - whether it is now otherwise called - or all of these options for separate collection of waste. Finally, with the new direction of these central regional dumps, there will be a whole set of investments in these pool centres, in equipment for compression, transport, collection of waste which are, of course, part of already state fees, but I think it is right that we should also be able to introduce local taxes in this way. Once again, I stress: local taxes if they are deliberately spent on environmental protection-related measures and investments. These local taxes can, of course, vary from environment to environment. They're somewhere. They're nowhere. I mean, to close the door to this possibility in the law - it's only worth considering whether or not to let it go. I would suggest that we also leave this option behind, in particular because of this same objective, that this means that money can be collected on purpose for environmental protection-related measures. I am interested in another information that the Ministry certainly knows: in the Member States of the European Community and elsewhere, not least through taxes or such or other charges, our citizens are paying these measures to protect the environment. It is interesting if we compare Slovenia with the tax system, which, for example, applies to this moment or to the burden of households or our citizens with taxes or environmental taxes; where are we in the European space? Are we low, or are we medium, but are we high - in short, how is the average Slovenian taxpayer burdened by these higher-a-vis taxes of this new environment where we come from? However, I also think that by changing the social order in Slovenia and also by restructuring industry, and also by reducing these production activities, a huge, huge step Slovenia has taken towards a better environment, as most of the problem industries have gone bankrupt or otherwise went out of business, remain only - in my opinion - these main power plants with thermal power plants that are significantly polluting the air. As far as water is concerned, I think it's also a step forward. In short, of course, I will be happy to support all the solutions of this law, which will be directed in this direction, that whatever this law prescribes a duty, that it is indeed 100% also devoted to environmental protection measures. Therefore, it is not entirely clear to me whether all environmental duties will be applied to measures at the same time, even in Articles 110 and 111. Will that be only 80% of them and 20 will be lost in the integrated budget? In short, I think it would also be appropriate to write that all the taxes collected are also devoted to these measures, but not that only part of the measures should be devoted to them. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u73	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be brief. Our comments on the marriage have already been made by colleague Weber, so I have nothing to add to this. On this occasion, however, I would warn not only the ministry, but the government, as such, all of us, that this law, although it is well prepared to bring a number of important solutions - we will not be satisfied with the environmental or environmental burdens only that we are burdening with industry, economy, transport, to the extent that it somehow heals itself, or that the wounds caused by development itself will heal. It is therefore very important that we pay particular attention to the awareness of people. It may not be strictly legal matter, but it is a strategy for all of us to act through the media, and through appropriate marketing, we begin to bomb the public with expectations for each individual of our citizens and citizens how to deal with the environment. We know what a sorted waste strategy means, but at a time when the citizen himself has to take care of his or her source, the situation is weak; not all stick to it. And as I perceive in other, perhaps more developed countries of the European Union, this campaign is daily and is almost like a hammer, on television, on the radio and in newspapers, which must warn us that if we do not today behave as the environment requires us, it may be too late tomorrow or more radical measures, including radical, severe cuts in our customs, our customs in the field of transport, urbanism, energy and so on. That is how much more work remains to be done after we also have the legal basis for which we all know - and I am glad that we are quite united here - that it brings a number of important solutions. Of course, it is about doing more in this marriage, for what we will leave to our craftsmen will not only be forgiven, but will also reduce our life span or the life span of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I call on the Minister, Mr. Copac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u75	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! I would like to respond to some claims, some proposals and some criticisms. First, I would like to thank you for the constructive debate. I do not think anyone has said that the law is completely unnecessary, distasteful or anything like that, except perhaps Mr Sok, who said that the directives could be applied directly. Let me say - and of course this does not apply only to the environment, this applies to all legal acts of the European Union - the directives are translated into national legislation by law. This does not only apply to the environment, this is true for all, and it is worth learning how it looks in Europe. As far as the regulations are concerned, these are so-called'regulatories', they apply directly; the Directives must be enforced in the form of a law. Well, I'll go in the back, if you don't mind. Mr. Visjak says there is an individual in charge of these fees. I'm not saying anything, but maybe we wrote awkwardly about the definition of the debtor, but the liability for environmental taxes is a public service contractor, it's a municipal utility, etc. But if there's anything embarrassing written down, we'll fix it. As far as the rehabilitation of black landfills and possible municipal fees are concerned, I must say that this is inappropriate because you cannot establish such a base. You don't find anyone or, you don't know who took something to a black landfill there, so you can't count it on a ton of black waste. Such a base cannot be decided, but the rehabilitation of black landfills is possible through money or waste disposal fees where the debtor is a public service provider. It's just a matter of a submarital act. Even now, in a sub-legislative government act, where we define why this tax can be applied, there are, for example, collection centres inside, which is not directly related to waste disposal. If we add to this submarital act that it is possible to repair black landfills, then it will also be possible from the same tax that already exists. And I think it's a good idea, and in this direction we'll be thinking about the next change, which can also be quite fast. The data on the fees you asked, Mr Vizjak, I don't have this moment, but I can say that as far as the number of fees is concerned, we are in Slovenia, almost I can say European recorders. But not in height. However, we are slightly above the European average. So much in mind, but we can deliver more specific information. As regards Mr Beumann's debate and the Aarhus Convention, I must say that it has really been delayed for some time. However, the fact is that the Aarhus Conventions have not yet been ratified by practically any European Union country and that we have also chosen their path; this is to first draft acts which constitute the implementation of the Aarhus Convention, only then to ratify it, because this is also more serious. But we can do it in parallel. We have the ratification prepared and the law on environmental protection is together with the law on access to environmental information implementing the Aarhus Convention and we can do this in parallel - I think there is no embarrassment. As far as Mr Bevik's debate is concerned, light pollution. It is true that we have this officially prepared, although this is not a European topic, that Europe has no commitment to light pollution, but we could have foreseen such a limitation, but in the debate that, although the regulation is already ready, we have thought that we now are burdened by municipalities, municipal companies, with so much new costs to take over the acquis of the European Union, that this means an enormous burden. Light pollution, which is not regulated in Europe, can wait a little longer. That was our thought. As I know that this is the problem of the astronomical observatory at the Black Summit on Idria, we are now thinking that only in the surroundings from which light pollution interferes specifically with this astronomical observatory, this is regulated by a regulation, and the rest of Slovenia would temporarily leave unregulated because this is not necessarily necessary in our opinion. Mr Ašič had some very good suggestions, I must say, which, of course, we will try to include in the text. I thank you for these proposals, but that is all I want to say is that the discussion on the environmental programme to be prepared in the municipalities requires clarification. The existing Environmental Protection Act, adopted in 1993, stipulated that the city’s municipalities must prepare an environmental protection programme. The municipalities were, however, - the reform on local self-government was in 1994. And we must not impose any new obligations on the municipalities under the current constitution without their agreement. You know that. Therefore, we can only assume the existing 1993 obligation, which applies only to urban municipalities. We cannot write here that the congregations need to prepare their environmental programmes. That's what the lawyers have explained to us, and that's why there's a diction left in here, which means a copy of the existing environmental law. Mr Štemberger's theme - thank you for it - but I must explain our position in one of the statements. He said that the existing municipal chamber of Slovenia is based or that it is based on an existing law on environmental protection. That's not true. The existing law on environmental protection provides only for the obligation to unite in the Chamber, not in the Municipal Chamber, at any Chamber of Commerce, but also in the Chamber of Commerce. And the founders of the municipal chamber have, I can say, abused the existing text of the law on environmental protection, so they went to set up their own chamber, in our opinion - I think that Mr Vebra's discussion was also - this is a very bad solution. This break-up in two chambers weakens this sector, and as a government, we do not have the serious interlocutor we would like. That's why I think it's better to bring together these two chambers. Mr Jelinčič suggested that a provision should also be made between criminal provisions on the crime of destroying the biotope. This proposal does not seem to me to be a place, although the initiative itself is commendable, because the existing Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia defines this as a crime. It's already arranged there. Maybe someone will say that the punishment is too small there - I don't even know this moment how big it is - but it's defined as a crime. I therefore believe that it is right that criminal offences are governed by a criminal code and that the law on environmental protection is governed by its substance. He also said that this might be a pre-election law, because a number of sub-legislative acts would then have to be adopted within the next term. I must say that I am not guilty of having entered the European Union by accident on 1 May 2004, which means that we have elections in Slovenia. That wasn't on purpose. However, I can guarantee that by the end of this government's term of office we will have prepared all the sub-legislative acts envisaged by this law. Mr Tanko had a number of constructive suggestions and comments. However, he mentioned two allegations that were not correct. He said that trends in environmental protection were poor. The report on environmental protection, which you had two months ago, three months ago, here in Parliament, explicitly showed on the basis of data, not based on flat-rate claims that trends in environmental conditions are improving everywhere except for emissions from transport. But we have negative trends there. In other words, trends are improving and these trends are not just improving themselves, but because of a specific policy of environmental protection, which has been going on for 10 years. This is not precisely the credit of this government, but rather the strict provisions on emissions allowed, after all, the closure of individual production plants, the fees that make municipalities and businesses invest in environmental investments, then the ecological reservations in the property transformation of enterprises and so on. All of these were instruments that forced businesses and municipalities to invest in them, and this is, of course, known in improved environmental trends. His second claim that the existing law on environmental protection still does not have all the sub-laws or that they are missing - he talked more about government in general - a hundred more, of course he does not. I am now speaking for the entire Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy - we need to adopt more by 1 May, I think 16 sub-legislative acts based on existing laws. Among them are the under-laws based on this law, which must be adopted before May 1st, not all need to be adopted, and that is all. This will close our business. So to think that there's no submarital acts missing dozens and hundreds of them, it doesn't. Mr Weber mentioned the thesis on centralising the collection of taxis, but I hope I have already explained this in my speech after Mr Sok's performance. He also mentioned the fear that trading in greenhouse gas emissions would lead to Slovenia two speeds, if I understood correctly. That's absolutely not true. It's this mechanism that's going to make it impossible to do that. Because if a firm were to be specified exactly how specific that undertaking would have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, some of them would, of course, have to face an impossible situation. Europe is also aware of this, as this is, after all, a European standard - greenhouse gas emissions trading. Indeed, emissions trading should allow for a gradual adjustment of individual companies. And so that's exactly what's trying to do is that there's no regions or economies or sectors of higher speed, but that everybody can adapt to that. Those who have adjusted earlier and have a bonus will, of course, cash out this bonus, but those who have not yet adapted will be able to buy a vacation and thus temporarily survive until they adjust. I thank Mr Lenk for his suggestions and they were constructive. As far as Mr Sok is concerned, I would like to say that the type of claim from his performance is indeed not true. I'd like to mention next to what I already am, just two more. Indeed, it says here that the wild is a state property, but this does not mean an adjustment to the newly adopted wild and hunting law, but it does mean a copy of the existing Environmental Protection Act 1993. This provision is identical and urchins now in force. But we can also delete it with an amendment because it is now covered in the law on savagery and hunting. As for his statement that we are introducing a whole range of new institutions here, as the example was given by the Environmental Protection Council, to establish a new one and that this is unnecessary, I must say that the Environmental Protection Council is an institution that already exists under the existing Environmental Protection Act of 1993. The Environmental Protection Council shall be the body under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. It's your organ. It's run by a professor, Dr. Lobnik. It's an extremely active organ. And, of course, the lack of knowledge of the existence of such an authority is not the best way forward for the quality of the debate on the law on environmental protection. After all, it is only necessary for such a debate to have some basic preconception about the content of this legislation. However, once again, I thank you for a number of constructive comments, which, of course, we will then try to turn through the debate into amendments on the home committee as well. In this way, we all get a coherent text, which, of course, will be of benefit - not only for the European Union's standards to be prescribed, but for the benefit of the citizens and citizens of this country in their efforts to improve the protection of the environment or to improve our environment, as Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic also mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Marshich to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister and coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! Personally, I believe that the present law is a good and good basis for further consideration by us in the National Assembly, and that it brings news, which is mainly towards further harmonisation of our legislation on environmental protection to European legislation. Now, if we are talking about the need in our country - there has been a lot of talk - to limit discharges, and above all to treat pollutants restrictively, I think that one of the more important articles here is the 99th article talking about operational monitoring. The law states that it is the cause of the burden that must be monitored in carrying out its activities on the impact of its activities on the environment. I believe that's what the previous marriage said. It also states, of course, that the person referred to in this paragraph must communicate the operational monitoring data to the Ministry and the municipality. In particular, the Minister prescribes the types of emissions, standards, quality and natural phenomena that are subject to operational monitoring. Of course, the law also prescribes who is the one who can implement this monitoring. It means an authorized organization. The question to me here is given that this monitoring, of course, if paid by the contracting authority, is usually the cause of the environmental burden. Is there also a solution to the fact that the actual cause of the burden is not a direct contracting authority or one who chooses an authorised organisation? In fact, they would avoid all those dilemmas and problems in the public when, in the event of continuous diverging opinions, whether emissions exceed the prescribed quantities or not would simply be avoided. I think that particular emphasis should be placed on ongoing monitoring and unannounced tests or measurements. For all else leaves some doubt that there may also be some agreement between the contracting authority itself and the monitoring operator. And what I think is very important - what it introduces to the new law - is indicated here in the explanation that the law does not contain the institution of the rehabilitation program. So far, it has allowed certain devices to operate under adapted conditions even after the adjustment time has elapsed. This has always been the subject of some manipulation and "stress" and it is good that we have aligned this part with the European Union, which no longer knows this coordinating or rehabilitation institute; this means that those who fail to meet the criteria will simply have to stop. We also have a case in Cyprus that has been dragging for a long time, a case that has been dragging for a long time, for example, Kemiplas, because it is actually one such "never ending story", where even through the blurry of the owners themselves, this agony of pollution of this plant continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you very much. And Mr. Spindler? You don't want to. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u79	Thank you. I'm sorry. I jumped in front of Mr. Marshich earlier. That's all I want to say. Now, theoretically, after the existing law, an inspection could at its own expense order monitoring, but it does not do so, but impose monitoring on the polluter. We now have a provision under Article 157 here that an extraordinary test can also be ordered at the costs of the monitoring operator. Because usually an inspection has money problems, so we're not going to get into that right now, and that's not gonna be the problem anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else would like to discuss it? Please, if you raise your hands. Mr. Sok, Mr. Bevk, and no one else. Five minutes each. Here you go, Mr. Sok, then Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I am also obliged by the ministers to respond to some of his claims. Mainly in my performance, I spoke about environmental problems, which are evident, which are real, which everyone can see. I tried in the available time that I had, as far as I could see, quite accurately, but the Minister did not touch it and replied to some of the other statements. Firstly, it was probably a misunderstanding if you understood that I said that the directive was being applied directly. I was thinking about regulation. I allow the possibility that I have also said the directive, I know that the directives should be registered in our legislative system. However, I have said that because of the two directives that you have cited in your explanation for this law and which require the adoption of a new law, there is no need to amend the law in its entirety. For this law, as such, ends with many acts of law. Almost every other article in this law requires some kind of sub-legal act, allowing the government, in fact, to regulate this area by means of sub-legislative acts. Parliament, which adopts such a law and claims that such a law is good, in fact, adopts an empty law, which represents only a framework that allows the government to regulate it just as it has imagined. I also said that, by complying with this Directive, it is necessary to give the opportunity to participate in environmental problems to various non-governmental institutions, and for this reason, it makes no sense to me that the Council for the Protection of the Environment, which I know already exists under the present law, is somehow redefineing this law. This world will have to be named for a new one, a new one will have to adopt a statute, and so on, and I said that such bureaucracy in this area is unnecessary and that it would be better if different NGOs were given a little more competence for different areas because they show an interest in cooperation, both in the preparation of projects and later in the implementation of projects themselves. In such a way as is now enshrined in this law that they can participate in something, but whether the government takes them into account or not, of course, we have not taken a significant step against these organisations, but they are actually complaining that they cannot participate in it in the way that a regulated democratic society would require them, and that they are somehow excluded. I have mentioned this, and I can say once again, a national energy programme where representatives of civil institutions have made it clear that they have not cooperated, even though you have ensured that all those who had something to say were present. As far as centralisation in tax collection is concerned, I read the law myself. The government can handle things the way they are now, but this is not the case with this law. I will read to you - because this is what already was tried by my fellow Member Vizjak to show you. In Article 110(1), you wrote: "The polluter is obliged to pay the environmental taxes that tax environmental pollution. Environmental duties are the revenue of the country's budget." Article 4 then states: "The Government shall specify in more detail the type of pollution, the basis for calculating the environmental duty and the liability for the individual environmental duty, its height and the manner in which it is calculated, the dosages and the payment." So far all is well, and then 111th paragraph, fourth paragraph: "The Government shall specify in more detail the criteria and conditions for reimbursement, exemption or reduction of the payment of the environmental duty and what is considered eligible costs." So it's hard for us Members today to think differently than it is for us to think about [[End warning sign]] - I will conclude immediately - an additional form of centralisation, but when we leave all this area to government regulation, and just as the government wants to regulate it, it will be regulated. I am warning this and I can't help but conclude that this is leading to further centralisation, because the practice in Slovenia shows that this is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nevertheless, I do not think that the European Union is only so saveable that we could not solve any of the regulations in our own particular way and perhaps, in this sense, also serve as an example to the other countries of the European Union. We spoke informally to save only the narrow area of the astronomical observatory Black Peak above Idrija, which is indeed one of the world's most important observational observatories for comets. However, I would take this opportunity and still appeal to consider whether they would not continue to draft this Regulation, as it could include longer transitional periods that would not harm anyone. In the draft of this Regulation, presented by the Secretary of State. These transitional periods are from one to five years, which was published in July 2001 in this publication of the National Assembly. Even now, some have been able to adapt, since this story has been going on for seven years. These transitional periods could be significantly longer and would nevertheless be adopted by this Regulation. However, if they decide not to, I appeal to this regulation for a narrower area of this important observatory. Let me say that since the debate on light pollution, we have also been overtaken by neighbouring Croatia, which has adopted regulations at the local level. But on a global scale, because we also reviewed the legal regulation in this area, the United States of America's legacy is that they started dealing with this problem 50 years ago and have adopted regulations today at the level of federal states, for example. Arizona, Michigan, Waoming, etc. Italy, our neighbouring country, also has this well-ordered at local level, while the draft law is waiting in both their chambers. This problem is also being addressed in the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Germany and would therefore appeal for further reflection on the regulation on the prevention of light pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, and we will decide today in the context of the 17.15 vote, in accordance with the course of the meeting. Until then, I also interrupt the session and interrupt this agenda item. Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your cooperation. Thank you, too. At 5:15 a.m., we're moving to decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u85	I ask dear colleagues and respected colleagues to come to the great hall. It's 5:15 p.m., time to continue with the 33rd regular session. We are at its conclusion, when we vote on the agenda items on which we are on the agenda today. I'll just wait a minute for my colleagues to join us. Colleagues and colleagues, before the vote, I'll wait for you for a moment, so everyone can come to the hall. We will decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union is suitable for further consideration. 3.a Article 4 of the Constitution states, inter alia, that the relationship between the assembly and the government referred to in this paragraph is governed in more detail by the law adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, and therefore it is very important that we be vigilant in our decision-making. So I'll wait for you all to gather and then we'll move on to the decision. I think that, given the statements made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups, we can count on the law being adopted at first reading. However, I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and colleagues to the fact that it is the turn of the vote and that it is not worth the risk. Can we move on to a decision? Please check your voting devices. Does anyone have an objection? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore at the 13th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union. We will move to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union in the first reading is suitable for further consideration." The decision will be taken if two thirds of the Members and Members present vote for it. We're making a decision. 72 in attendance, 69 in and 3 in. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the decision is adopted by the required majority. This is also how this point is concluded. We are at the 14th item of the agenda - on the first reading of the draft law on environmental protection. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The order of the Environmental Protection Act in first reading is suitable for further consideration." We're making a decision. We vote on the proposal for a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration. 74 in attendance, 63 in and 9 in. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the decision has been adopted, so the law will be allocated to the working body, the point is concluded. For the 17th item of the agenda - discusses the proposal for an act on the succession of the former Yugoslavia agreements with New Zealand to remain in force between the Republic of Slovenia and New Zealand. The proposal for an act was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. The draft act was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. There are no announced debaters. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, so it is not possible to discuss them. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for an act. We're voting. 71 present, 66 for and none against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the act has been adopted and the point has been closed. On the 18th item of the agenda - discusses the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the termination of an agreement between the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the People's Republic of Hungary on the small border traffic of persons signed in Budapest on 5 November 1975. This proposal has also been tabled by the Government. The proposal was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy. He has not announced the debaters, no amendments have been tabled to the Act, so we are moving on to a decision on the law as a whole. We're voting. The law has been passed. 72 present, 63 for and none against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been passed and the point has been closed. Now we're going to move on to the 19th point - to confirm the official texts of the laws. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. I'll ask for your attention. We turn first to the decision on the following decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Animal Protection Act." We're voting. 71 in attendance, 63 in and 1 in. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to confirm the officially consolidated texts of the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a vote! 73 present, 56 to, 2 to. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency Act is confirmed." We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 75 present, 59 for, none against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal blindly: "The official text of the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava is confirmed." We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 69 present, 55 for, one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Law on Judicial Fees." We're voting. 70 present, 56 for and one against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "The official text of the Health and Health Insurance Act is confirmed." We're voting. 64 present, 50 in, two in. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the state border control law. We're voting. 69 present, 56 for and none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 and 2004 shall be confirmed." We vote on the confirmation of the purified text. 73 present, 55 to, 3 to. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] The decision is adopted. We have three more votes like this. First, on the proposal for a decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the Public Sector Wage System Act. We're voting. 70 present, 53 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] The decision is adopted. The official text of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act shall be confirmed. We're voting. 65 present, 52 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] Final decision on the decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the excise law." We're voting. This Decision is also adopted. 71 present, 55 for and one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] The agenda item is closed. We are at the 20th item of the agenda - on matters of a mandate-based electoral nature. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider: first, it will take note of the resignation of the Member from the presidency of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. He will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic to appoint the President of the Court of Auditors and the proposal by the Council of Justice to elect a candidate for judicial office. We are now moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First of all, the Member, Comrade Roberto Battelli, made a written statement on 31 December last year on the resignation of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly. In accordance with the second and third paragraphs of Rule 202 of the Rules of Procedure, I note that the assembly was informed of the following finding: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Mr Roberto Battelli made a declaration of resignation on 31 December 2003 from the office of the President of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore, as of today, his office is terminated." We are now moving on to a decision on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the President of the Court of Auditors. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšek, proposed, pursuant to Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors of the State Assembly, that he be appointed Minister Milan Cvikl as President of the Court of Auditors for a period of nine years. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the State want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. In accordance with Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the President of the Republic issued a repeated call by collecting proposals for possible candidates for the President of the Court of Auditors. Following a legal procedure and discussions with representatives of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic proposes to be the candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors, Master Milan Cwickl. As can be seen from the transferred materials, Mr Milan Cvikl meets all the legal requirements. Its professional references and work experience, such as participation in self-sustaining monetary legislation, work on public finance reform and preparation of state budgets, employment at a global bank, demanding international projects, co-authorisation of public finance comments and management of financial management in banking, are such as to ensure effective and impartial supervision of public finances spending. For these reasons and explanations, the applicant considers that the appointment of Mr Milan Cwickl as President of the Court of Auditors would constitute a guarantee that the Court of Auditors will carry out its constitutional and legal task while ensuring effective and transparent supervision of the regularity, prudence and legality of the use of all public finances in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will now hear a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups that have applied for this. First, my colleague, Sasha Peca, who quits. My friend John Squirrel? [[She doesn't want to.]] A fellow school? [[Not at all.]] And my buddy Tsukati? [[Yeah.]] Please. Mr Cukjat will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Our Group of Members, Mr. Squikel, will not support it. The reason is not so much in his qualities or inequities, but somewhere else. This is a function that is very important. This is the Court of Auditors, which is, in a way, the Supreme Supervisory Institute of Budget Consumption. And our system is such that it decides on the members of the Court of Auditors, most of them in the National Assembly, it's a government coalition. So the government is setting itself up by the one who is supposed to control it. This is as it is in all public institutions and all companies where the government is the majority owner, where you have managed to establish such supervisory councils in ten years with which you control yourself. We believe that this is an unhealthy situation and should be followed by foreign countries. Let me mention only Germany, where it is fully in line with political hygiene, that the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors is appointed by the opposition, at least by the Vice-President. Since that is not the case, we will protest against your proposals for any candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I have not received the application of Members and Members to the debate, so the debate is closed. We are now moving to the vote, so I ask your attention. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors appointing the President of the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly shall vote in secret. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the Commission, composed of the chairmen and four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. Representatives of the parliamentary groups forwarded me proposals for a member or members of the Commission. These are: colleague Moge, colleague Kelemin, colleague Juri and colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Does anyone have a different suggestion, or is that against it? I'm guessing there's no one. This will be the first time we will decide on the composition of the Commission. We decide on the composition of the commission. 69 present, 66 for and one against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the commission, as proposed, has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a vote shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the table of the President and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid, and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Head of the Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. The National Assembly is now moving on to a secret ballot. Please, Member of Parliament and Members, who will assist in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The time is five minutes past half past six. The vote will begin at 5:45 p.m. and will last until 6:00 p.m. Is 15 minutes enough? That's enough. By 6 p.m., then the electoral commission will meet again and find the result that I will deliver ten minutes later, which is expected to be at 18.10 p.m. One more time. We shall vote at 5.45 p.m. and shall end by a vote at 6 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u90	May I invite my colleagues and colleagues to the hall? We'll continue the session. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors, please come to the Chamber. Minutes of the conclusion of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 29 January 2004. 73 votes were distributed, 73 were cast, 1 was invalid, 72 were valid, 42 were votes in favour against 30 Members and Members of Parliament. On the basis of the outcome, the vote was not voted by the majority of all Members and Members as President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Milan Squeakle. Because it's mag. MilanCwickl, a candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors, has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, I will immediately inform the President of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 8, paragraph 6, of the Law on the Court of Auditors. I thank the candidate, and I wish him well. The proposal for a decision on the election to a judicial function is the next item in the agenda. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election to the judicial function of Mrs Karina Konec to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Vrhnika. The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. The president doesn't want a word. Otherwise, no one's proposed. In this way, I will conclude the debate and move to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Karina Konec to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Vrhnika. We are voting on election to a judicial seat. May I have your attention in the hall, please? 63 present, 55 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the decision has been made. This concludes the agenda item. We are moving on to the third item on the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law amending the law on trade. On Tuesday, 27 January this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the competent working body, the drafters of the law have drawn up a harmonisation amendment to Article 1 and the harmonisation amendments for the new Articles, 1a, 1b and 1c. You have received the harmonisation amendments and the correction of the harmonisation amendment to Article 1. Could you please take a look at these materials so there won't be any misunderstandings? I think we have four decisions to make. Can we move on to a decision? Would you like a representative of the bill's proponents? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u91	Your Honor! We are facing a harmonisation amendment that has been tabled in third reading. With regard to this harmonisation amendment, I wonder whether such an amendment to Article 1 as we have before us is also a willful harmonisation amendment that has proved to be with the referendum. Because I think that at least three fundamental points differ with the will that the proposaler has placed on the people at the referendum, and in this sense, I think it is also indirectly changing, a referendum decision. First and foremost, I think it changes there when the so-called limited area expands from 80 square meters to 150 meters. In this sense, I believe that it is a matter of adjusting the restrictions imposed and intended at that time. On the other hand, it standardises in some way what life articles are, regardless of allowing them to be defined in a sub-legislative act, but restricts them to shops that have more than half of the articles in their set. At the same time, it does not offer or offer a rather senseless definition of life’s articles because it defines them as those where the customer has to think about them for more time or articles that we buy without special consideration. Of course, in this respect, it is a lot of open questions, questions and also manipulation of the issue raised in the referendum. In this respect, I cannot agree with such an amendment, because it nevertheless indirectly modifies the decision of the people, for whom the applicants under the name of so-called family care have fought so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u92	Look, we're deciding on the law and I'm asking you to be careful. We're in the process of coordinating the amendments. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we will move on to the decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 1. My friend Anderlič
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u93	Of course we're really embarrassed. My colleague Majda already talked about it, but... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u94	Just a minute, buddy Anderlich. Sorry to interrupt. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Perfect silence. Please, colleague of Pozsonchev, please remain calm. I have to. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please. [[...]] My friend Anderlich. I'm sorry. I apologize for naming you all creating unrest. [[...]] My friend Anderlich has one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u95	The situation under this amendment, in particular the way in which we have adopted the law, that we have come to the point where, with a correction to the harmonisation amendment, we have to deal with something so important that even during the referendum, it is very questionable to do so. It's simply that I regret it. Although I will vote in favour - because I have no other choice, because the exercise of the will expressed in the referendum - but it is something that I do not understand or try to understand. It is clear that some coalition parties and, of course, trade unions have been involved and that, in the meantime, since they introduced a law restricting the surface to certain meters, that they have then, in a campaign with the referendum and the referendum itself, spoken of one, come through the back door to the national assembly with a proposal that clearly corresponds to a certain group of trades or to any individual or other. It's impossible to understand otherwise that from 80 to 150. Why not 149 or 181? I'm just wondering. I am sorry that, of course, there is nothing I can do at this stage and it is very interesting to read the magnetogram of what was happening on the Committee on the Economy. And of course, I myself know what was before the Committee on the Economy and I know what was provided there and, of course, after seeing what was actually written in the amendment and now in the harmonisation amendment and in the correction to the harmonisation amendment. This is also, in fact, quite new to the fact that we have a correction to the harmonisation amendment. I mean, it's just that, you can't fix it at this point. Human will is being done. However, it must be said that it is an abuse of this institution by those who are most involved in proposing referendums, but it is. I hope it will show up in the following article, to whom you wrote this amendment on your skin, who is the one who prepared it for you to go to that dimension. Tell me if it's 150 meters standard. Do we have standard stores here? Do we have regulations that are just the ones that determine the size of the store? But you haven't arranged what is really necessary, so what are the necessities of life and so on. You didn't define that. And you let the government do that. Because you yourself had the whole initiative in your hands, you've also got people to define themselves on this issue, but you didn't define it, but it was scary. It's got to be arranged. I'm embarrassed. I will vote in favour, in fact, in the harmonisation amendment, I will abstain because you will be able to vote second and you will obviously support this. I will only end up supporting the law because I have no other choice and because I respect both the referendum outcome and, of course, the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u96	First, Comrade Petty Officer, behind him is Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Why did all this happen? Because the government didn't do anything. The government didn't work when it had to make the rules, the government didn't make the amendments now, but we did. What were the reasons for her doing so? It was just a maneuver on the Committee on the Economy; you can look at the magnetogram of what it was all about. The New Slovenia Group simply tabled an amendment under all the rules, respected the rules of procedure, but did not respect the rules, as you say, in this National Assembly, that it must be in addition to written form or in writing in electronic form in a materialised form in a timely manner. In electronic form, it was timely in writing, but we did not insist on it. We have taken into account other options that we can use, Mr Anderlich. Why 150 meters, it could be 280 meters, it could be. If we were to suggest, what would not be particularly against you? It's a limit. It's 280 meters from England. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u98	There's no dispute in the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u99	Why is there nothing contrary to the referendum will? Because the referendum question was not about 150 or 70 meters, but only what was said in the referendum question and the referendum question was with a limited area. Just as the referendum question was not addressed by other provisions of the proposed law. In short, things were prepared just as they needed to be. If the government did the right thing, its will and social partners would come to a reasonable solution. Now, in the final phase of the referendum, we were limited as a national assembly in possible versions of the solution. That's for sure. And there's something else I'd like to say. The Regulation, which first came to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or to the Ministry, was born in one of the major shops. Because the government was completely passive. This is also another answer, Mr Anderlich, and in the light of this we have proposed that if you had proposed a different surface, I don't know, this is not a matter of study. We will therefore support this law, and I will support it myself, but I am aware that the departure from the basic law that we have put in place in the New Slovenia Group is partly due to all these perpetuations, especially because the referendum issue has been defined differently, in accordance with the social partners and the legal and constitutional courts. It's just a fact. You may well know how it balanced itself with the question of holding a referendum. I think twice or three times it was mediated, pinched left, right, top, bottom, and eventually it came out to the public. However, we are obliged to respect the referendum will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u100	Comrade Petty Officer, colleague Anderlich, mentioned you several times. You have a chance for a replica or a discussion. What do you want? You'll wait. A replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u101	Look, Mr Petty Officer, I know what it's like when you want to turn something else. Here's the referendum question, and here's the law. And, of course, because it says in the referendum question: Are you open or open on certain days, that is, ten weeks a year with a limited area of trade? This limited area because this referendum has been drawn up and created questions on the basis of the law you have tabled. But it says 80 meters in the shelter. And why was it necessary to change the squares in the marriage? This has nothing to do with the referendum question to suggest that you should go from 80 to 150, but, on the contrary, you should stick to what you promised the electorate that if you win, you will, of course, trade the United List and you too, to limit to 80 square meters. And that's what's important. I am speaking, of course, of those who have brought this amendment to the committee and also supported it. And I don't know where is this honesty of yours to stick to the will of the people that was expressed in the referendum, but if you don't respect your own law that you tabled. Like I said, I'm not voting for an amendment because you've been calling me up with this whole assembly, but I'm going to vote for the law, unfortunately with this defect you've put on the board. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, why? Why is that?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u102	Order! Do you have a procedural proposal or question or are you just answering your question, colleague Školč? I'm just asking, procedural nature or something? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u103	Look, in my performance, I could somehow contribute to the process. However, this is certainly not possible without a person saying what he thinks about it, so it is your opinion whether you leave me with the word for the procedure, by assuming that I will trigger the replics plasma, both left and right, or rather give me the word that I can lead this discussion as a discussion of the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u104	Then I'll give you my word for discussion. My friend Kremjar now has a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you very much, President. In fact, each and every one of us is in a very significant dilemma, even the ones we were involved in this story. If we want the people's will to be applied - whether small or small, it has been in sufficient numbers to be respected - then it is simply necessary to fix everything together, because the question was impossible. If we do not correct this referendum question, then no one can know at this time what people wanted to achieve and what the referendum voted on. There's no telling what those articles are, they're already mentioned, and now we should invent what they are. You don't know what it's like with holidays, you don't know what it's like with restraints, and so on. There's nothing to know. So if it's not this supplement that's now being written, it's going to be a laugh - a laugh that's talking about the funnyness of this kind of procedure. But that doesn't help us now. If we want to do people's will, we just have to rewrite the matter now, correct it, decide what would be right, and get it into law, that it has some form, that it has some form, that it can function. After the question that - whoever created it - it's impossible for anything to work, impossible. Therefore, if we want the matter to be and to respect the will of people, it is necessary to rewrote everything completely, as this amendment does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u106	Comrade Drobnic has applied for the replica, but I will not allow it; I think there is still a chance for discussion to be done in order for this classic controversy to take place. My friend Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I applied for the floor because I protest against the statement made by fellow Member Anderlich, who said that we were forcing people to do so. Look, this is offensive for both Members and also for citizens. No one was trying to frame anyone. You, who have been a Member for so long, can know what a referendum means, that this is a constitutional category and that this is a right and these rights have been exercised and people have left for the referendum and have decided above all whether trade should be open or closed on Sunday. I'm protesting against this kind of talk that anyone's been teasing anyone. So I take this as an insult, not only for us Members, but also for those who have left. So, everyone's been saved, according to your interpretation. You're very wrong. As far as life’s essentials are concerned, I believe that this is quite well resolved in this harmonisation amendment. The Ministry is left to regulate this area on the basis of a sub-legislative act. But as for the size of the surface, yes, and here, dear colleagues, if you want to look for hair in the egg, we can propose each of our own, put it in one box and then scrape and we get it, one will propose a square metre, I heard there, and one will propose 200 or 280. Well, we can make sure of that here as much as we want. In fact, what Comrade Kremjar said is that we need to determine some area. If we do not determine it, of course, this is one of the major shortcomings of the adopted law. I propose that we adopt this harmonisation amendment and conclude this story, which was clearly decided at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u108	Replica, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u109	Mr. Sok, I could have said something that hurt you and I apologize. Besides, I think it's a whole other matter that you wanted by holding your finger to speak ill of you to blur. It's about that, Mr. Sok, that you pretend to write 80 square feet into the law, and you've given this law to a referendum. On the basis of this law, there was a referendum, and then you moved on to 150. Why is this done? I'm just wondering, is this the standard of average trade in Slovenia? Is that the standard of trade in other countries? Is this a neighborhood store that's that big? Is that a gas station? Is this a hospital store? Which store is it, and why 150? If you were asking for 80, I'm asking for 80 square meters because you asked for it because you wanted to achieve it. Believe me, I'm going to go all the way down the trail, and I'm going to support the marriage at those starting points you had at the referendum. I absolutely respect the will of people and instruments and just as it applies.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u110	Order! Comrade Jerovšek, you have no word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u111	It's always like that, but I'm asking you nicely, who here has played a game that is contrary to what you put on the referendum. But there's nothing to explain which skin it's written on now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u112	We will go in line, colleague Ašič, colleague Drobnic, colleague Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Obviously, even if the law is adopted today, it will be adopted in such a form and with such content that it is almost impractical. It will also be very difficult for the Ministry responsible for trade to draw up a regulation on what is considered as essential life items and what is not, what is the set of more than half of the items that are essential to life and what is not, because there are also substantial differences in how we value this set. Or quantitative or valuable. In fact, if we quantify this, then there must be such a trade between 100 items considered essential life-products; these are the ones that we can pick up very quickly, toilet paper, if you are in a hurry, and any such articles and these 100 articles are compared to 100 household appliances. This is a store that can have a few little bits and 100 quality items. That's quantitative. But if it's valuable, it's different. But if it's of value, then it's a different direction. And tell me how the rule book or the submarital act will be spelled out more accurately. Tell me. Mr Drobnic said that this proposal came from one of the major Slovenian trades. I think I even know the person who wrote this and had an immeasurable party when they drafted this text on a proposal from the Ministry, because the ministry didn't know how to define it either. They have found that this text is, of course, one that is possible for every complaint, and because it is unclear because it cannot be implemented, it will also be the law of such a nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u114	Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich! He's probably not in now. He's very familiar with the procedures. He knows what this referendum was like. This wasn't a confirmation referendum. If there was a confirmation referendum, the referendum would refer to the whole law. It wasn't that. Therefore, the referendum will only take place in what was the question. In this law - Mr Anderlich, I hope you will listen to me - costs six weeks and holidays. So, given your claim by analogy, we should stick to it, but we don't. Why not? Because the sovereign referendum issue has been rounded up, and this must also be kept in mind. The referendum question concerns a limited area. So this is it. We've also changed the law we tabled. We've changed the law we tabled. And now, with regard to the articles that you have so clearly pointed out. The diction for the definition of articles was not created on our celery, but on the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy. We trusted you in good faith because you are much more professional, and we confirmed that, and now you explain it to yourself. Next, the Ministry had the opportunity to define the articles earlier and also to define the criteria. Why didn't it? But he didn't know or didn't want to, he couldn't, I don't know. That's something the Ministry can decide for itself. It just didn't do it, and someone had to do it in this house. And that's what happened. In fact, at one half dose, it is now returning to the Ministry to define this with its expertise. It'll make it easier for him to have some basic definition that he put in this circle here and you'll just make it easier. Yeah, that's right. I suggest we stop discussing this. Why 150 square feet? You know, in a joke, I'll tell you, because that's how much my store is going to be, the one I'm going to have in 100 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u116	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Drobnic is not known for actually being a good joker, so that this claim can be taken as a joke. Earlier, please, Mr. Peterle. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u118	There's no dispute in the bench, mate Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u119	I very much like to listen to Mr Peterlet, if he has anything to say, he's just a man of the format, and he might encourage some more of my replicas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u120	No, you have your word, and there's no dispute in the bench, Comrade Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u121	Well, that's what I'm trying to say is that it's probably true that I'd like Mr Petty Officer for myself or for someone else to provide a space that's more than 80 square feet. But that's again an assumption that I can't prove in any way, and I'd like the National Assembly to reject that assumption. However, it can be rejected in a very simple way that it also does not accept this harmonisation amendment. Since the procedure, as it is now being carried out to coordinate something that has not been coordinated, the real area is meant to be an abuse of the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u122	Order! There's no dispute in the bench, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u123	It is not necessary to do so in the harmonisation amendment, unless the law is harmonised. As far as I know, there were problems elsewhere. However, it may also be possible to coordinate in the direction of what has been enshrined in the law and what you claim to be those who, as corporateists, have advocated this law, that people will understand precisely that it is not about opening trade on Sundays, that they will also understand that, in fact, it is the purpose of this, that these exceptions are only where very small trade is concerned. From this point of view, the matter will not be significantly complicated if the National Assembly rejects this harmonisation amendment at this time, and then brings from those authorised candidates a new harmonisation amendment that will satisfy me in that detail, which is called the area that has been enshrined in the law. That's how they're gonna fall off. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr. Petty Officer, please, I didn't happen to jump into your word myself. I know that this has not been harmonised, I know that this has been adopted on the Committee, but I know that certain things will eventually be confirmed by the National Assembly if it has reasons to confirm them. In that case, of course, he doesn't have any. They don't have any reason not to have someone to tell you what's been reported to others, if they're advocates of supermarkets and so on. And it is very good that we not only fall for the referendum outcome, that you who have brought this to us now make fun of us, not only in the sense that some basic proposal has been rejected, but that you have also managed to get through with some of the opposite things. I doubt that you are together with other corporateists, so says Nova Slovenija and the United Republic of Slovenia and the unions, able to do something on the open stage for real. But also give the other public a clear message that you are going to respect the referendum will, and give a harmonisation amendment that will remove any doubt that there is another chain behind these things. I'll vote against it myself. That's why I'm not gonna ask for a new confirmation or I don't know what referendum if this doesn't work out. However, I think that because of your principle, your knocking on honesty, the knocking on the rights of employees, the knock on people's having other jobs on Sundays, it would be very wise to limit this supply to the minimum that you've promoted all the time, and this will cause great problems to the good work of Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u124	He's a friend of Diaci's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. I will abstain from this amendment. I will abstain because I know what the referendum will be like. However, this amendment is one of those amendments that can be classified as pearls of this national assembly. The fourth paragraph is: "Sales for emergency life items referred to in the preceding paragraph are shops which have more than half of the articles belonging to essential life articles in their set." So you can have a store where you sell bread, milk and water, and you sell refrigerators and color TVs, like. Next definition, definition of emergency life products. The essential articles of life, as provided for in the preceding paragraph, are articles that consumers purchase frequently, usually daily, without special consideration and in which they do not spend much time shopping. I mean, this is the funniest thing I've ever heard, because I suggest those who have written this amendment to give their partner a credit card with no limit and send it to the store and to limit time and see what they bring home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u126	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I think there's some ruse in this room. The purpose of the previous legislative referendum is, and we have already heard this today, that the legislator, on the basis of the expressed will of the people, properly regulates the legal dictatorship. This is not a subsequent legislative referendum, where "de facto" is only a confirmed law, but here is the role of the legislator that, in certain contexts, on the basis of that referendum question, he may also draw up a legislative text. The second question is 80 or 150. We all know here that the diction of 150 square meters is better, more acceptable and more lifelike. And those who say at this point why 150, why not 80, want nothing to be resolved about this issue and that this issue remains unresolved. I think it's a little bit of a delusion. And thirdly, Mr Školč, in the law on the implementation of the budget, the government also came with a harmonisation amendment, which was absolutely nothing to do with the matter of harmonisation, but was adopted by this majority in the national assembly at that time. If we are consistent, then, of course, it will be necessary to stick to this harmonisation amendment in this case, and to say that, after these exceptional cases, we can also arrange something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u128	I'll give my word to my colleagues, Mr. Potch, Mr. Sok and Mr. Jelinčič. My friend Potts has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We all know that, or that we must decide on the harmonisation amendment primarily because the first decisions taken by the Committee were linked to the law in force, which is impossible in the process of adopting the law. We had to tie the third and other paragraphs that we are now changing to the law that was in the process, and because this did not happen, we had to change things with the harmonisation amendment. I even proposed a second procedure at the college, I do not object at all that it was not accepted, but the fact is that there was a lot of debate on the squarework on the committee and that the committee was square, as it was, accepted. And the fact is that the Committee has bound this square and the other paragraphs to the law already in force and published in the Official Gazette, which it cannot do and should bind to the first and second paragraphs of the law in the procedure. And that's why we have to make things right. All the other debate can be justified, only not about the harmonisation amendment, but it is about our question of greater or less satisfaction with the way we deal with this issue. If the harmonisation amendment is not adopted in the content that binds changes to the law in the procedure, then I think that the law enforcement service can say so, we cannot adopt such a law because it is contrary to the meaning of the whole legislative procedure. So that, whether now or later, if not accepted there, the mother labour body of the new harmonisation amendment in this content will certainly be adopted. In this case, will the mother’s working body repeat the discussion on the surface? Perhaps, after the amended debate, it will be possible to make a second decision, but only the surface has been discussed by the working body and so decided. I'm not saying right or wrong, that's how it's decided. And that's why the harmonisation amendment for me is a more formal correction of the fact that just happened in the process. I'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u130	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u131	I deeply agree with you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u132	You'll get it after your colleague Sok. I already gave him my word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u133	and that I myself wanted to propose that the legislative service should tell what kind of law it would be if we did not adopt this harmonisation amendment. [[...]] Perhaps then these discussions would be unnecessary. As for your concerns, that's all I'd say. Mate Diaca, on 150 square meters, of course, it is not possible to sell emergency life items and at the same time cars and refrigeration boxes. So afraid you're not. We all know that 150 square meters is better and a more reasonable solution than 80 square meters, and I think, of course, that here in all these debates is just one form of stallion. And in the end, we'll have to decide, because at the referendum, people told their names. I would really suggest that the legislative service explain whether it is necessary or what law will be required if we do not adopt this harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u134	That's what we're gonna ask the chief of staff. First of all, my friend Wolf has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u135	I have a more procedural question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u136	You're a writer, Comrade Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u137	President, thank you for your word. Of course, I wouldn't interfere with the content of this part. Of course, I would ask Parliament's professional service whether the amendment is properly tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Why? A group of Members with the first signed mag. Janez Drobník submitted a proposal for a law and also an amendment. On the other hand, it's just a mag. Janez Petty Officer. I think that the practice was previously such that, as far as it was a group of Members with a first-signed one, then the amendments should be made by all those who wrote it, unless it has a mag. John Petty Officer has written in his possession and I ask him to hand them over to the service so that we can see if he had the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u138	Please, Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u139	As you can see from the head of the amendment, this amendment was tabled by a group of MPs, the drafters of the law, the first-signed mag. Janez Drobnič, who is then signed for a group of Members under this harmonisation amendment. So from this point of view, we believe that this should not be a problem, given that he is, in fact, a kind of representative of a group of lawmakers of the law, if this is the issue you wanted to clarify.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u140	Please, Comrade Anderlich. I will also give my word to my colleague, Školč, if this is the case, because we will first clear this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u141	I object because I've collected many signatures for various amendments. When it came to a group of Members, you have always directed us to collect all the signatures, and this time you have done otherwise. If you let this go through the procedure, I wonder why.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u142	We'll clear this matter up first before we decide. My colleague School now has a word, and this procedural question, not about other things. Please, is that it or not? If not, mate Wolf. You're written right after, but now we're going to clear this up. Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u143	Of course, I respect the opinion of the legislative and legal service, but I believe that even when we have collected signatures several times when we have tabled amendments, and here I agree with my colleague Anderlich. But if that is the case now, of course you will judge it, Presidents, but we will have a new practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u144	First, we'll clear things up so they'll be clear. One option is to stop the point and move on with the rest of us so that the legal and regulatory services can reconsider and then come back to this issue. He certainly needs a clear answer from the National Assembly. Excuse me? No, no. You know what I'm asking. [[...]] I will end this debate and we will move on with the other points. At this time, I'm asking the Head of the Legal and Legislative Service to be pure. If the national assembly does not accept one of the harmonisation amendments, the matter shall return to the competent working body, to the Committee on the Economy. That's clear. Please let us first clear this with our signatures so that it will be clear for all time what the rule is. No offense if we're here very much. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] No, no. I'm putting an end to this discussion. We'll continue today as soon as we finish the final point. Until then, please clear this matter up or we won't make it to the end today. We now have the 4th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the trade law. On Tuesday 27 January 2004, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third consideration of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We are now talking about a proposal on which no amendments have been tabled. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Would any of the Messengers and Members like to know? [[Not at all.]] This concludes the debate on the bill as a whole. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent, so we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We are voting on the bill as a whole. No, we're not going to make a decision because it's too messy. Please, we're in procedure. Order, please! We're voting. We are voting on the law as a whole. The law has been passed. 62 present, 57 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against three.]] Okay, that concludes this point. Thank you very much, Minister. We have a third reading of the bill under point 5 on the protection of house buyers and one-bedroom buildings. We had a second hearing on this on Tuesday 27 January. Amendments have not been tabled in the supplementary proposal and we are moving on to a legislative decision. No legislative and legal service, no government, has warned me that the text would be uncoordinated so that we can go to the vote. We're voting. We are voting on the law on the protection of house buyers and one-bedroom buildings. The law has been passed. 61 present, 50 for and none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted, the point is closed. We have the sixth and third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on administrative fees. On Tuesday 27 January, the National Assembly held a second hearing. No amendments were tabled to the supplementary proposal. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that I am not informed that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent and that we can proceed to a decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on administrative fees. 56 present, 43 for and 1 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. We have item 7 of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income. On Tuesday, 27.01.2004, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, it was not possible to table amendments. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 65 present, 24, 41 versus. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Free 41.]] The law is not adopted. This concludes this item on the agenda, and we are now returning to the Trade Act. Five minutes of rest. As soon as I clear things up from a procedural point of view, we'll proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u145	Look, first of all, I'd like to say what my proposal is, which will be decided by the National Assembly. My proposal is to end this item of the agenda so that the Economic Committee prepares a harmonisation amendment on the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to the assembly that we finish this point at one of the next meetings, which may already be held on Monday. So that the committee can have Monday, that's my proposal. [[...]] This proposal will be further voted on by the National Assembly. Please, Comrade Petty Officer. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u146	This is a proposal for a regular decision, this is not procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u147	Please, you have the floor to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u148	Therefore, our Group of Members will not support this proposal. This means, in fact, another delay in the exercise of the referendum will, and this is not the appropriate way, so we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u149	Look, I think it is right for us to give the committee the opportunity to draft the law in such a way that it is business-oriented and that the will of the people adopted at the referendum will be implemented. This is our duty, so I propose this proposal for a decision. Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think that, according to the rules of procedure, you interpret the work of the National Assembly and the understanding of these procedural strange options. That's why I expect you to decide without giving it to the National Assembly, that it's up to us to decide here. For, as has been said today, I think that Mrs Vice-President said that she or yesterday, that she interprets and that she no longer votes on these decisions in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u151	We need to be careful, Comrade Jelinčich. Please, please, please, please, please, This is Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, on which I must put the assembly to the vote of postponements, and I also put it to the vote. Please, we're voting. Let's please, this is a law that enforces the referendum will of the people and the committee to prepare the matter so that the National Assembly can decide. 64 present, 36 for and 24 vs. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] The Committee on the Economy will prepare the harmonisation amendments and decide at the next meeting. Thank you.
