ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear President of the Republic, Dr. Janez Drnovšek! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Honorable President and members of the government! Respectable former President of the Republic, esteemed high representatives of political, social and religious life! Respectable diplomatic assembly and all other high-ranking guests! Today we continue the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving on to 15. The Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Kingdom of Lithuania, the Kingdom of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Republic of Lithuania We are ahead of the final act of the Slovenian Parliament, which, together with other decisions, will put the Republic of Slovenia in the middle of the United Europe, this will be a peak in the "i" extremely difficult process, which started with Slovenian independence, which is why today's working session is especially celebrated. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I ask the Prime Minister, Master Anton Rope, to inform the National Assembly of the Government's position on this ratification. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u2	Dear President! President of the National Assembly! Dear Members and Members of Parliament! Dear High Choir! On 23 March 2003, at a referendum on Slovenia's membership in the European Union, nearly 90% of Slovenian voters and voters decided that our country's future is in the European Union. With this we Slovenian citizens have confirmed the correctness of choosing the political objectives of the integration of the Slovenian country, which were defined a few years ago when the declaration of an independent and independent state was declared. We have confirmed the success of hard work in the negotiations to achieve a defined objective and, above all, a commitment to the European idea. With this act, we have been given a mandate to sign the Treaty of Accession of our country to the European Union three weeks later, on 16 April 2003. With the conclusion of the Treaty in Athens, 58 years after the end of World War II and 14 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the last formal step towards the historic enlargement of the European Union was taken. On 9 May 1950, French Foreign Minister Robert Schumann correctly announced in his declaration that Europe would not be made at once and not on a single plan. Some more than 40 years later, with the entry into force of the Treaty, Europe is approaching its external geographical limits for the application of a broad European area of freedom, security, democracy and democratic values, the market economy, the rule of law and the rule of law, and is becoming the world's largest area of close political, economic cooperation and integration processes. Old friends who are at the same time new partners, as the current Presidency of the European Union of the Republic of Ireland, will be reunited when the treaty is ratified in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to raise with you a few key dates on the Slovenian road between our European friends, a path on which we can rightly be proud. Prior to the 13th year of the 25th Union 1991, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia solemnly stated in a declaration on independence that Slovenia, as an international legal entity, wants to be fully involved in the European Community and other links of countries, in accordance with the principles of the integration of sovereign countries in Europe. We did not win ourselves to live in an isolated world today, but we wanted to follow the rapid and modern trends of European integration and share prosperity and common destiny with other European countries and nations. Slovenia has therefore already presented at its birth a firm determination and a desire to embark on a difficult path of coexistence and integration and convergence. We can proudly say that the European idea of integration is at the very heart of our independence. As early as June 1993, the Copenhagen European Council decided that the Associated Countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which would decide to do so, could become members of the Union as soon as they were able to meet economic and political criteria. The formal start of cooperation between Slovenia and the European Union began essentially with the ratification of the agreement between Slovenia and the European Economic Community in July 1993. This Agreement already provided for the next stage of cooperation, which took place on 10 June 1996 with the signature of the European Association Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Communities and their Member States operating within the European Union, with the attached Final Act. On the same day, Slovenia also applied for Union membership. The European Agreement was ratified by the Slovenian Parliament on 15 July 1997. The Luxembourg European Council took a decision on a single enlargement process for 10 Central and Eastern European countries and Cyprus, at the same time setting off a green light for the start of negotiations with the so-called Luxembourg Group, which also included Slovenia. Thus, an intergovernmental conference on Slovenia's accession to the European Union was launched in Brussels in March 1998, which also included the process of accession negotiations. In 2000, a Treaty was adopted from Nice, allowing for the enlargement of the Union by means of institutional changes. In December 2001, the Laeken Council numbered ten candidate countries that could complete the negotiations by 2002. Our country was among them and the negotiations with the other nine accessions ended in December 2002 in Copenhagen. The European Parliament gave its consent to the accession treaty in April 2003. On the other hand, the Council of the Union unanimously adopted a decision in the same month on the admission of ten acceding countries to the European Union. In early November 2003, the European Commission presented the latest report on the readiness of the acceding countries to join the Union. The report estimates that Slovenia is most prepared among all candidates for entry. This is the result of the efforts made by all ministries of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the National Assembly. We have very much aligned our legal order with the legal order of the community and we are able to assume the obligations of membership in the Union. As a result, we can also trust the rights that full membership holds. We can say that Slovenia has been a tough but successful negotiator for 5 years. In particular, I would like to point out that she was also the only candidate to have confirmed her negotiating points in the competent parliamentary body. Such an approach has been taken by the Slovenian Parliament, not against itself, but through the full process of negotiations, so this is also how you win, my fellow Members and Members. The result of the joint efforts is a contract signed in Athens. Today, this Treaty is before you, honourable Members and Members, to confirm your historic role with its verification. Dear High Council! The text of the contract and its components is an extremely extensive material, covering more than 4,800 pages in one language version, and the contract is drawn up in 21 languages. Dozens of lawyers from the member states of accession, the Commission and the Council have been preparing them for more than a year. To prepare it, we have exchanged more than 2,000 official documents and messages with European partners, and there have been many more informal ones. The Accession Treaty itself contains only three articles setting out the accession of the new Members, the conditions and deadlines for its entry into force and the provision on the language composition of the Treaty. The Act of Accession, which forms an integral part of the Treaty, lays down all the conditions of accession and the adaptation of the European Community's primary and secondary legislation. It also lays down the measures of the institutions, which are particularly necessary before accession, as well as changes in the composition of the institutions and changes in their decision-making procedures. The most extensive part of the accession acts covers 18 Annexes to the Act of Accession, around 4650 pages showing all technical adjustments and agreed exceptions and transitional periods. All of this is stated for each country individually. In this respect, Annex 13 covers agreed transitional periods and exemptions for Slovenia. In the areas of free movement of goods, free movement of labour, freedom to provide services, free movement of capital with the possibility of using the general protection clause for the purchase of property in Slovenia, agriculture, taxation, social policy and employment, energy and the environment. The protocols that regulate agreements on matters that otherwise do not have a basis in any of the original contracts are also an integral part of the Treaty. By signing the Final Document, the States Parties confirmed the documents adopted during the Accession Conference and Slovenia also submitted three unilateral declarations or declarations on the future regional development of Slovenia, the Kranska bee and the development of the trans-European transport network in Slovenia. On our initiative, however, several other statements have been made, in which Slovenia has joined other countries. For example, a statement by Slovenia and Hungary. 23 on a transitional period for maintaining the minimum VAT rate for the preparation of meals, declaration of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland and Slovenia on a special safeguard clause. Your Honor! Ratification of the Treaty and its entry into force are the successful completion of one of the most ambitious and challenging tasks that Slovenia has already set itself at the very beginning of its independent existence and development. If the majority of Slovenian political parties and forces did not perceive the will and wishes of citizens and on this basis achieve unity on full membership in the European Union, it would be difficult to succeed. It was true that unity was the one that enabled high efficiency in the negotiations and the achievement of this historic moment. During difficult years of negotiations, it has been confirmed that Slovenia is never small when it is uniform. This is a teaching for the future, achieving unity is always beneficial, beneficial to people and beneficial to the community. By entering the Union and the convergence processes, we have actually accelerated the achievement of our own reform objectives. By means of the accession process, we have accelerated social processes, as well as economic transitions, and quickly removed the obstacles to urgent change.With the integration of transition and accession processes and reforms, we have created the necessary order and stability in the economy and society as a whole. The effects of the process of entry into the Union can also be attributed to the improved competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, whose further increase remains one of our priorities. In the process of adapting the legal order of the community, Slovenia has undoubtedly gained a lot. We have done this quickly and effectively because in the last six years we have adopted European standards that have been built by members for more than 50 years. We have used their experience in processes of faster reform and modernisation of the economy and state administration. It's 93 days before we get in. The entrance is not the end of the road, but a new beginning. We are entering the area of high social and economic competition. It will depend on ourselves how successful we will be in the Union as a nation and as individuals. Undoubtedly, good cooperation between the government and the national assembly will be very important to achieve our objectives under full membership conditions. We will continue to have to act quickly and in harmony with the constant thought of the interests of citizens and the well-being of the community. In doing so, we must not forget why we have embarked on the path of membership in the Union. It is true that successful entry into the European Union is a major and important success, but it has always been before us the awareness that the Union is primarily an opportunity to take further advantage of our potentials, in which I firmly believe. I am convinced that we can establish ourselves in a large family of European nations, where more than the size of the country and the number of inhabitants will count as a good idea, a successful recognition of the right opportunities, innovation, knowledge and, finally, an interlinking position between the Union and the world beyond its borders. By entering the Union, we will be able to move unhindered in the entire community, the goods will circulate freely, capital will look for the best conditions, customs will be abolished. But let prosperity travel along with the goods; let rights, knowledge, and why not dream also circulate in addition to capital without borders. Our citizens will be offered new opportunities for education, cultural and scientific cooperation. By making effective use of all these options and opportunities, we will be able to respond more easily and better to the challenges of globalisation and allow citizens and citizens to have a higher degree of prosperity and social security. Slovenians can be confident. As we have been working with the Union, in the course of accession negotiations and in the framework of the European Convention, we have unfortunately proved, unfortunately, that we can apply ourselves equally in the context of a successful intergovernmental conference on the Treaty on European Union. We are also active in the preparation of the new financial perspective of the Union. We don't just want to benefit ourselves, we want to contribute to the well-being of the Union, its peoples and its inhabitants, we want to strengthen the role of the Union in the world. We have a rich cultural and natural heritage and identity, which we will also carefully protect in a community with 450 million inhabitants. We will also have to enforce our position in the cultural and transport links network accordingly. I believe that with the cooperation of all citizens and citizens we will be able to make use of this capital. Active, free-thinking citizens who, at the time of their entry into the Union, will recognize their objectives and will be able to implement them are the country's largest capital. To this, the great Union offers great opportunities, as it offers our economy and its growth. In order for our country, society and economy to enter the Union with as few shocks as possible and adequately prepared for increased competitiveness, the government has prepared a programme to effectively enter the European Union through measures in the field of economy, education, regional development, health reforms, completed public sector reforms, the implementation of the rule of law, foreign policy and cultural identity. The government is also implementing the necessary measures to reduce inflation. Entry into ERM2 this year and into the euro area by the end of 2007. That is why we are optimistic about the month of May and all future springs of the European Community. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the esteemed High Council! Today is a historic day, today we live the future. You have before you the approval of the Treaty, which will bring our country, Slovenian nation and all our citizens and citizens to one of the world's most developed communities. We are looking forward to a society of great opportunities and opportunities, but also serious social responsibilities. We know that Slovenia has been working towards this since the first day of its dreams of independence. And I believe that your actions today will confirm this great historic victory of the Slovenians and the Slovenes. Happy Slovenia, today we are in Europe! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. I now invite you to speak for the Foreign Minister, Dr. Dimitri Ruple.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u4	Dear Mr. President of the Republic! Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, High Council, colleagues and colleagues, friends! Membership in the European Union is, by general belief, an important Slovenian achievement. Fewer people are aware that Slovenia has been an important European achievement since the date of creation. The reason for this difference is in oblivion. Many have forgotten that the European Union has taken decisive action in the Briony on 7 July 1991. The Slovenian delegation, composed of France Bučar, Janez Drnovšek, Milan Kučan, Loize Peterle and I, was negotiating with the European Union for the first time or three of its foreign ministers. This was the Dutchman Hans van den Brook, Luxembourg's Jacques Poos and Portugal's Joao Despineira and reached the first international agreement, the so-called Brionic Declaration. This was the beginning of the European route of Slovenia. The road continued on 16 December 1991 in Brussels, where the Council of Ministers only a few days after the end of the Intergovernmental Conference and after the Maastricht Summit on 9 and 10 December adopted a decision on the recognition of Slovenia as an independent and independent country, which then formally took place on 15 January 1992. Slovenia was the first and long-standing European achievement in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. In 1994, there was a stalemate due to known requirements regarding the right of foreigners to purchase real estate. The European Association Agreement was signed only after the so-called Spanish compromise on 10 June 1996. In order to compensate for the delay, Slovenia applied for full membership in the European Union on the same day and Slovenia became an associate member of the European Union on 1 February 1999. Together with Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary and Poland, Slovenia began to negotiate for membership in spring 1998. Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Slovakia and Romania joined these countries in February 2000. The negotiations of the Republic of Slovenia for membership in the European Union took place from March 1998 to December 2002. I joined these negotiations in 2000 as chief negotiator and with the assistance of a narrower negotiating group or government service for European affairs. The outcome of these negotiations is the accession treaty we signed in Athens on 16 April 2003. Today, after 12 and a half years of Europeanisation, Slovenia is ready for a final act, this is for parliamentary ratification. At this time, you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, are in the hands of a steering wheel to guide this Slovenian boat to the European port. The division of Europe after World War II has not been natural, it has been too long, the enlargement of the European Union brings together a Europe in which all countries with common values, such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, human rights, have the same opportunities to develop. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, the European Union is expanding, and it must amend some of the rules that have already been negotiated in the Convention and in the intergovernmental conference to work under new conditions. As we saw last December in Brussels, nothing is self-evident. Once again, there are concerns about division, Slovenia has since begun to trust the European Union, which owes it a large part of its success. There is no reason for us not to trust the European Union and not to seek in the future the success of the intergovernmental conference and the adoption of a new constitutional treaty, but today there is an accession treaty that relates to and contains all the Treaty we have so far. The Accession Treaty is uniform for all the new Member States and is extremely short. There's a preamble, and there's three articles. There is also an Act of Accession, which specifically defines the results of negotiations for each new Member State, namely adaptations to the European legal order, transitional periods, exceptions, technical adjustments and other measures taken by the State in the negotiation process. The accession documents include a final act in which the signatories to the accession treaty formally endorsed the documents adopted in the framework of the accession conferences. This Charter states: the Accession Treaty, the Acts of Accession and the founding Treaties in the languages of the new Member States. Along with the Act of Accession, the Treaty has more than 4,200 pages. I would like to point out that the accession treaty is more than just a mere international treaty. It is not only the relations between individual signatories on the basis of reciprocity that governs our participation in supranational institutions, the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Court of Justice of the European Communities. In Slovenia, we have therefore adopted the relevant constitutional changes in last year and thus removed the constitutional barriers to entry into the Union. In the European Union, however, we have sought to strike a balance between the institutions of international or inter-state and supra-national or supra-national importance. On the one hand, countries, especially those that are the largest and richest, will still protect and exercise their national interests. On the other hand, the common supra-national institutions will protect, we hope, the interests of the small. In today's global world, no European country and, in fact, no country is completely independent and self-sufficient, but they are all interconnected and interdependent. For Slovenia, integration with others and activity in the common European institutions are particularly important. It is a simple realization that we will most easily pursue our national interests together with others. We will work in conjunction with those closest to us, and we will not forget our common interests and the progress of European integration. With the ratification of the Accession Treaty today, Slovenia joins the Group of Member States of France, Germany, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Spain, Great Britain, Austria, Belgium and the acceding countries Slovakia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Malta, Lithuania, Poland, Latvia, Hungary, which have already ratified the Accession Treaty. Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Estonia are expected to ratify the Accession Treaty in a short time. Following successful ratification, each of the 25 countries must submit the instrument of ratification to the depositary, the Government of the Italian Republic, by 30 April 2004 at the latest. This will allow the Treaty to enter into force on 1 May 2004, thus fulfilling all legal obligations for the successful implementation of enlargement. Ladies and gentlemen! The Accession Treaty connects the European continent into a single and at the same time diverse community. We are linked by common values, interests and goals. But we are linked, which is the European paradox, in fact the paradoxical essence of the European Union, including differences. The entry of new members will, for example, increase cultural and linguistic diversity in the Union. The integration of Slovenia into the European Union means the continuation of the development of Slovenian statehood. Together with other nations and countries, Slovenia will be an important and influential factor in the international political, economic and cultural scene. I propose that you, honourable Members of the National Assembly, attach the European guidelines to Slovenia and adopt an accession treaty. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Foreign Minister. I now invite Dr. Janez Potočnik, Minister for European Affairs, to speak. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u6	Mr President of the State, President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, distinguished guests, honourable Members and Members, all present! Slovenia is part of Europe and Slovenians are Europeans. We are bound by common roots and values with Europe. Entry into the European Union is therefore a logical, somehow natural step in the ripening of our young country. The purpose of co-existence in the Union is in the roots of its origin, in its efforts to overcome the woes that marked Europe of the previous century. Current enlargement can contribute more than ever to strengthening Europe's prosperity, stability, security and peace. The "accession to the European Union" project has been completed. It has been spoken and written about in recent years in small and large words, sometimes heavy and sometimes untrue again weighty and justified. There were many words spoken. There were also great and small offenses, perhaps jealousy, big and small support, opposition, much, much work, good and less good, some seeking faults, others deserving. Let's not deal with the past. For the contract that brought us together this morning, and for all that is hidden in it, we are all due, everyone. Also in our public have never seen colleagues, experts and citizens, all of whom we have worked with. I am convinced that the project of membership that begins in history is able to write as a success story. None of us expect pleasure, but they expect serious and good work. The size and strength of the country will be determined and determined by our own knowledge, with our understanding, will and, above all, maturity. Dear Members and Members! Here and now is our common future. If I were you, I would vote in favour of ratifying the Treaty of Accession of Peace of Conscience and Light Hand. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u7	The report you have on the bench states, inter alia, that no parliament among the other nine candidates has been as directly, precisely and comprehensively monitoring the treatment, complementing, coordinating and directing the work of the negotiators, as we have always done and not only when necessary for the success of the negotiating process. Today, the president of the Foreign Policy Committee and the President of the European Affairs Commission, the two bodies with the greatest weight, will also address the opening remarks. First of all, the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, Comrade Jelko Kacin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u8	Madam President, Madam Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests and the general public! At its 75th regular meeting, held on 14 January 2004, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Accession Treaty. In its opening remarks, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy presented the content of the work of the Committee on Foreign Policy, other working bodies of the National Assembly, parliamentary parties to the National Assembly, other branches of government, civil society and Slovenia in full integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. He stressed that, in our particular case, it was undoubtedly a national project and a national success that deserves respect, pride and even a few praises. Otherwise, who will praise us and who will respect our work if we do not respect it and appreciate it first ourselves? Today's treatment is the last event in the long run of our country's independence and European placement. At the same time, the end of the road will be the beginning of our European practice. With our decision, report and recommendation, the National Assembly will be able to complete this phase of this project launched in the previous century. It will only take 14 years for Slovenia to enter the European Union from the first democratic elections to our full membership and in the meantime there has been no enlargement of the European Union to new democracies in Central and Eastern Europe. We took advantage of the first opportunity and took advantage of it in perfection and with excellence. During this time, the child is born and graduated from primary school. We finished this school with the honors. We must truly rejoice in this fact and be able to stress it and to spread with pride and enthusiasm among people, both at home and abroad. The comparison with our independence is in place, because, at the time of both independence and integration, the project of coordination at the government level was set up and coordinated by one and the same person, Minister Igor Bavčar. On both occasions, our then governments have learned the importance, depth, breadth and scope of processes and challenges on the way to the final goal and have also properly organised and responded. The Chairman of the Committee strongly stressed that no parliament among the other nine candidates has been so directly, precisely, and so thoroughly monitoring, approving, supplementing, coordinating and focusing on the work of negotiators as we have done, always and not only when necessary for the success of the negotiating process. No Parliament has debated as much and as often as our committee, which has allowed or created preconditions for the timely and successful work of the main negotiator and the narrower negotiating group. With our help, negotiators have made it easier and harder to accept the requirements and conditions of the European Commission. He felt that the process of bringing Slovenia closer and integration into the European Union meant four words: compromise, trust, cooperation and transparency, or transparency. It is not only a Spanish compromise, but it has also been incorporated into an agreement on cooperation in the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia signed by the Presidents of Parliament and Members of the National Communities. Unity in realizing that no party can play with the European Union integration project was the key to success and ensured the necessary confidence. Cooperation shall mark cooperation between the Government and Parliament and cooperation between the two with civil society. Transparency and transparency of the work enabled the broad confidence of the local public in the integration process and the European Union, which was formally confirmed by the outcome of the referendum on 23 March 2003. In doing so, he highlighted the comparison with other candidate countries, where this process is not always and is not yet running so productively, and especially not so smoothly. The Chairman of the Committee highlighted the important role of the Slovenian economy, which had its representative, the Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, also in the composition of the negotiating group and the high support for integration into the European Union throughout the management structure. The President stressed that the key and politically sensitive issue of the negotiations on the fourth chapter was the free movement of capital, on the principle of non-discriminatory property rights of foreigners incorporated in Article 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with Slovenia immediately receiving support from both the UK and the Netherlands, two influential members of the European Union, who also today strongly advocate the principle of respect for the fundamental values of the Union. Respect for fundamental human rights has been and remains the driving force behind the current and future European Union. The technical part of the negotiations was removed from the political work, and both parts complemented and nominated each other. Now is the time for understanding the philosophy and functioning of the European space. For the European Union is not a matter of diplomacy, but of cooperation, cooperation, mutual understanding, trust and complementarity between the administrations of the sovereign Member States of the European Union. However, diplomacy certainly has an important role to play, particularly in the field of external relations, relations with non-members, in our case in particular with the countries of South-Eastern Europe, with the administrations of the Member States, and in particular our government and parliamentary administration with the historic task of transferring knowledge and training to the administrations of the countries of South-Eastern Europe for understanding the European Union and for cooperation. The Committee on Foreign Policy did not consider the initiative to negotiate and conclude an accession treaty as a whole, but rather as 57 partial initiatives or their amendments and additions in a total of 31 areas. At its first extraordinary meeting on 8 September 1998, the then International Relations Committee first considered a partial initiative to negotiate and conclude an international treaty on the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, the so-called negotiating venues. The Committee on International Relations or in this mandate of the Committee on Foreign Policy has considered partial initiatives, additions to partial initiatives, amendments and additional clarifications at 25 regular, extraordinary and correspondence meetings. The last amendment or addition to the partial tax initiative was considered at the 59th meeting of the Committee on 17.09.2002. The conclusion of a period is certainly the 42nd urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy on 12 December 2002, when the Committee considered the report on the arrangements adopted in the framework of the accession negotiations with the European Union and the establishment of a mandate for the conclusion of the Copenhagen summit negotiations and endorsed them. The Committee also regularly reviewed the report on the progress made by the Republic of Slovenia in the integration into the European Union and took note every time of the priorities of the Presidency of individual countries to the European Union presented by the ambassadors of these countries to the members of the Committee in Slovenia. In autumn 2003, the Committee's attention was focused on the work of the intergovernmental conference. Thus, the Committee considered the starting points for the participation of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at an intergovernmental conference and for more information on the progress of the conference. At the same time, the Committee has repeatedly called on government representatives to advocate at an intergovernmental conference respect for the principle of equality and the application of the principle that each member of his/her Commissioner has the voting right to maintain the minimum threshold so far for the number of members of each country in the European Parliament in order to ensure equal access for all Member States to the Presidency of the Council, with the exception of the Foreign Affairs Council, which should be chaired by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the European Union. Finally, the Chairman of the Committee stressed that it was the most important ratification of this mandate and this century. Many have also contributed significantly to its implementation, which are now or have never been fully at the forefront and among them by the name of Rada Genorio, Cveto Stantic, Marija Adanja, Marjet Jager, Andrej Jerin and many others, and not least Tanja Pandev and Saša Kragelj, who have been with them all this time on the Committee on International Relations and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mr Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, presented the substantive elements of the Accession Treaty, signed on 16 April 2003 by the members of the European Union and ten accessions. The Treaty resulting from the multi-annual accession negotiations governs the integration of new members into the European Union and the manner and conditions of accession. He said that so far the accession treaty has ratified 8 Member States of the European Union and seven acceding countries. The other Member States of the European Union and the acceding countries must ratify the Treaty in the coming months and submit the instrument of ratification to the depositary by 30 April 2004. This will enable the Treaty to enter into force on 1 May 2004. In the debate, Members drew attention to the role and importance of the efforts and contributions of individuals and institutions to the success of this project, namely Dr. Janez Potočnik, Dr. Emil Erjavac, Dr. Jožet Pučnik, Igor Senčar, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Dr. Slavko Gabra and Roman Jakič, the entire negotiating group of the opposition, interested bodies, professional colleagues and colleagues, both governments and parliament, representatives of the social partners, the media and in particular the joint parliamentary committee. They highlighted the importance of Slovenian national interest, the ability of tectonic thinking and the formulation of national policy objectives, highlighted the same percentage of support on the plebiscite to establish a independent Slovenian state and the referendum for accession to the European Union. In view of the transition periods achieved, to the constructive opposition in the field of foreign policy, to the challenges of the final application of Slovenia within the European Union, which require proof of our capacity in practice, to the best of our citizens and other peoples' knowledge of the Union, to the vital importance of the Constitutional Treaty, to the new financial perspectives and to the importance of the important role of the National Assembly, which it will also maintain in the future, despite individual claims which seek to minimise the future role and importance of the National Assembly. They drew attention to the joint contributions of the Government of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia, Slovenia's entry into the ERM2 and its acquisition of the euro and its ambition to rank Slovenia among the most developed countries of the European Union in some acceptable period, to abandon police control at the western borders and to establish the Schengen [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] at the external border of the European Union, and the fear of Slovenia’s existence at two speeds in its internal development. [[...]] As a success, they also highlighted the protection of the cricket, and in the end, they pointed to the correction of injustices, such as those and others, on the understanding that we had done too little in this area. After two hours, the President concluded the debate and reiterated that this point had never been and there was no ratification, such as many other ratifications. This is certainly the most important ratification of this mandate and this century. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has explained that it is not considering initiating a procedure for the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the Western European Union. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect, had no comments. After the discussion, the Committee adopted all the articles of the bill with 15 votes in favour and none against. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal be dealt with in the text submitted to the National Assembly for legislative procedure and adopted. The rapporteur at the meeting of the National Assembly will be the chairman of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. I now invite my colleague Peterlet, President of the European Affairs Commission, to the floor. And while Comrade Peterle is coming to the speaker stage, among all the distinguished guests who are at the gallery today, I also particularly welcome the high delegation of Canada, who joined the others at the gallery. Hello, welcome! [[Let's hear it.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u10	Dear Mr. President! Honourable Presidents of the Republic, the Government and the Council of State, the highest representatives of the judiciary and the Slovenian army, distinguished eminent representatives of Slovenian churches, representatives of all three Slovenias, Excellency, distinguished guests from Canada! Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Twelve years ago, we achieved international recognition of the independent and democratic Slovenia. Since then, we can also conclude international treaties as a body governed by international law and become involved in international organisations and relations. Let us remember that, with regard to the recognition of Slovenia, opinions were initially shared within the European Community at the time. It was not enough to carry out our independence in a consistent democratic and constitutional manner and to win a war against the enemy with surviving concepts and purposes. We had to prove that we really want to live out the values and principles of a free and democratic world. With this, we had no problem because the new democratic-Slovenian authorities, along the lines of the legislative, executive and other authorities before the world, have legitimized their will and actions in terms of the break with the totalitarian order in Yugoslavia and with it in Slovenia, until 1990. Belonging to the values and principles that have been the starting point for the peaceful, democratic and successful development of the European Union since World War II, we have demonstrated everything ever since. In all the compositions of the governments, the National Assembly and the State Council. Our decision to join the European Union is rooted in values and principles, not in pragmatic speculation or lack of other alternatives. Life is also outside the European Union. However, we have decided to join in the most successful political and peace project known to the world so far, because we are confident that in this context we will be able to achieve the best goals of the Slovenian country, the Slovenian people and the Slovenian society. If anyone, then it is the Slovenians who know what it means to try historical lines of separation, with an iron curtain worth, imperial, large-state and ideological or violent attempts of European integration. After all these experiences and after the survival of the three totalitarianisms, we take as a smile of history the fact that we can, as a sovereign entity voluntarily with other peoples and countries in the European Union, participate in the building of a lasting peaceful and cooperative Europe, which is not an issue of identity, but one that is rich and inspiring. Today, when we decide to ratify the accession treaty for the last formal step on Slovenia's path into the European Union, we are doing so in the consciousness of adopting the legal and institutional order that the European Union has developed in the decades of its development and we are joining in this regard, while at the same time all other members of the Union join together for what is yet to happen in this regard. On 1 May 2004, the historic enlargement of the European Union will take place, followed by decades of European integration. Enlargement makes sense if we aim with it to truly unite Europe as a guarantor of European cooperation and an influential player of the multi-faceted regulation of the world after the breakup of a bi-polar one. Our goal was not only more appropriate geopolitical placement or better integration of Slovenia, which would bring us lasting peace, stability, security and better economic prospects. We see the project of integration into the European Union as a creative opportunity and as a responsibility for more Europe. Our ambition is to make the best possible contribution to European excellence on the inside and on the outside. We know that we will enter into a different European relationship, as was the one that recognised us in 1992 or the one with which we started the accession negotiations. It is even different from what we have concluded negotiations with. There are new internal and external challenges ahead of us all. The science, the clear teaching of the development of the European Union so far, is very clear in this regard. She was always successful and found a way out of trouble when the spirit of the community prevailed in her, the way she began. It is clear that the European Union needs an internal redesign and deepening at the time of its historic enlargement. I am pleased that Slovenia is so clear and decisive on the side of the European Constitutional Treaty project, which is irrelevant for its further successful development and does not have the right alternative. Development in the direction of only national interests, exclusiveness of different clubs or aprior coalitions would be detrimental to Europe as a whole. The power of the European Community and its European Union was to develop a whole and a common sense. So far, it did not speak of large and small, including its specialty, its strength, and its attractiveness. Let's keep this model going. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today it again smells of history and holiday, so there is also gratitude in place, first of all to all who have supported the project of the independent Slovenian state, and especially to those who have given it their lives. Allow me, as President of the Commission of the National Assembly for European Affairs, to thank the members and members of both mandates for their very good cooperation, and to all, my fellow Members and colleagues, for all the decisions that have expressed our responsibility on the way to the European Union on the road to Slovenia. I owe special thanks to the experts and colleagues of the European Affairs Commission, who have provided us with great professional responsibility with materials and other essential assistance all these years. I should also like to express my special thanks to the European Commission delegation with its tireless ambassadors and colleagues, who have really stood by us in these years and have helped us to make rapid progress in our best efforts. I am also obliged to thank the Government, in particular the government's service for European affairs for exemplary cooperation in all these years. I also thank the President of the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor, for his attention to the work of the Committee on European Affairs and the Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, Jelko Kacin, for the many joint pro-European activities of the two working bodies, not to mention the exercise. Let me conclude by expressing my gratitude to the Slovenian media, who have accompanied us with great attention on this trip. We've been working on a challenging, beautiful and historic project. I'm glad we made it. I am also pleased that the members and members of the European Affairs Commission unanimously supported the proposal for a law on ratification. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm informing you it's on the calendar after May 1st, 2004. I wish you many May Slovenia in an extended European relationship and in a united Europe and once again sincerely thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u11	Thank you both to the presidents, colleague Kacin and colleague Peterlet for these two reports. Before I move on to the invitation to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, I should be allowed to say that, due to other obligations, both the President of the State and the President of the Constitutional Court, and I do not think that the President of the Council of State may be present to the end - and perhaps if possible, they will return to the reception that we will have in the lobby after the end of the debate. They ask that the National Assembly accept this apology with understanding. If I understand correctly, colleague Peterle, you would like to present at the same time the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. You're registered first. Let me also tell you how the positions will follow: colleague Pohorec, colleague Horvat, Janša, Štemberger, Podobnik, Kacin and Barovic. Please, Comrade Peterle, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not understand the departure of the President of the State as a protest against two of my successive performances. It is really a pleasure and an honor to be able to speak on behalf of New Slovenia at this extraordinary holiday and historic moment and I would like to start with a certain look, with some memory of this time, which has some beginning and has some concluding action. I would like to say that many of our ancestors and passengers have worked to bring about a independent Slovenian state. We have dreamed, we have debated, we have worked, but the nation matures when it can link its best wishes in a common political will, into joint political projects, and it can only succeed when it establishes its institutions, its levers, its power to implement such projects. That's where the fuck broke down in 1990, when this maturity came to the fore. It would not have been 25.6.1990, it would not have been 23 December 1990, not 15 January 1992, when we reached international recognition, not on 28 January 2004 and not on 1 May 2004, if it had not come to that important political will that was expressed in the first democratic elections, in which the forces that came before the Slovenian elections and voters were won with clear will, with a clear programme in which the independent and democratic Slovenian state was registered in the first place. I also feel a special duty to mention this fact, given that on this occasion I miss two key personalities who, unfortunately, passed away too soon. One was the project leader, the leader of the Demos Coalition, Dr. Jože Pučnik, who is a symbolic person of the Slovenian tectonic political movement, and the other, unfortunately, died prematurely, one of the authors of the Mayan declaration, former president of the Slovenian Writers Society and later Minister Rudi Sheligo. I am pleased that this will, this programme was then given such strong pre-biscite support in December 1990, and it has been clear since then that the Slovenian state will be reached. Now we're at the end of a stage. The second part of the road begins and I would say, on behalf of New Slovenia, it is now just beginning. We have done preparatory work so far, and we can now implement what we think is necessary to achieve a new quality of interaction at home and also on the European plan. I am confident that Slovenia will take advantage of new opportunities and will follow those fundamental values and principles that are faithful to them throughout its democratic development. Today is not the time to conduct an inventory in which we have achieved European standards to an appropriate level and where we do not. I'm sure there'll be a debate on that. It is important, however, that we also achieve in the future, as we have done with regard to some of the fundamental foreign policy objectives, in order to achieve the fundamental unity that will be necessary for the exercise of our interests. In this sense, I want all three Slovenias, the Republic of Slovenia, the foreign Slovenia and the domestic Slovenia to live in this relationship and to work together further. Our basic starting point is what has been described since the beginning of the European Union as the first, the focus of the human person, the respect for human dignity and the peoples. And if this is our starting point, we'll find common nouns. I want to get this over with. In the new circumstances, we will have a successful momentum, as much as possible, that Slovenian ideas will be such as to convince our colleagues in the European Union with them, we must truly think across Europe that with Slovenian hearts and Slovenian thoughts we can implement our new concepts. On behalf of New Slovenia, I thank all those who have supported the project of the independent Slovenian State at any time, anywhere and in any way. Long live Slovenia in the United Europe! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. I now invite you to take the floor to present the position of Member Group DeSUS, fellow Member Valentin Pohorc, followed by his colleague Horvat. First, Comrade Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers and ministers, distinguished guests, distinguished diplomatic council! Members and Members, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! Today is a big day for Slovenia as a country, for its citizens and citizens, Slovenia and Slovenia! This event is also fully aware of the joy and pride of our Group of Members and of the Party of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Since the declaration of Slovenian independence, Slovenia has consistently stressed that it is its priority to join the European Union, which has been our wishes since the end of the 1980s, when we were an integral part of the former Yugoslavia. Since we were in a minority, we took a separate path. It was hard at first. We have hardly been well consolidated as a country, but we have already received from the community a domestic task which at times seemed to be imprecise due to its scope, but we have been able to deliver it to mutual satisfaction. We have prepared a way for ourselves and future generations, which will also be included or better integrated into a community that we hope will be self-sufficient for them. The time has come for Slovenia to offer Europe, which is best in it, because we have a lot of good. In doing so, we must not forget what our qualities are, which Europe values as much as we value ourselves. This is the state of Slovenians from Soča to the plains of Pomur, with the ethnic minorities of Italians and Hungarians, the state of Slovenes who appreciate our relatives in the place and in the world, the country which introduces into Europe the spirit of confessing great men of Slovenians, Slovenian people such as Prešeren and Cankar, and others who were only allowed to dream of the time before us today. Only individuals wonder what Europe offers and means for Slovenia, and express fear of its presence, namely that Slovenia will be lost in a multitude of countries, that it will not affect the decision to lose its identity. Such doubts are unjustifiable, because we trust ourselves and realize that there is no need to grow national interests, only to see that a broad European family is something that will help us maintain our identity and that the realization of transnational interests leads to greater national interests than Slovenia would have outside this community. So we've been given an opportunity, and it's up to us to make the most of it. The European Union itself does not bring prosperity but brings better opportunities for its creation. As the human proverb says, "every end of one path is the beginning of another." The roads we have traversed in the past are a rich journey for the future. The path that awaits us requires that we achieve even more with our actions in the future. We are approaching the end of a deeper process of change in society's own understanding. This does not mean that the European door is closed. Slovenia will have to do everything to make Europe's boundlessness visible, no matter which side of the sky we look at. The European idea must gradually create a bond, similar to that in which we have recently created individual nations. In particular, the European Union must be synonymous with what is already one of its symbols: connectivity, inseparability, the concept that leads to the basic goal of all people, that is peace and prosperity. Finally, let it not be too modest to express, on behalf of the Group of Members, the recognition and gratitude to the current and former President of the State, the current and former Prime Minister, the current and former Presidents of the National Assembly, all ministers and ministers, the negotiating group and all other actors, and, of course, the Members and Members of all the Assembly and the States and citizens of the European countries who supported us on this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to my colleague, Fari Horvath. He will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by his colleague Janaš. First of all, my friend Ferry Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear High Council, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen! Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be very pleased to support the Act of Ratification of the Accession Treaty. We are proud to be aware of the historical significance of this moment. It is worth noting that Slovenia has been associated with its culture, its economy, people and mentality in the far and near past in a less favourable situation and is present in Europe. Therefore, it was so much more self-evident that, as a central priority, integration into Euro-Atlantic links was chosen to achieve its strategic interests in the wake of independence. A key condition for a successful process of preparation for accession, including successful negotiations, was the great unity of political parties, the good cooperation of the state leadership, the President of the previous and current, the government and parliament, the professional work of the negotiating group and the participation of social partners, NGOs, many individuals and the involvement of the media. All of this has contributed to the average awareness and awareness of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, without unrealistic expectations or illusions, but awareness of membership in the European Union as the best possible choice. This was best confirmed at the referendum on accession when the best result was achieved after the plebiscite on the independent country of Slovenia. Thanks to all those who have or have participated successfully in this process, thanks and support are provided to the Member States of the European Union, the EU institutions and their representatives in Slovenia. A new period shall begin with the moment of accession. The positive experiences of the accession process, in particular unity, cooperation, initiative, knowledge, experience and, above all, the membership of the European idea, will be important in meeting the expectations. What we will achieve in the EU will depend heavily on ourselves, politics, civil society and the functioning of our representatives in the European Union institutions. It is a confusing belief that there will be fewer jobs at home, even in the National Assembly. Already this year, we face major challenges in the enlarged EU, on which our future will depend. Among the priorities is certainly the adoption of a European Constitution in which we have participated equally in the creation of the Convention. In the interest of all, especially the new members, and to avoid Europe at two speeds, this core document on values, objectives, fundamental freedoms, institutions and policies of the EU will be adopted as soon as possible. For urgent faster economic growth, competitiveness, full employment and social cohesion, it will be important to revive the Lisbon Strategy. A new financial perspective will be extremely important to achieve its objectives. Slovenia is already strongly involved in the activities of the institutions of the European Union, as observers in the European Parliament, we are equally involved in political groups, working groups and committees. The United List, a full member of the organisation of European Social Democrats, actively participates in the parliamentary group of these second most powerful groups in the European Parliament. Increasingly active is the participation of governments or ministries in the world and its formations, including the European Union mission. The growing involvement of social partners and NGOs and individuals, including the employment of young professionals in the European Union institutions, is indispensable. An even stronger universal media presence will also be necessary. Let me conclude with the expectation that Slovenia will be as successful as it has been preparing for membership, realizing its interests in the enlarged Union, and through a more successful union in the global world, including strengthening its identity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Horvath. I now give the floor to my colleague Janez Janša, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, followed by his colleague Štemberger. First of all, my friend Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, Excellency, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that this day has come. The day we ratify the international treaty by which we join the citizens of those countries with which we share similar or equal values. When we adopted the first political programmes of the Social Democratic Union of Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Union 15 years ago, whose legal and moral successor today is the Slovenian Democratic Party, there was a European vision in both programmes in a visible place. This was sometimes when this vision was still banned and when it was the first lit candle on its way to Europe. Today, we listened to many thanks to people who had a good bargain at a time when the journey was open. We too join in thanking the Presidents of the governments at this time, both European Ministers, Foreign Ministers and all negotiators who have undoubtedly done a great deal of work. Nevertheless, it seems to me that this historic day must also be remembered by those who have taken the step that we are taking today. These treaties could not be ratified today if Slovenia was not a single country. And the biggest step on the road to Europe has been taken by Slovenia with its independence. Those who first very clearly defined this step in the writing constitution in the 57th issue of the New Magazine, in the programme of the political coalition Demos, are certainly the most deserving of this step. I would point out here among many, unfortunately, already the late Dr. Jožet Pučnik, who brought a European vision to Slovenia in 1989, from a Europe he knew. [[...]] [[Applause]] And without which it would probably be a lot different than it is. [[...]] We owe thanks to all who have fallen for Slovenia, to the war for Slovenia, to their relatives and to all veterans and veterans of the war for Slovenia, who have defended Slovenia. At the referendums for the European Union and also for NATO last year, Slovenian voters and voters continued a step that was taken on plebiscite in December 1990. In fact, it was a continuation of the same decision. Both during the negotiations and before the referendum, the Slovenian Democratic Party actively worked, supported the government in the projects run by the government, and indeed took the floor that Slovenia's entry into the European Union is a Slovenian national project. As a result, we are disappointed that, unfortunately, I must also stress today that the nationality of such a project ends quickly when it comes to decision-making. We regret that without any consultation with the opposition, even without at least informing us, although we were almost sitting together each evening, the European Commissioner has chosen her own. I have no comment on this choice; it could be this choice with great legitimacy and with a significantly greater political power then also in Europe, but only a little more wisdom and breadth was needed. At the same time, we are pleased that the end of last year finally began a dialogue on the future of Slovenia as part of talks with the President of the country to open this space. I must say that there are no more indeterminate obligations than talking about the path we are embarking on and answering questions about how to organise ourselves, where to invest, what to do with our school system, how to respond as citizens and as a nation to the challenges posed by the European Union and how to take advantage of new opportunities. A Respectable High Congregation [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We have always been a part of Europe by virtue of our values. [[...]] Even when for political reasons this may not have been allowed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that today this high assembly also formally recognises this. It won't happen overnight, but a new time is on its way. Today we are concluding a step that we have taken with plebiscite in December 1990. Honest congratulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Igor Štemberger. It will present the position of the Youth Party's Group of Members. After that, he will be given the word of his colleague Podobnik. First, my colleague Igor Štemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear National Assembly, Minister and Ministers, distinguished guests. As a member of the generation and a representative of the party who, due to her youth, has at least participated in the preparation of Slovenia for joining the European Union, while at the same time living in the new situation, I will talk more about the future of the past. This in no way affects the fact that I am very happy and proud that today, on behalf of the Young Slovenia Party, I can express my support for the accession treaty, an action for which almost all of us have worked together without exception for a long time. Citizens at the referendum also confirmed that we were doing the right thing and assessed the work in a high percentage for good. They have shown their trust for us back and also for the future, and this is a great commitment for all of us. This must be borne in mind in particular by a policy that must never forget who it serves because of its own interests. Without this awareness, membership in the European Union will not do us much good; it can even do us harm. Such shortsightedness and selfishness, which unfortunately is not very rare in the Slovenian political space, can mean long-term loss of cultural or other sovereignty. As a politician and a citizen, I want our representatives and colleagues to succeed in the most important projects in the future to achieve the widest possible consensus that will get as close as possible to the will of citizens. This applies to both European and Slovenian space. To this end, the participation of the population in decision-making should be expanded and the institutions should operate as openly as possible. The search for consensus and cooperation must also be a principle for our representatives from various political parties, who should never forget that they represent Slovenia in particular and only then the political option. We are always obliged to take into account the fact that someone pays public debt and that we have children who will have no concern for healthy foundations in a united Europe only second-class citizens. The vast majority of Slovenians will be able to live better after entering the European Union and have more opportunities, with some smart policy of course. Some minority or individual economic sectors, if we look at them more broadly, for example, the processing industry will not benefit from this path if we do not know how to help them. Active action against increasing social inequality, against poverty and the prospect that some of the people are experiencing - now the government is slightly ignoring - will be urgent - they must not drown in such a so-called success story. With all the strength and with all the tools available, we need to make sure that there will be as little unpleasant news as possible, such as yesterday's closure of the Ljubljana Tobacco Factory by entering the European Union. Slovenia must also remain a social state after joining the European Union, and Europe must be a means of ensuring this, not an excuse for abolishing it. The objective is to balance the network of economic, social and environmental factors, which are the only marriage for a better society in a legal relationship, and a better society is certainly our common goals. Dearly beloved, I am confident that future Europe can be some kind of a new world, which can mean the most advanced group of developed and peaceful nations in the world. This objective will certainly not be achieved if we do not all look to and advocate for this objective. The so-called Europe of two speeds, whose contours are already showing and whose concept can also appear in Slovenia, can now be the first obstacle. What does Slovenia mean by two speeds? It means stopping the development and lack of ideas according to the achievements of Slovenia's greatest achievement since its independence, that is, joining the European family on the one hand and failing the quality of life, decline in naturalism and joy on the other. It is clear that all of us, and most of all the government, which, due to the upcoming elections, is increasingly political and less and less state-favouring, are awaiting a tremendous amount of work. It is nice to celebrate today, but tomorrow, especially after May 1st, we will not need celebration, but concrete and successful work to prove that we know and can do. However we can do this, we must also confirm the Treaty on our Slovenian side, and we will be Members of the Young Slovenia Party with pride and joy. We are not afraid of Europe, we see an opportunity for the future in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. Comrade Janez Podobnik will now present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by his colleague Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u22	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, ministers. Unfortunately, the presidents have already left us. With pride and peaceful conscience, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party today will confirm the accession treaty, thereby showing and reaffirming our European orientation. As we will, I am firmly convinced, today, once again, with the vast majority of us, we will be partying to the Vatican Agreement. Today is a time for elevated words, a time to remember, a time for optimism, and a responsible political reality. Today, this great political deadline from the self-serving plebiscite to last year's referendum is being concluded, when citizens and citizens of politics have committed us and given us a mandate to support this accession treaty. At this point, it is time again to recall the political self-sustainment energy represented by Demos as a major political movement. The Slovenian People's Party was and remains its original heir. That is why there is a reverential memory of his president, Dr. Jožet Pučnik. Colleagues and colleagues! As Minister Potočnik said in his address, and we hope and expect our new Commissioner, the project of accession to the European Union is concluded as a major logistical, professional and political project. Also a political project. Policy is also important in the bodies of the European Union, including in Brussels. If you're not politically strong, you mean less. Politics is a legitimate path through which you exercise your interests, including your national interests. At this point, I would like to say that the Slovenian People's Party has been the party that has been in governments since the ratification of the accession agreement in 1997. In the first Drnovškova, in Bajuk, in the second Drnovškova and in Ropova. Our ministers in all governments have had European direction and responsibility as a priority and have done a great deal of work. In the area of development issues, regional development, rural development and the development of Slovenian and European agriculture, particularly much work has been done by the Minister, mag. Booth, even as a member, is the first member of the negotiating group. And he did a good job. We are convinced that our negotiators, government representatives in Parliament, have had, in their work, as a key guide, the exercise of Slovenia's national interest. We are not ashamed to say this, for in the National Assembly let this be heard. In the European institutions, Slovenian national interest can only be advocated by representatives of the Slovenian state, while others will make it more difficult and less difficult to do so. And our parents did it, and they're still gonna do it. And as we say, it's time for optimism and time for reality. We owe Slovenian politicians that when we speak positively about the European Union, and the Slovenian People's Party is a speaker of such words that we are realists, as colleague Kramberger mentioned before me - I apologize, Štemberger mentioned before me - people have noticed that yesterday in the heart of the Slovenian state, in the Slovenian capital one important, successful Slovenian company with foreign majority ownership simply shuts down part of its production. The effect of the European Union, they say. What does that mean? Are we really going to bring most of our industrial capacities to the south and the far east? That's not right. This is a challenge for Slovenian policy and beyond, and this is a challenge for all those who will be active in the European Parliament, the Commission, etc. Slovenia one speed and no more speed. A few days ago, a colleague at the Slovenian border asked me whether entering the European Union meant that the Slovenian future would be such that some places, regions and areas would not feel a deleted Slovenian future. This is also the duty of Slovenian politics. We therefore support this agreement in the Slovenian People's Party, for it will be a common European Slovenia, a parent, a Zambian [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Maybe it won't be too much; once again, I'm asking the National Assembly to understand. All the presidents, including President Robb, who now has a visit to the State Department, have asked me that you do not understand their absence as anything other than official obligations, which were indemnity. My colleague Kacin will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the presentation will then be concluded by colleague Barovic. Comrade Kacin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u24	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Present, former presidents of the state, government, parliament! Present, former ministers, diplomatic council and other high-ranking guests! Especially those who are with us today thanks to the direct transmission provided by electronic media. Thank you all for your time and attention to this event. Speaking on behalf of the largest parliamentary group is always a challenge, but also a great honor. There are not many liberal governments, and there are fewer liberal parties who would have so much support in the local public and so much participation in Parliament. Being anywhere is always the biggest responsibility. We bear and share with satisfaction and pride the responsibility and responsibility for our successful integration into the European Union, together with other parliamentary parties, with civil society and the general public, that is, with all of you. It is a success that we can easily recognize and can truly be enjoyed by every Slovenian and Slovenian, as well as by every other resident and inhabitant of our young but successful country. The moment is nearer when we will be home not only in Europe, where we have always been, but also in the European Union, where we will be the only one of all the successor countries of Yugoslavia for now. I believe that each and every one of us will recognize the profound changes and achievements of our integration, which bring European practice, European standards, European tolerance and millions of European opportunities and opportunities for our ever more successful future, including for all those who fear membership due to possible job losses, we can and must find an alternative and a better opportunity. We also bring different motherland to all Slovaks and Slovenians around the world, including Slovenia, which is an equal part of the European Union, and Slovenia, which is becoming the official language of the European Union. That is why we want and need to be focused on the future, so at this moment, I propose to the President of the National Assembly that he put the hammer down for a moment and rather find the European flag and put it out. For today is a real opportunity for this, not in this hall, but not in the lobby of the European flag. On behalf of the LDS, I hope and wish that our experiences and successes will help others and encourage governments, parliaments, political parties and, in particular, millions of individuals in South-Eastern Europe to critically revalue our past work, to closely monitor our future practice and for themselves, for their immediate neighbours, to learn and expose all that is necessary to keep the enlargement process alive and from now on be faster and more successful in the area we once called Yugoslavia. We don't know that name anymore. However, the sovereign countries of the South-Slovak nations are declaring and swearing all battles on their own European direction, and they are also taking a long way to and from the European Union. The countries of South-Eastern Europe should pay more attention, tenderness and respect to each other; they should develop more decisively and promote mutual cooperation and mutual trade. The path towards the European Union and the European Union is always, everywhere and without exception, through its neighbours, if they are or will not be members of the European Union. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is looking forward to all these positive changes, and we therefore sincerely want the NGOs among us to take an even greater and more active role in explaining and transferring experience and disseminating the European spirit and practice of the European Union to all countries of South-Eastern Europe and, in particular, the Western Balkans. I hope and wish that we can also bear the personal experience and positive knowledge of our respect for others and others, the exercise and consistent respect of the human rights of individuals and the mutual tolerance that is built into the foundations of the future European Charter. We want progress and success first in our first South-East neighbour so that all the people of our country can enjoy all the European Union's acquisitions, including the abandonment of customs and police border controls at our future external borders of the European Union and the free movement of people, ideas, goods, capital and services could live in every direction from Slovenia and Slovenia. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The enlargement of the European Union is an outstanding success and the most important part of the common foreign and security policy of the European Union, which is supported by the LDS at home, as is the ELDR in Europe. [[...]] For our entry into the European Union and for the law on the ratification of the accession agreement, we will contribute all the votes that the LDS today has available here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u25	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. Everything is ready for the National Assembly to lift the European flag, and the first and the right moment for that will be on 1 May this year. Kolga Barovic will now conclude a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and will present the opinion of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Before I give you my word, my colleague Barovic, the National Assembly will proceed exceptionally today, as I have already announced yesterday, to a decision. There will be a possible explanation for the vote, so I am now asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the big debate room because we are moving slowly to the decision-making room. My friend Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues, Members of the Slovenian Parliament, distinguished fellow Members of the Slovenian Parliament, all in attendance! Today it has been said, and in previous days it has also been written that it is the most important ratification of this mandate and this century. True, most people think it is the greatest success of this country. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we stress that this is also the greatest responsibility and decision of this country and of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We will enter a new world, and as a respected colleague of Lord Gruenfeld told me last year: If you want to join a club, you must respect its rules. As of 1 May this year, we will be members of a club that has its own rules and we will have to respect them. There's no going back and there won't be. We're gonna have to take all the good and everything bad that's gonna happen to us. The Accession Treaty is a comprehensive document for all ten new members of the European Union together and the last step in the pre-accession period. It is important for all of us and citizens to be aware that the Treaty must be ratified by all the members of the European Union so far. To date, it has not been ratified by Greece, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. If any of these three countries are not available, the integration process will be stopped. In the Slovenian National Party, we feel that despite the quantitative work done by Parliament, the content work of Parliament in the integration process is not good enough. Cooperation between the government and Parliament in the substantive field has also not been good enough, but we hope that it will be at least from now on. From now on, the government in the European authorities will also take over the legislative power, which is unacceptable for the Slovenian National Party, despite the rules of the games. For the Slovenian National Party, the issue of free movement of capital and the property rights of foreigners is still open because today we can see what happens, in case, unfortunately, Tobacco or Iscre Semič as you wish. We have pointed out these questions in the past, and some who have the privilege of sitting at the speaker stage have laughed about it. For us it is still an open question of the transitional periods of goods and labour and an open question of the so-called two speeds. We fear that Slovenia will be at the slower pace. We have this right to be afraid. Another important thing for Slovenia is Annex 13, which lays down the specific conditions of our membership, and where the negotiating chapters on 29 pages contain derogations from the legal order. Derogations from the acquis of the European Union negotiated by Slovenia in the accession talks. Unfortunately, the only Slovenian national party here once again draws attention to caution and sobriety. Slovenia represents the poor 0.5% of the total population of the European Union. Our "littleness" in the European Union can be a great advantage or weakness. This will depend on the 24 Member States of the European Union and their relationship, to this, the so-called "minority". Above all, from our representatives in the European Union. The will of the Slovenians, expressed at the referendum, was "for" in a large percentage. We must respect the will of people, but at the same time we fear in the Slovenian National Party that all the expectations of such thinking Slovenians will also be implemented. It's nice to have something new, as you expect, nice and good. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we reiterate that entry into almost 500 million countries brings primarily responsibility and respect for the new legal, economic and political order. We are entering Europe in fact and indeed. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope and wish that this action will make national consciousness and national pride with the Slovenians the strongest so far. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u27	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. We will now proceed to the vote. I should like to recall that Article 3a of the Constitution provides that the National Assembly must ratify the Treaty with a two-thirds majority, so once again I ask all my colleagues and colleagues to be present in the Chamber at the time of the vote. May I have your attention, please? My friend Bayuk wants to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests. We are proud that Slovenia today can make sovereign decisions about one of the most important steps in our common history. The New Slovenia Group has actively participated in a broad political consensus from the very beginning and has supported and supported Slovenia's entry into Euro-Atlantic links all the time. Today, we can all proudly note that the creative and partnership of most parliamentary parties, regardless of their status in the government coalitions or in the opposition, has consistently allowed a useful and irreplaceable room for manoeuvre for our negotiating group and our diplomacy in this key area. The time we live in is the time of the inevitable globalisation of integration flows. Slovenians, by their roots, belong to European culture and the European Union is our natural space. The European Union is much more than just a form of political and administrative ties between sovereign countries living in peace and mutual respect. If anyone, the Slovenians know what life was like in Europe when we could not respect these values. But above all, it is a world of values from which the daily life of its nations is fed. Slovenia's entry into the European Union is, of course, complete, but certainly not complete. Slovenia will be fully integrated into Europe when in Slovenia these values truly come to life in the full integrity of their potential. Europe on our soil is now the biggest challenge facing us as a nation and a young country. We will devote all our efforts to this goal in New Slovenia. The New Slovenia Group will be happy and proud to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Colleague Maria Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u30	Mr President, on behalf of the Hungarian nationality of the people living in Slovenia, I will quietly and proudly support this Treaty in my own name and also in the name of nationality. As at the 1991 plebiscite, we have supported the majority nation on the path of independence, and we now feel that what is for the majority nation is good for us. That is why we are always together and always with each other, and we are working towards entering the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u31	Does anyone else want to explain their voice? Please, my friend Ashishch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I believe that today is also an opportunity to stress in particular the fact that, on the day of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, they are in some way merging, not only Hungary, but also Italy's nationality, living in Slovenia, with their native nation. Also, Slovenians living in Italy, Austria and Hungary are becoming part of the European community, together with us. What the Constitution imposes on us, especially concern for minorities, living in Slovenia as well as outside, is likely to be much easier to implement, and this is likely to raise certain questions. There's one more fact I'd like to point out. A quarter of Slovenians, nationals and citizens of Slovenia will live in the 10-kilometre border Schengen zone as of 1 May. I have already pointed out on the Committee that we will have to be particularly concerned that Slovenia will not become a country of two or more developmental speeds and that in future regionalisation and the adoption of a law on coherent regional development, particular attention will have to be paid to these areas, which will live in a different way from before. This does not mean that I will disregard the advice of Minister Potočnik that I will be able to vote with my hand and conscience in favour of this Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u33	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, our entry into the European Union will certainly be confirmed, and in the Slovenian National Party we will keep an eye on what will happen in the European Union. We remain the only European skeptic who will be willing to weigh each document carefully and give an opinion. Slovenian national interest will certainly be in good hands, because we will look after it. But if there is anything good about today's entry into the European Union, it is certain that today or in the shortest possible time that the password that we have heard so many times - "When I am large, I will be the customs officer at Kolpa" will be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u35	My friend Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u36	Thank you, President. The ceremony comes first at such an important historic moment, and I too will contribute to this ceremony by, of course, giving my voice confidently to this ratification. When doubts arise in some, if we run into a Europe of two speeds, we might find ourselves in another group, no one wants to. Personally, I am sure that we meet all the conditions for following the fastest, and even if we might land in a group of the worst, it would still be better than being outside where there is no speed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u37	The last one I have or isn't the last, Comrade Bernick, then my colleague Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u38	Mr. President. Dear guests from the government, ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said today about our accession to the European Union. One thing that bothered me a little bit was that it was said, let's not deal with the past, and it wasn't said in the context that I have in mind. However, I remember that it was not that long before, for some of the phrases "Europe Never" was changed overnight to "Europe Now". That says we're extremely adaptable. I hope that this will help us in a good way when we enter the European Union, wipe our sharp edges and remember our responsibilities. There's only one thing I'd mention here. We hope that our entry, our membership in the European Union, will also have success and benefits for our Slovenians in exchange and throughout the world. Today, we can see that our authorities still do not respect this enough or work hard enough to make them truly the same as us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you very much. My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm very glad to be very precise about our rules of the game, but today I thought this gong once a little too precise. Given the festivities of this occasion, the festivities of this, it seems to me that it would not hurt if the colleges were more generous and give Members and Members a little more opportunity to express themselves on this occasion. I'm sure there wouldn't be any dissonant tones. And only on this occasion can I say something else why I will support ratification. Also because after 1848 we will be the closest to the concept of the United Slovenia. When the borders fall, the Slovenian people, divided by minorities in all the surrounding countries, will have a new opportunity to live in some new quality, to find and live common nouns. I'm very, very happy about this time. After we were artificially divided, formally belonging to so-called various political blocs, in this picture the Slovenian minorities paid special political taxes with fates, which were tragically marked by this time, and I will also support ratification because I think new options are opening up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u41	Anyone else want a word? Please, buddy Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u42	It's time to work and it's time to celebrate. Today is, I believe, a time when we can rejoice and celebrate. A lot of work was done. We have a lot of work to do. And we've got work to do at home. And that's important. But there's something else that matters. From this day forward, I believe that we will also be doing a little differently at home. That we will work with arguments of power that we will not work with an argument of ignorance. And so we still have a lot of work to do in the regional field. And I hope that he will mature and that he has also matured the time to come with the Slovenian Act living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. This time, too, when this Treaty is adopted and ratified, is ahead of us. Therefore, I am pleased that today we will ratify this treaty and open the way to all that is to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much. He's a friend of mine. Then my friend Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u44	Your Honors are here! Slovenia has always been in Europe and the distortion or neglect of this fact indicates our smallness. Just as our smallness is indicated by much of today's debates. About how we need to hang new symbols and how we are ashamed of the old, how we are ashamed of our own history. As a member of the National Party, I will not support ratification, but only for reasons or in the form of a protest against this Slovenian government and against this national assembly, which has not been able to do anything in all these years that would protect us in a new, so-called promised Europe, through which you all see that by 2.5. we will, of course, become completely different people. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll stay the same! If we don't appreciate ourselves, no one else will. Up to 1.5. However, Slovenian policy has time to protect those who will be unemployed to enable an equivalent economy. But you said to all of this a long time ago, "No, thank you. This is not what Slovenia needs, because we are something more." I personally appreciate that it is now the last time for the Slovenian government and Slovenian policy to know what it will mean to join the European Union, to take those few steps towards protection and to protect the Slovenians and the Slovenes. And as an additional argument for this is, after all, the upheaval in these days, the dismissal of tobacco workers. This is the task that awaits us, and that would be the reason for the toast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u45	My friend Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. 28 January 2004 will certainly be a part of the history of the Slovenian people, since we are joining Europe, the new market of over 400 million people, which on the one hand offers us many new opportunities, but also many of our risks. This brings about the dream that we recorded in the 1991 declaration, and then for ten years with various activities, we also carried out it all the time, and in December 2001 we realized that ten new members of the European Union were listed in Laekn, 10 new members of the European Union. All these years have marked a safe adjustment to the new legal, economic and cultural space, where Slovenians have been since our history. This will be the second time today, for the first time on the Foreign Policy Committee, and for the second time here today, I am very happy and proud to support this Treaty, with which we will become members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u47	There's a colleague of mine on my list. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u48	It is indeed a time of work and a time of speech and also a time of speech. I might mention that in one of the upcoming speeches there was some joy in starting to talk about European values, for example, I read your article Mr Bajuk on values and I think our values will also change. In this Europe, I am not afraid of different speeds. It's gonna be very different. What kind of things we're going to be very fast on. I travel across Europe, I've been to Paris many times, and I tell you that in some things France is slower than Slovenia. It's not just going to get grouped like that. Even the forgiving ones we are talking about, the great turbans are everywhere, not just because we are going to Europe. In Germany there is a great deal of forgiveness of people and adjustment to fast and new matters. That's what's waiting for us. If Europe seems to be an excuse for everything that will be bad and wrong with us, it seems to me that we will act defensively again. But this is precisely because some have already mentioned the new position of the Slovenians. As a writer, however, I would like to say that between the values we keep, it seems to me that it is necessary to pay particular attention to the Slovenian language. Maybe now it won't matter if all our singers on the Eurovision are always singing in English alone, but they're almost always in the last place, and maybe we can promote at least Slovenian. The same is true of a policy that does not need to quickly take over English, but through translators to nurture Slovenian.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u49	Does anyone else want to explain their voice? A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I will also be very pleased to support this ratification for reasons that have been achieved through, I will say, these years of negotiations and also through the desire that different people have led us to try to find our space of freedom in a wider community, not one that is confused only by the Republic of Slovenia. I will also support this ratification because I hope that Slovenia will become more active after May 1 [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] A country, a country that can more respect all people, regardless of their status, civil or foreign, regardless of their nationality, regardless of gender, sexual orientation and so on. This kind of openness, which we all say is European, will hopefully bring radical changes to cultural practices in the Republic of Slovenia. If I am paraphrasing what has already been tried many times today, that it is time for a dream and, of course, a new day tomorrow, I would say to myself that I would like the authorities to start making decisions tomorrow for those who have been waiting for the status quo for the past 12 years and who could truly rejoice in this new situation in Slovenia. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] at a historic moment. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u51	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Although I would prefer to make a decision, but, Mr President, within the scope of the opportunity I have to explain my voice, I will say that I have just heard that when Europe comes, culture is also coming. So we haven't been cultural until now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u53	There is no controversy between the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u54	I'm just saying that the pride of such and similar statements will be withheld and I will not support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u55	Does anyone else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're ahead of the final task of concluding action. Before the vote on the law of ratification. As the founder last year, we have complemented Article 3, which is now Article 3a of the Slovenian Constitution, which states: "Slovenia can, through an international treaty ratified by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members, transfer the work of sovereign rights to international organisations based on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the principles of the rule of law and enter into a defence relationship with countries based on respect for these values." No amendments were adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, and there is no debate on articles and amendments. We're moving to a vote on the law. I'm asking, are all the voting devices okay? We're voting. Excuse me, yes, the contract. No, no, I'm breaking up. Comrade Sok raised his hand. Is he okay? Yeah. That's why I'd rather ask you one more time. Is everything all right now? Good. The National Assembly will vote on the ratification law. Please. We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall! The law on ratification has been adopted. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] 84 present, 80 for and none against. [[...]] [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] Let's go. Let's go. Let's Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, all senior guests, please join the toast, a toast to the honour of Slovenia in the European Union, in the lobby of the great hall immediately after this. The National Assembly will continue its meeting at 12 noon and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u56	Dear Minister, representatives and representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, honourable Members, honourable Members! Let's get back to work. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day - this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the holy seat on legal questions. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I would like to take the floor to invite a government representative to further explain the bill. Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Allow me to present briefly, on behalf of the proposer, a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See on legal issues. This agreement was signed in Ljubljana on 14 December 2001, following final negotiations and after both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Foreign Policy have considered and adopted a report on final negotiations. The agreement deals with certain legal issues between our country and the Holy Office, based on the dual nature of the relationship where, on the one hand, the relationship between the State of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters as an entity of international law "sui generis", with which Slovenia has established diplomatic relations. At the same time, it represents the top of the Catholic Church. On the other hand, the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Catholic Church in the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the Slovenian Constitution it is equal to other religious communities in the Republic of Slovenia and operates freely under Canon law and, of course, in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 59th regular meeting on 14 January 2002, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia set out the text of the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement and sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance. In view of the different interpretations of the content of the agreement in public, although the Government itself considered that the agreement was not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, this agreement, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 106 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the Constitutional Court the opinion of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia on the compatibility of the agreement with the Constitution of the same Republic. At its meeting on 19 November 2003, the Constitutional Court held that the provisions of the Agreement were not inconsistent with the Constitution, insofar as Article 1 is interpreted as the Catholic Church is bound to operate in so-called mixed areas - these are the areas in which the functioning of the Catholic Church and the State is covered or intertwined - so in these areas it is bound to respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This is written in the so-called interpretative opinion. The opinion of the Constitutional Court, which obliges the State authorities of the Republic of Slovenia to take into account in the implementation of the agreement the content of a particular agreement, as established by the Constitutional Court, was published in the Official Journal of our State, No. 118 of 3 December 2003. With regard to the content of the agreement, it should be pointed out that the Preamble Agreement itself refers to Articles 7 and 41 of the Constitution and thus respects the principle of the separation of the State and the religious communities, the principle of equality and the principle of their freedom of action, as well as the principle of freedom of conscience, whereby confession of faith and other definitions in private and public life is free. The principle of the separation of State and religious communities provides religious communities with full freedom of action in their religious sphere - it is said, in the spirit realm - and thus prevents the extension of State powers to matters of a purely religious nature or of the internal affairs of religious communities. In areas where the functioning of religious communities and states is covered or intertwined, freedom of action of religious communities as an integral part of the principle of State and religious separation is limited by the sovereignty of the State and its legal order. On the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Court, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy at its 75th regular meeting on 14 January 2004, agreed with the proposal for a law on ratification. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you adopt the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See on legal matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Jelk Kacin, to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u59	Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! At its 75th regular meeting on 14 January this year, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See on legal matters. The Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee initially said that this ratification did not fall within the scope of the ratifications they deal with each month at the meetings of the Committee. Due to extremely sensitive legal and emotional issues, as well as ideological issues raised and opened at the time of the formation of this Agreement, the agreement has travelled more than a long way and has shared more than has connected Slovenia's political space. Ideological issues have always been and will in the future be the point that distinguishes not only politics but, above all, people, citizens. However, the role of politicians and politicians is that divorces go beyond and exceed the task of reaching compromises and proving to people that the state is not based on ideological differences, but on respect for and coexistence of what distinguishes us. The agreement called for reflection and definitions, raised doubts and dilemmas and divided much more than it linked our political space. Therefore, the relative political compromise reached on such a sensitive issue as the relationship between the Church and the State is, in his view, proof of maturity and prudence. He regretted that, on a proposal from the United List of Social Democrats, the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See had not been considered as scheduled since, following a decision by the Constitutional Court, there could be no further doubts as to the effect of the agreement. He said that the Committee had already considered the initiative on 9 June 1999, followed by complex negotiations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See, which were also interrupted by the sensitivity of the problem and the various interpretations of the individual interpretations. Unanimity in interpretations and the possibility of a different understanding of the individual was determined by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the Constitutional Court had asked for an opinion. The Committee also found itself in real trouble at the end of November 1999, when the Journal published the text of the alleged agreement, which the Committee did not have and could not know. At its 110th meeting, on 17 November 1999, the Committee called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to deliver the text of the agreement immediately to the National Assembly. He further explained that some of the concerns had been substantiated, as the Constitutional Court had pointed out in its opinion that an agreement could also be interpreted in a way that was not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but at the same time found that the agreement was not inconsistent with the Constitution, to the extent that it was explained that the Catholic Church would respect its legal order in its operation in the Republic of Slovenia and that the State authorities of the Republic of Slovenia would have to take into account the content of the provisions of the agreement, as defined by the Constitutional Court in its interpretation. In the opening presentation of the agreement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that this regulation governs the relations between Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters as an entity of international law and breaks down the question of the relationship between the State and the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia. In the debate, the majority of Members supported the agreement and expressed satisfaction at the fact that its ratification would finally take place, and pointed out that the long-standing process of reaching an agreement that had been drawn up for 12 years was also detrimental to the State's reputation. They recalled that the Vatican was among the first to recognise independent Slovenia and expressed their conviction that regulating relations with the Holy Headquarters was a European standard. They considered that the decision of the Government to send an agreement to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia was correct. Vice-President Janez Podobnik warned that, according to his conduct, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Evangelical Church in the Republic of Slovenia has already been concluded. With regard to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, however, he considered that it contained some very important interpretations of the fundamental principles in force in the relationship between the Church and the State. Above all, it is the principle of the neutrality of the State towards all religions, other beliefs, including atheistic, limiting the principle of separation with the principle of sovereignty, the principle that the State cannot regulate the religious lives of its citizens, but must not only allow them but also allow individual and collective religious freedom to its citizens, and the finding that the principle of division, separation of the Church and the State does not mean that the State should not support the functioning of religious communities, of course, provided that all religious communities are equal. He concluded his debate with the following emphasis, and here I quote: "The Catholic Church of Slovenia is part of religious, cultural and national history, the way in which relations between the Catholic Church and the state were regulated in certain historical developments." End of quote. Joseph Jerovšek expressed the hope that the Holy Headquarters would also confirm and ratify this agreement, as it will be most done for the normal development of relations. Alojz Peterle said that already in 1993 a mixed commission was appointed to regulate relations between the Church and the Government or the State and since then it has been considered that the Slovenian Government is ready to initiate a formal procedure for talks or negotiations. He added that the agreement with the Evangelical Church was practically adopted in the same text very quickly and without difficulty. He warned that the agreement with the Holy Headquarters merely formalized the de facto situation and expressed the hope that its adoption would end too long in the course of the ideological concept of the enemy. Ambassador Ivan Mamić said that we had experienced the Gospel or a happy message because the agreement would go through the procedure. He added that he would be pleased if, at the time of consideration of each bill, he would be given so much attention in the National Assembly, as this would mean that no law would have to be corrected within one year. Mr Bevk said, however, that despite the Constitutional Court's view it is possible to interpret the Vatican on the basis of its interests and needs, the provisions of the agreement can also be interpreted in its own way. The United List of Social Democrats still has doubts about the agreement and considered that the Holy Headquarters could interpret the agreement in its own way. In particular, since so far there has been no statement on the part of the Roman Catholic Church or the Holy See to agree with the interpretation of the agreement as established by the Constitutional Court and announced that it will abstain. Aurelio Juri added that opinions on the Vatican Agreement are still shared in the United List of Social Democrats. Sam opposes him because of his message that the Roman Catholic Church is the first and most influential religious institution in the Republic of Slovenia. It considers that such a communication violates the principle of the laity of the State and equality of all religious communities. With regard to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, however, he said that he did not personally doubt that the State would follow the direction of the Constitutional Court. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, had no comments. However, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia No. RN-1/02/21 of 19.11.2003 of an interpretative nature and that the ratification process should take particular account of points 1 and 7 of this opinion. After the discussion, the Committee adopted, after 13 votes in favour and one against, of the 14 members present, all the articles of the draft law. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal be dealt with in the text submitted by the National Assembly for legislative procedure and adopted. The rapporteur will be the chairman of the committee at the meeting of the National Assembly, as decided by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Before the proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement, representatives of the parliamentary groups will present their views to us, first of all Mr Aloise Peterle will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u61	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear government officials! Thank you so much for saying that. I also thank the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy for presenting the debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy in a comprehensive and credible manner. So we can get quite a look at the arguments that were expressed on this occasion. I would like to say that the regulation of a country's relationship with the Holy Headquarters is a legal and political standard in the European Union. Not only in it, but in particular in countries where a high proportion of people live in Roman Catholic religion, as is the case in Slovenia. Indeed, we started in 1993 with the mixed board I led at the time, and in June 1994 we prepared everything necessary to begin talks with the Holy Headquarters, which was informed of this readiness, but because of opposition - I will call it - an ideological-political line in the then coalition, which represented a markedly different view of the normalization of relations between the state and the churches, this thing simply could not come long after the agenda and this ratification or this effort for an agreement has a 12-year-old beard. Since we had previously celebrated the Slovenian path to the European Union, which was possible precisely because we have proved that we want to establish real European standards here, it looks like this story in some contradiction with this will, because it is in this area - and not only that, unfortunately, God - has maintained a long-standing relationship that really - as I said on the committee - feeds on the old concept of the enemy. It is well known and I myself have had a personal experience with the fact that in ancient times, of course, the Church, religious and religious were not exactly the preferred category written down. We were somehow "not need" or at least "wrong citizens" and second-rate in a variety of ways. So it took too long for this relationship to normalize. This is not the case, this is the position of New Slovenia - no, it is the first thing to formalize relations with the Holy Headquarters, the first thing is a Slovenian man who can be trusted or unfaithful, in this case it is the citizens and citizens who are faithful, who also represent the majority of the Slovenian, citizen or democratic body, if you want, and we have experienced this as ignorance towards this group of people who, by our and European rules, have all rights and have the right to live in full, in accordance with their beliefs and their protection. We are pleased, however, that this maturity has been achieved and that the Committee on Foreign Policy has supported with such a majority - with only one vote against - this agreement. We regret, however, that this country, which has indeed experienced exceptional attention from the Holy See and also from the pope himself, who personally engaged in the recognition of Slovenia, that only this country has expressed suspicion about the conduct of the partner and has somehow attributed to it the possibility to act against the legal order in force in Slovenia. We regret that this was even possible and that this ideological-political line has used all possible procedural and other ways to delay this process to the extreme and unseemly limits. Therefore, we are pleased that this process will obviously end, which has been going on for too long, and that part of Slovenian normalisation and transition will be done and that on this basis we will also come to a different understanding of those people who are protecting. I think that in Slovenia it is necessary to make sure that it is at least welcome and that, on the basis of its belief, it will be able to contribute to the development of this society without anyone asking him what he has back there, what the old father thought or what he himself thinks. Indeed, we support this ratification because we consider it a part - now after such a delay - already part of the psychopolitical Slovenian hygiene.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests. For the first time, the Slovenians met with Christianity in the middle of the 8th century, when the baptism of our ancestors of Quarantine began. In 1745, Quarantine Prince Borut decided on the Christian faith that he had received the necessary help to defend himself against eagles. Borut's son Gorazd and his nephew Hotimir were baptized as Bavarian hostages and ruled Borut. During that time, Quarantine accepted Christianity in its entirety. Throughout the centuries that followed, our people, especially in the 19th century, were established into a modern European nation during the period of the nation's awakening. During this period, he was consumed with Christian, Catholic, and Protestant ethos. The language of politics of the 20th century was based on Slovenian in relation to Christianity, so most of the events must be seen through the prism of the attitude towards Christianity. With this brief introduction, we can explain the fundamental reasons for the lack of political consensus for the adoption of an agreement in the 1990s to regulate the legal position of the Catholic Church in Slovenia. After 13 years of international recognition of Slovenia, where the Holy Headquarters played an important role, and almost five years after the formal start of negotiations, we have before us a document that is acceptable to both sides. The Constitutional Court also gave its opinion. In the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia we estimate that the adoption of this agreement is useful, of course, with strict respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular the provisions which say that the State and the religious communities are separate. We understand this by not being able to identify the state with just one religion, so it cannot be linked to the views of just one of them. The country can develop primarily those civic values that enable people to live together with different religious values. So we are for religious pluralism because all religions are in equal standing. This also imposes on us our previously mentioned historical tradition. We are therefore convinced that the Republic of Slovenia did the right thing when it began the process of regulating legal issues with religious communities, the first of which was signed with the Evangelical Church in January 2000, which is also based on the separation of the Church from the State. In this regard, we welcome the proposal to regulate the legal status of the Catholic Church in Slovenia and the relationship of the Republic of Slovenia with the Holy See, taking into account the interpretation decision issued by the Constitutional Court. In addition, in our Group of Members, we believe that the first paragraph of Article 2 of the proposal for an agreement can be misunderstood as it can be seen as a recognition of the legal personality of the Catholic Church. We would point out that, normally, other countries are limited to the recognition of the Holy Office as a legal entity of international law. Finally, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we know how invaluable the contribution of the Catholic Church to the formation and preservation of the Slovenian people, despite some events in history. With the aim of regulating relations and continuing good relations between Slovenia and the Holy See, we will support the proposal of this agreement in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u65	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Constitutional Opinion of the so-called Vatican Agreement was required in the Government by the United List of Social Democrats. She insisted that this agreement could only constitute a confirmation of the current rule of law and the actual position of the Catholic Church in the Republic of Slovenia, that it must be based on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that it must respect the principle of separation between the Church and the State and the equality of all religious communities. Finally, it is not possible to allow any equalization of our legal order with the Canon law. Any ambiguity for the United List in this direction is unacceptable. The requirements of the United List of Social Democrats have proved to be justified in the assessment process. The Constitutional Court finds that the Vatican Agreement allows for a variety of interpretations, particularly with regard to so-called mixed cases. Since the Roman Catholic Church values church law over secular law, I could therefore quote: "the principle of independence and independence is understood and enforced by the Catholic Church in all matters falling within God's law, where, according to the views of the Roman Catholic Church, the so-called mixed matters also belong to so-called mixed matters, independent and independent of state regulation." End of quote. In its assessment of Article 1 of the Agreement, the Constitutional Court therefore concluded that the text of this provision alone does not provide a clear answer to the question of how it should be interpreted, which required its interpretation to determine its purpose. It stated that Article 1 of the Agreement is constitutionally permissible only if it is explained that the Catholic Church will respect its legal order in its operation in the Republic of Slovenia. The constitutionally consistent interpretation of Article 1 of the Agreement is also the basis for assessing the conformity of the other Articles. However, the decision of the Constitutional Court and its interpretation are binding solely on the Slovenian state authorities; they have no effect in the international field. Therefore, the Vatican can interpret the agreement in another way, in a manner contrary to the Slovenian Constitution. This may lead to a disagreement between the parties. Therefore, since the text of the agreement can be interpreted in different ways, the Constitutional Court has established its compulsory interpretation. Since the rule of law requires that all the rules, including international treaties, are clear and unequivocal, it could also establish its non-constitutional nature. However, the assessment of this was left to the National Assembly. And that is why we are concerned about the often simplified and inaccurate decision of the Constitutional Court in public. It is often stated that the Constitutional Court has decided that the agreement is not inconsistent with the Constitution, ceases and is silent that it has said that it is not incompatible with the Constitution only if it is also applicable to mixed matters of our legal system. So whoever does not want to explain and say this actually hides the true content of the decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as the true content of the Vatican Agreement. We don't think that's right. Finally, we are also concerned about the reactions of the Roman Catholic Church, which does not accept in good faith some of the concerns that diminish the importance of the interpretation statement by the Constitutional Court and at the same time points out what it wants to do differently and better for its position. This, in view of the political majority, which may no longer be an important democratic value to the 7th Article of the Constitution, can mean in many mixed areas - education and the requirements of belief are only one of the most pronounced demands of the Roman Catholic Church over laity society and the constitutional design of our country. This is also indicated by the views of the parties, which are being politicised and accused of every thought against the forecasting of the country. Such a course is neither European nor democratic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished Excellency of the Holy Headquarters and the Roman Catholic Church on the balcony! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that, after more than five years of efforts, the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See on legal issues will finally be adopted, confirmed in this National Assembly. The Slovenian Democratic Party has never questioned the constitutionality of this Agreement. We firmly believe that the ratification of this law represents normalisation, regulation in interstate relations, relations of the Republic of Slovenia, and at the same time means a derogation from the unacceptable interpretations of the principle of separation of the Church from a country which, on the basis of the dormatic views, imposed by certain political forces and through the conscientious indoctrination of charitable citizens tried to enforce surviving undemocratic patterns, relations between the State and the Church. The agreement clearly places the legal position of the Catholic Church, expresses respect for the independence, autonomy of the Catholic Church with regard to internal regulation, while, of course, all other aspects are governed by the validity and primacy of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This relationship, which has been the subject of unnecessary and harmful delay by some political forces, has received a final reply in a decision or the opinion of the Constitutional Court, stating that the agreement is not in breach of the Constitution, but also eliminating doubts as to the constitutionality of the agreement concluded. As I have already mentioned, we have never questioned the compatibility of this agreement with the Constitution in our party. This decision has demonstrated all the futility and dogma of the attempts of those political forces that have tried, on a case-by-case basis, to reject the democratic way of regulating the situation of religious communities, their equality, their freedom of action and the exercise of the fundamental human rights associated with freedom of religion in general. The decision also showed that there was nothing wrong with the accession of the negotiating groups. This is all the more clearly demonstrated today by the undemocratic and dogmatic conduct of individuals and representatives of political parties who have read the agreement to give primate power over the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Such an observation in the event of being confirmed in a constitutional court would mean that the government has gone into treason. This great betrayal was evident to the government by the political heirs of those political forces, who in practice have often exercised the primacy of revolutionary Soviet law over the country's written national legal order, which has not yet been democratic This primacy of revolutionary law has proved to be the most evident through Stalin's long-standing prosecutor Visinski, who has reflected in many mounted processes in Slovenia with tragic consequences. The conduct of the political heirs of such a view of the right to freedom of religion and the principle of separation of the Church from the country then Prime Minister, today the President of the State, Mr Drnovšek, has referred to as the conduct of Bolsheviks who, in international law, are willing to respect only what is appropriate to them. The fact that these individuals and political forces in these negotiations have shown a miserable legal and political culture by publishing a draft agreement bearing the marks of State secrecy. That's an indisputable fact. This is, of course, a criminal offence, which has not been sanctioned and, together, of course, is a lack of respect for the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that the Constitutional Court, which has been so carefully staffed, has not succumbed to great political pressure, although it has not been necessary to delay for just two years. Despite the possible conflict of interpretation statement with the Vienna Convention, we hope that the Holy See will ratify this agreement quickly and thus make the most of such practice in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Social Democratic Party, we hope that the sentiments of the Slovenian country and the intolerance of the believers expressed in the preparation of the agreement with the Holy Headquarters are the last remaining and the last pruning of Stalinism in Slovenia. At the end of the ratification of this Agreement, reference should be made to the importance of the Catholic Church to Slovenia, since it is in strong relation to the national identity of Slovenians and is part of its general, cultural and national heritage. However, we must not forget the extraordinary thanks of the Vatican and the Catholic Church for the international recognition of Slovenia. So we see the agreement as an agreement that will normalize the international relations of the Republic of Slovenia, which means part of the emancipation of Slovenia, part of the European placement of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also a great credit to the Catholic Church in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Levič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u69	Thank you very much. In the Young Slovenia Party, we have closely monitored the developments in the writing and conclusion of the agreement that we are discussing today. This is an important content that can have a strong impact on future generations, as well as on the new dimensions of cooperation between Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters. That is why we have been detained in the Young Slovenia Party until the agreement is ratified. We believe that in modern, democratic societies, including Slovenia, such agreements with the Catholic Church are not necessary as one of many religious communities. Slovenia recognises and respects religious freedom and already recognises autonomy to all religious communities for matters relating to their internal order, order and operation. This is true also in the case of the Catholic Church, and it would be fine if this were true for all other religious communities. Apparently, quite a lot of you believe that a special agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters is needed. We do not belong to this group in the Party of Young Slovenia, because we do not want politics and coercion in the very personal sphere to which religion certainly belongs. Church, Canon law is understood as some kind of rules of procedure of the Catholic Church, which has the constitutional right to regulate its internal affairs autonomously within the legal and constitutional system of the Republic of Slovenia when it operates in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's right. On the other hand, the agreement was written extensively, which convinced us in the Party of Youth Slovenia that the support of an act which allows a foreign country to participate actively in social events in Slovenia without the judgment of the Constitutional Court is not in place. The opinion of the Constitutional Court confirmed the reasonableness of the concerns in the Party of Youth Slovenia about the signing of the so-called Vatican Agreement. It is only now that the Constitutional Court, with an interpretation opinion, has protected and confirmed the actual primacy of the Slovenian legal order against canon law in the Republic of Slovenia. This was done by the Constitutional Court with its binding interpretation. This is not clearly stated in the agreement. It is clear that the signed agreement is ambiguous and can also be read to the detriment of Slovenia and its legal order, which we are and will oppose in order to protect the equality of all citizens in the Party of Youth Slovenia. Slovenia is the country of all citizens and citizens living in the third millennium. These two facts were slightly forgotten by the negotiators who represented the Republic of Slovenia in the negotiations with the church party. The Constitutional Court has ruled that the agreement is not unconstitutional, but only to the extent that we interpret it in accordance with the broad opinion of the Constitutional Court. In spite of this fact in the Party of Young Slovenia, we doubt that it is in the interest of the citizens of Slovenia to provide for Article 14 of the Agreement, which allows the Council to request an agreement on the resolution of issues concerning the Catholic Church, with which the State of Slovenia may not have and cannot have anything. The agreement is under-definition and allows for too much interpretation. And without an interpretation of the Constitutional Court, according to the Young Slovenia Party, it is not acceptable. In view of the fact that this is the only ratification whose mandatory annex should be the decision and the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which is not the case, there is no support in the Party of Youth of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u71	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the agreement with the Holy Headquarters. And we'd be happy to support him. The decision or opinion of the Constitutional Court, in our opinion, in depth and extensively substantiates and interprets the relationship between the State and the Church, as follows from the constitutional position of the religious communities in the Republic of Slovenia. The opinion of the Constitutional Court in our opinion also removes any doubts as to the constitutionality of this Agreement and allows the procedure to continue in ratification. Here I would like to say that there has been no doubt about the constitutionality of the agreement both with the government itself, and in particular with the two negotiating groups or with the Ministers of the Slovenian People's Party in both the previous and the current government. Both Minister Marušič and Bizjak, who were active creators of these negotiating groups, never represented the position that there could be a constitutional dispute. Both sides, both governmental and other parties, on the side of the Holy Headquarters, understood the provisions of the Agreement in the same way as the Constitutional Court had now given it by its interpretation. During the negotiations, the question did not arise of any exemption from the Roman Catholic Church from the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, but merely the concern of the Roman Catholic Church that the State, by its legislation, would not interfere with the areas which the Church considers to be its sole presumption, if I mention liturgy or religious rituals, and that it would not have prevented its operation by restrictive legislation, as was unfortunately the case in the previous political regime. It is only in this context that we can understand the mention of respect for the independence and autonomy of the Catholic Church, but only with regard to its internal order and freedom of worship and not, as has sometimes been tried to inspire, in terms of independence from the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the Constitutional Court, in its comprehensive and very in-depth decision, has made this distinction very clear and that it will not be difficult to respect either the State or the Slovenian Church. As has already been said, the Catholic Church in Slovenia is part of religious, cultural and national history. In many ways, it is this religious community that we owe the Slovenians to stand on these premises and to develop our nationality and to form our country. In particular, the work of Catholic priests in so-called border areas should be highlighted, as they were often the only advocate of Slovenian culture. When a certain religious community regulates its relations, this religious community must take into account the way it is. The Catholic Church is a single institution and it is also legally regulated and regulated by Canon law. It is governed by internal church law, which also determines who in this church is responsible for negotiating with a particular body of international law, such as the State. Although it is within individual countries for the partial churches that are part of the universal Catholic Church, it is the responsibility of the apostolic seat to regulate their status in accordance with the internal arrangement of the Catholic Church. The way in which relations between the Catholic Church and the State were formed in certain historical developments. These ways, endorsed by various international conventions, respect all those countries in the world that promote human rights and thus freedom of expression of faith. Thus, in the past, the State has concluded concordants or other forms of international treaties with the apostolic headquarters to regulate the situation of a particular part of the Church within the borders of a particular State. This practice is also practised in modern times, either to conclude new international treaties or to update those concluded with the Catholic Church in the past. Examples include Croatia, Italy, Spain, Poland. The new State of the Republic of Slovenia recognised the apostolic seat among the first to be the subject of international law and because this does not happen very often, in order to make the apostolic seat among the first to be recognised by a new body of international law, this was significant for other countries and entities of international law and helped to facilitate the entry into force of the Slovenian State in the international space. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already stated in the past that the Catholic Church is in Slovenia with its operation for the good of the nation. This is evident from her work in the religious, cultural, national and value fields at all. Its position should therefore be regulated in accordance with the banners used in the world. The Constitutional Court has also stated that the Vatican Agreement is not contrary to the Constitution. The very content of the interpretation added does not, in essence, provide any other than a well-intentioned interpretation of the content of the agreement, which is the way of interpretation in international treaties. However, the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, which has been added, can be problematic only if, contrary to the Vienna Convention on International Treaties, Article 19, at least indirectly binds the opposite party, this is the apostolic seat, with such interpretation as the Constitutional Court has issued. There is, therefore, an initial international inadmissibility, which is not problematic in this case, as it is added to the interpretation, in the spirit of the intentions of both parties in the drafting of the text of the agreement. We will be happy to support him in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u73	Dear government officials, Vice President! On the home committee, one of the Members said that we had a constitutional judgement, and I quote "the Gospel". That's a happy message, and now the agreement will go through the procedure. The views of the Constitutional Court may indeed mean revelation or a revelation to anyone, regardless of the fact that some believe that the agreement should merely apply the rules and principles of the Constitution, which should not make it questionable and uncontested in any way to our constitutional order. And when the government signed the agreement in December 2001 and a lot of concerns and doubts about it were triggered, it was even heard why we needed it if it was standardising something that was already standardised. Why, then, do we write down something that has already been given and is alive? So the right for the Catholic Church to operate freely in Slovenia, under its law and - but - in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. So it can establish foundations, associations, it has the right to inform, mediate, consume, dispose of property, to exercise its activities in hospitals, homes, in the military, in homes for elderly citizens, in prisons, to establish private schools, students and student homes, private, to carry out charitable activities etc., etc.; but strictly in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. Despite seemingly simple and clear matter, however, a number of legal and other issues have been raised that have raised legitimate doubts. In fact, he has already raised doubts in article 14 of the agreement, which he has already counted, and I quote: "On possible differences that could arise in the interpretation or application of the provisions of the agreement," and for them he also envisaged an agreed solution through diplomatic channels. This article also relied on other open issues that both signatories are expected to resolve in agreement. In short, he has also opened up the possibility of a new relationship that may arise beyond what the agreement states and which can only bring life. It is logical, therefore, that a number of interpretations and questions have arisen, whether this is the first time that the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the Canon law has been levelled, and the second time, in particular, whether such a document constitutes an unequal treatment of different religious communities in our country. And at this point, the evangelists were called to judgment, as our Member would have said. So, the interpreters, who are supposed to say whether there is any doubt about the legitimacy of such a saying and what the interpreters are, this is what the Constitutional Court is saying, find out - I will not repeat, but, among other things, that the state does not favour or discriminate against any religious community and that everything in its field is autonomous and autonomous. There is no irregular relationship between the Canon law and the laundry order of Slovenia, that there is no dispute over the establishment and management of schools of students and students and other educational and educational institutions, but only in the form of a private nature. And in Slovenia there are private Catholic schools co-financed by the state. The agreement, in the view of the Constitutional Court, does not therefore open up any other option. Furthermore, all solutions to other possible issues outside this Agreement are absolutely dependent on our constitutional order. Therefore, anyone facing future implementation or coordination of possible differences and open issues will have to refer to and take into account the legislative opinion. Moreover, the Constitutional Court states that there will be no consensus, unless there is consensus, that disagreements and different understandings of the content be clarified by means of the interpretation provisions of the Constitution; and these are mandatory. Even for those who may not like it and who seem to be interpreting the Constitutional Court, I quote, "questionable or relevant only for one party, but not for the Church," because it was also said that the Constitutional Court in this case was disputed and mocked. I will briefly conclude, if this means that an open path is for possible surplus and a new agreement, let us remind him that the 20-page opinion is an extremely well-formed opinion binding and insists only on one, on the country's separateness from religious communities. However, the separation does not limit the cooperation of one and the exclusion of communication. In short, we are a multicultural and multireligious society [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We support negotiations with all religious communities in the LDS and, in the light of the constitutional verdict, we also agree with it. [[...]] We are in favour of supporting such an agreement with the evangelicals because the agreement on the legal situation of the Evangelical Church in the Republic of Slovenia was never disputed, as was the case with Muslims who must enjoy the same rights as others. In short, the Holy Office has diplomatic relations with 174 countries and, by signing this Agreement, relations between Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters will be more appropriate and will be supported by the LDS in this light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich, for calming down. However, allow me to clarify the position of the Slovenian National Party on the proposal for today's hearing. On the basis of our assessment, it is necessary to point out the first and the main issue, namely that the opinion or decision of the Constitutional Court can be read in a different way than you have read and understood in most other parliamentary groups or political parties. According to our assessment, it is possible to observe through the Constitutional Court's decision that, in the case of a proposal for an agreement, of course, it is a legally inadmissible agreement and that, according to our assessment, it is equally important, as well as for the substantively unnecessary agreement imposed on our people in this country with a view to establishing a stronger religious community and thus, of course, neglecting other religious communities. In the Slovenian National Party we believe in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and we would like you to believe in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that is, other Members and Members. The fact is that Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that the State and religious groups are separate, and by no means does the Constitution say that we have to selectively monitor individual religious groups and that the State or Government must be more favourable to individual religious groups or less inclined to them. The fact is, the Constitution speaks of the separation of the State from the Church. And it is for all past, present and, of course, future relationships that will or will be, according to our assessment, are already governed by the Constitution itself. In the agreement itself, as long as we touch on its contents in the National Party, of course, we are missing the following elements, namely, in the general provisions of Article 1 above all, the dictatorship that each State and the Catholic Church are independent and independent in their respective arrangements. According to our assessment, such an agreement concluded by the Republic of Slovenia with a segment or institute is unacceptable. This means that we have left part of the legal primate to a certain institution in our society - and that is contrary. In the Slovenian National Party, we find it completely unacceptable, too, the very diction of Article 2 which, according to our assessment, should be much clearer, where in one sentence it would be said that the Catholic Church is a legal person and subject to Slovenian legislation from A to Z, i.e. payment for compensation for the use of building land and others, whether local taxes or state fees. In the Slovenian National Party, we have, of course, monitored individual articles which, according to our assessment, are indicative, unnecessary, which is even more sad than the fact that they are unnecessary to regulate relations between the State and the Roman Catholic Church. Article 13 also points to the incomprehensible aspirations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the understandable aspirations of the Roman Catholic Church, that is to exclude them from the view or comparative analysis of other religious communities, as regards relief and assistance or other encouraging, encouraging measures. According to our assessment, it is in Article 13 that both the Roman Catholic Church and any other religious community in this area should, of course, be balanced and should not, of course, make such selection and primacy of one of the religious communities, insofar as we respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See does not regulate legal issues, but further blurs them out. We also assess that the opinion of the Constitutional Court is in this direction or that its content reflects the opinion of the Slovenian National Party - at least this time. However, we are convinced that the agreement in its content is missing one of the most important substantive issues, which is the issue of funding. We also assess that this issue has been deliberately omitted. And for conclusions. We will not support the proposed agreement in the Slovenian National Party. We sincerely hope that the agreement will not receive sufficient support in this National Assembly and thus allow for a quality and comprehensive debate, which will be the basis only in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, I stress that we respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Party, so we will not support the proposal for an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the Group of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the discussion on articles and amendments is not possible. Third reading, this is a decision on the bill, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, which I will present to you below, we will take place today in the framework of the vote after the closing of the debate on the 12th item of the agenda, which is at 8:40 p.m. I hereby interrupt this item of the agenda and allow me to introduce you also to the temporary course of this session. You will also get on the bench a timer that is being prepared and which, of course, for reasonable reasons today could not be prepared in the morning. At 12.35 we will begin the hearing of the 16th item, I apologize, at 1:30 p.m., this is immediately now, we will begin the consideration of the 8th item of the agenda, at 4:00 p.m. by 9 p.m., at 6:25 p.m. by 11 p.m. and by 12 p.m. by 18.55 p.m. and 20.40 p.m. by vote. The timer shall be prepared in accordance with the notified time. There's a vote at 8:40. I'm sorry. At the beginning, I said the point we've already done. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the embellishment of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with Mr Rudolf Mohet, the first to be signed. I give the floor to Mr Mohet, a representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In Slovenia, the situation in the area of the award of schizophrenic decorations is also due to the fact that we have a parallel system of awarding decorations. This is now the case with the Act on the Medal of Honor for the Freedom of the Republic of 1992 as the Act on the Medals of the Republic of Slovenia. That these two laws serve, literally, the law on the embellishment of the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic, by which the recipient of the honorary loop of freedom of the Republic is given, inter alia, for personal courage and self-sacrifice in the salvation and protection of human lives and material goods. If someone did this, they'll get a sign of honor. The law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia states in Article 7, paragraph 6, "for personal courage and self-sacrifice in saving human lives and material goods". And for that, someone gets a medal for an honorable act. So two laws that have the same text, and I don't know who it is to decide whether it gets one medal, and if it gets that, or if it gets another medal, and if it gets another medal, or it gets the first. Therefore, the group of applicants proposed that this situation be abolished, proposed amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted in 1995, which would allow for the award of four orders and three medals in Slovenia. With the amendments we tried to achieve that the President was given only one medal, not more than what the previous law stipulated, we tried to introduce a collection of decorations, but the Laurin Committee with the amendments abolished it. And we have tried to achieve policy unity in the award of decorations. As a result of the provisions of the Act on the Distinguishment of the Honorary Mark of Freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 5(3), it was possible to obtain this honorary mark also for credits in other areas of life and work which are important for the sovereignty and freedom of the Republic of Slovenia. And so it happened that the former President, Mr Milan Kučan, because the law was not harmonised, used this indent of the law and also received an honorary mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia people who should actually receive it under another law, this is the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, over 900 honorary signs were awarded, which in their own way also evaluated this distinction in some way. For this reason, we thought that the law could bring an end to the law on the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, because 900 had already been granted, and then we also achieved it on the Lavrinč Committee unanimously. However, there have been discussions initiated by colleague Petan, which have shown that not all have yet received this honorary mark for the independent merits, even though they should. As an example to point out to Mr Pučnik, a number of Members are suffering from the fact that the parties to which these people belonged or the interested public have not proposed them at all, so it seemed to us that this sign should remain, but this law on the mark narrows down only to those who actually participated in the exercise of independence. To this end, we have also tabled amendments, which is still possible procedurally on the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. From this point of view, I call on the Social Democratic Party to change these amendments in the direction of our amendments, because in a public debate, the representatives of the Social Democratic Party have just advocated the solutions that we are proposing, and they have opposed adopting their amendments to allow the law in such a form to continue to allow their amendments to be accepted in an uncorrected manner, in order to continue to be awarded the honour mark of the free Republic in a manner that, as those who have received it, they would have devalued in some way. Therefore, we offer the proposers' hand to the Social Democratic Party - Slovenian Democratic Party, I apologize, correct - to make it to the beginning [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The business options of these amendments have corrected and thus resolved this legal complication and have achieved the same objective as they have advocated, and the same objective as those of the proponents. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The draft law has been treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body, and I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Frantz Kangler, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u79	I would like to thank you for saying that, given that the speaker also took up the content of the debate that took place on the Committee on Internal Policy on 14.01., I would like to stress, as the proposaler himself said, that two laws were in force in the field of decorations in Slovenia. The law on the embellishment of the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, which is still being implemented. In the transitional provisions, however, it is expressly stipulated that the honour mark of freedom should also continue to be awarded as the highest mark of the Republic of Slovenia for the defence of freedom and the exercise of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. In the light of the legislative and legal comments, the proposer proposed to the committee to adopt proposals for amendments to the Committee, which, in particular, technically improve the proposed legislative text. In the course of the discussion, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia stressed that the arrangements in force in the field of decorations were not appropriate, once again I would like to stress that the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia stressed that the arrangements in force in the field of decorations were not appropriate and therefore they advocate the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions as soon as possible, which would address the uncertainties in the award of the awards. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of Ambassador Majda Zupan and Ambassador Rudolf Petan to Article 11. The Committee proposes amendments to Article 5 to Article 6 to Article 8 to Article 9 and Article 11 to Article 11 and to Article 12a to Article 12, by a new Annex 1, and this proposal for a law has also been adopted by the Committee. As the motioner himself said, we also received today's amendment to the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members. The Committee has not considered it, but given that it is pure content and I think that such an amendment can be given wider political support because it solves, in particular, the complication and dispute that arose in the debate itself at the Committee on Internal Policy in article 11, where some amendments were tabled and were not adopted. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Committee, that some of the amendments proposed by the Committee, which we have also discussed, and we also adopt legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Majda Zupan will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Today is the right day to talk about decorations. The adoption of the instrument ratification law towards the European Union is right to make haste also in the decorations awarded to the most deserving of Slovenia's independence, which in fact represents the greatest step in this direction. The decorations that were introduced in ancient Rome and were an initial sign of a special recognition for bravery in battle, we received in Slovenia in 1992 with a law on decoration, an honorary sign of freedom. This was the first national award that the President of the Republic was expected to give for exceptional merit in defending Slovenia's freedom and perpetuity. The award, which is supposed to represent a symbol of independence over the years because of the number of people, has been received by 900 people, much for non-self-sustaining reasons, so the distributor and medallion have tried, it seems, to do just that for a less important act. It is so sadder that people who have played a key role in the independence and recognition of Slovenia have not received this award. As the need to extend the actions to which the highest state of decoration was to be allocated soon appeared, another law was passed by the National Assembly in 1994. This is a law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia, but it has not actually come to life. No medals have been awarded after him to this day. Why didn't that happen was a big question. Is this because of mere performance flaws? The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed honourable Member Mohet, seeks to ensure that the 1992 law no longer applies, but that the honour mark of freedom remains, but is not granted. Only one type of distinction from another law was to be applied. But we can't get past the questions that are being imposed on us. Is this not an attempt to reduce the importance of our independence and independence? Does not the abolition of the first law also mean the estrangement of this act? Is it true that all who are responsible for the independence of the world have received this award? Self-reliance means the greatest value for our country, so it would be very wrong for the award of the honour mark of freedom to simply remove it as if it were no longer up to date. In our New Slovenia Group, we believe that the honorary mark of freedom must remain and must be given to all those who remain ignored. One of them must be the late Dr. Colonel. Our country did not know whether it wanted to make an appropriate payment to the people who deserved it in the war for Slovenia. Many humble people who in those days had actually exposed their lives were left empty. And one way to make amends is to honor the mark of freedom, which we must retain or properly implement in another law by entering the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be set by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u83	Dear Members. The granting of honours and decorations to deserving nationals and foreign nationals who are responsible for the State is certainly an expression of state sovereignty and belongs to the right vested in the highest representative of the State. This special right, however, gives him a legislative body at the level of the State on behalf of the people. And that is what we want with the law that we are adopting today. The Slovenian Book Language Dictionary defines distinction as recognition for civil and military merit. As we can see, it is the definition of a new origin. Otherwise, its two-year traditions and roots stem from the times, just after the French Revolution, when French Emperor Napelon established the first-class medal of the modern era of the legion of honor. Let me remind you that a year ago a group of friends of the National Assembly with the Republic of France and the French Embassy presented these particular decorations in the lobby of the National Assembly and aroused great interest. Let me mention that the recognition or distinction of the Legion of Honor was presented by the collector of Prof. Rudi Likar from Ljubljana. And it's this medal that the French Republic still gives. Since then, we have been able to follow the rich history of the various and diverse distinctions that have been gathered by all countries. Many of these confessions have a great tradition, have international significance and are highly appreciated. As a result, the recipients of such distinctions are highly respected, given national attention, as well as many privileges. During the period following the French Revolution, to this day European countries have recognized their sovereigns in the nation. The nation is also the one from which all authority comes and sets up a modern - day sovereign or ruler, in our case the President of the Republic, and gives him the right to grant medals. The Slovenian nation established its own country 13 years ago. Although his limited nationality was already recognised in the previous country. The policy of distinctions also took place as commanded by federal law. After independence, we have received two laws that are doubling the policy of granting recognition. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that, after a good decade from which we are an independent country, it is the last time that the concept of policies and criteria for the award of state decorations is fully regulated. In this context, we also support the basic objectives of the proposed law, which are: the awards are awarded by the President of the State, the proposed decorations cover all areas of social life and work, and the possibility of distinguishing foreigners, i.e. persons who are not citizens of our country, have special merit for the Republic of Slovenia. The Special Office of the President of the Republic shall maintain a uniform record of the award of the awards. However, it is right that the home committee has deleted Article 5 of the Act and thus has certainly eliminated the unloved consequences of forging state distinctions in commercial and quasi-gathering purposes, thereby affecting the value of the awards granted and their reputation. It would suggest, however, that by means of a sub-law or an appropriate decision of the Office of State Awards, one sample of each medal should be handed over to the National Museum in Ljubljana, as a central national museum institution that would preserve these medals as symbols of state sovereignty, as well as for study and general purposes. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the draft law, together with the views of the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Majda Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The decorations in each country, in addition to the real and, above all, have a great symbolic value. It is therefore important that changes and innovations are implemented with due consideration, especially those related to the abandonment of current practice. Last year, the rejected draft law, which in many ways had similar objectives and objectives as discussed today, also envisaged some other solutions with consequences that it did not foresee. However, some solutions are quite similar. The amended draft law has taken into account the main comments of the legislative and legal service, which remain within the limits of its powers, and we would therefore like to draw attention to some of the concerns which remain on the Committee's adopted amendments and are being sought to mitigate the additions made to the meeting of the National Assembly. It is understandable that at the same time there can be no two highest medals for similar merit, nor is it impossible to say that it remains the highest for any decoration that is no longer awarded. In doing so, we do not start to judge the date and purpose of the award of each award, as it is also necessary to take into account the dignity of those who have been granted the honorary mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia and who have accepted it with pride. Despite the concerns of the applicants of this law on the impact of the historical moment, which has undoubtedly had an honour mark on the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia in force since 27 March 1993, it is important, if not even a decisive role, that article 1 should be widely interpreted, which states that the distinction is granted for exceptional merit in the defence of freedom and the exercise of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, if we do not bind freedom to just one moment and only one meaning of the word freedom. It can also be relied on under Article 3 of this Act, on its fourth indent, which states that the award of the honour mark of freedom shall be granted for the merits and personal contribution to the establishment, development and strengthening of international relations which contribute to international recognition and, I emphasise, to the exercise of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular to the fifth indent, which states that a distinction is granted to merit in other areas of life and work which are important for the sovereignty and freedom of the Republic of Slovenia. This is confirmed by the last few awards of the honour mark of the Republic of Slovenia. A solution should therefore be sought to eliminate exclusion and ambiguity, and in particular to ensure continuity in the award of State decorations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! We heard earlier that after May 1st, it will be May 2nd, and it is true that after this ceremony and beautiful words we come into our daily lives. And this marriage is one of those. First of all, I would like to point out that the law for the Slovenian Democratic Party is not acceptable and we cannot accept the explanation presented as a reason for the change in legislation in this area. It is not to say that there is an irregular situation in this area and that there is a lack of clarity and dualism, despite the fact that we have two marriages. Other countries also have more than one law in the field of decorations. For our client, it is unacceptable that the sign of freedom is now an inadequate decoration and that it is inconsistent with positive Slovenian legislation. Then something is wrong with Slovenian positive legislation. Even more unacceptable is the written claim in the bill, I quote: "that the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, which has so far been placed as a symbol of independence, has lost its date as such after a decade of independent events." End of quote. Nevertheless, the highest decoration remains, but it is no longer granted. It does not claim that the granting of the mark of freedom no longer makes sense. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to point out that this area is not a dual policy of awarding distinctions due to two laws. The distinctions between marriages and marriages are not the same, but they are completely different. But there's something else that matters. The only law on the honorary mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, which is now being deleted, speaks of the defence of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Abolishing this fact would mean deleting the independence and the people who participated in the liberation process. It would be the last humiliation of the invaders. This erasure has been going on for some time now, and this withdrawal of recognition would only be a mercy shot of independence and of the people involved. Each country has certain values and values. People who have achieved outstanding achievements, which have made an outstanding contribution in these areas, each normal country will repay with recognition, with distinction. In this way, the state symbolically repays these people and thus tells them that it appreciates their work. We have apparently different values in our lives. We're growing a cult, and I'm going to let go of something, especially those who oppose self-sustainment. Apparently, it's worth it to the government. The exceptional credit for the exercise and defence of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia is obviously no longer valuable to us, so we can end it. Self-reliance is not in itself reasonable, the defence of independence is ongoing as long as we have our own country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that not everyone who deserves it has received the highest Slovenian recognition so far, so it needs to be maintained. Of course, it has to be more selective. It's not the law's fault for inflation of confessions and decorations. It was the one who distributed them unselectively. In view of the constant depreciation of independence and of the people who have worked actively on this project, the limited proposal for a law is the last of its kind, and it means annihilation from independence and we do not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're putting in the amendments to keep this medal. Last but not least, without these people today, we would not ratify the Treaty which we ratified just before a good hour ago, the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. There would be no ratification without these people who would like to take something from them by this law. In our party we have proposed amendments and by adopting them we would allow for a solution in the third reading. Of course, if that's what we want. Of course, there is more to the solution. But since I'm running out of time, I'm going to tell you more in a debate for which it's going to take a little longer. We do not support this law in our parliamentary group. In order to solve the problem, however, we will support the amendments for which we, of course, ask our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Young Slovenia Party, we generally agree with the proposaler's intention to regulate the field of state decorations and the distribution of these to deserving individuals and organisations. The arrangements so far are limping, and there is no doubt about it. For almost 10 years, the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia has been in force but is not applicable. The Presidents of the Republic pushed among the regulations and relied on the opinions of the expert committees they had appointed to help themselves. The honor mark of freedom of the Republic of Slovenia is said to have been awarded over 700 times, and in the meantime there have also been returns of the highest medals in the famous Bata sachets due to dissatisfaction with the selection of some medals and many more. The highest medals were reportedly won by a foundry company. Certainly a mix-up in the past, which goes beyond and continues to set up a system stable primarily for all acceptable arrangements in this area. But she's worried about something else. Even in the Party of Youth of Slovenia we understand the proposed amendments to the law as a provision to simplify the number and manner of awarding decorations. However, if the bill is not acceptable to everyone, then something is wrong with it. It is also possible to misinterpret the purpose of the proposed amendments. In the Young Slovenia Party, we ask whether Slovenians will not share again on this topic. For example, those who are for or against self-reliance and the attitude towards these. That's the last thing we need. The independence of Slovenia is the greatest achievement of the Slovenian people and there is no debate and there is no discussion. If we hear that today, here in the National Assembly, in order to erase and disregard this law and vote against the adoption of the proposed law, then we feel that this law cannot be passed and we will join those who oppose the law. In this symbolic area, we need consensus, as with other symbols and more. The adoption of a regulation that is already causing conflict in the future, especially if I may say, in the ideological field, is pointless and inappropriate to adopt. In this case, it is better to keep the situation the way it is and let it shine. The President of the country will also be subject to existing rules. We will therefore only vote in favour of the proposal in the Party of Young Slovenia if we reach consensus on it here in the National Assembly. Otherwise, we will end up voting against it, because we do not want to be bitter about new divisions and misinterpretations with values, which we have seen too much lately. We believe that we do not have to afford to reject or later return medals because they are intended for those who deserve it in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dušan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on decorations proposed by a group of Members from various parliamentary groups, with first-signed colleague Rudolf Mohet. In the LDS Club, we propose a novel proposal because it eliminates the shortcomings of the existing law on decorations and what is most important to the LDS, despite the fact that it will finally be applied in practice on the basis of this amendment. Support for the proposed amendment to the Act on Medals was not unconditional and would not be unconditional, especially with regard to the transitional provision of the novel, which provides for the termination of the Act on the Medal of Honor for the Freedom of the Republic of Slovenia of 1992. In the view of the Club, the cessation of the application of the Act on the Honorary Mark of the Freedom of the Republic of Slovenia and thus the cessation of the award of this award could constitute an evaluation of the award itself, on the one hand, and also an evaluation of the merits of all those who have received in the past the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of their type of merit. In the LDS Club, we believe that only the award of the honour mark of the Republic of Slovenia in some way symbolizes the independence of Slovenia, which shows the very purpose of the legislator, which is enshrined in Article 1 of the 1992 Act on the Honorary Mark of Freedom of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I should like to point out that the proposal by the proposers is not to be interpreted as a removal of independence, at least this interpretation seems incorrect to us. Self-reliance is primarily a process that results in sovereignty. Sovereignty, however, involves independence and independence. We are convinced that today the Republic of Slovenia is an independent and independent country, which means that the Republic of Slovenia is sovereign, which, last but not least, proves today's ratification of the Association Treaty with the European Union. This means, on the other hand, that the process of independence has been completed. In the drafting of this provision, the proponents across the probabilities have overlooked the symbolicity of this issue and are too blind, if I may say so, to one end. This is the removal of the parallel system of two types of decorations, the removal of a vague situation, the confusion which, to say the least, currently exists in this area. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we welcome the decision of the candidates to create an amendment to Article 11 of this Act, which ensures that the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia can be awarded in the future, but only for the sake of the defence of freedom and the exercise of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, or only in relation to acts related to independence. For credits in other areas, credits that increase the reputation and well-being of the Republic of Slovenia will be awarded by virtue of the law on decorations. With this amendment, in the event that the National Assembly approves, the fundamental condition set by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club in its consideration of this novel is met. That is why we will support the law in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. The medals are much older than the French Revolution and Ludvik XIV. He divided them, and when Napoleon arrived, he abolished all the medals of Louis XIV. and introduced his own. Even older, however, the Romans gave their legions the medals they wore on the banners, on the gonfalons, and on their armor or robes. The law is needed and the law is actually coming at the last moment. Let me first turn to the opinions of some that it is not good for certain collections of features specifically marked to be able to be purchased by collectors. This is a test method introduced by other countries. Why? Otherwise, collectors wait for the bearers to die and then pick them up. In this way, museums have nothing, but private collectors and medals disappear. A few medals have thus disappeared from this circulation, and the Committee has decided not to accept them, but we will not accept them. But it's a misunderstanding. A very important change in the law since the basic one we have had, however, is that we have accepted the SDS's suggestion that it also remains applicable to the granting of the mark of freedom. With the amendment to the amendment, we limit this award of the sign of freedom only to those carriers or to those who are actually to be decorated for the actions they have committed in relation to the independence and independence of Slovenia. They will no longer be able to receive these decorations, such as various folklore groups, singing choirs, kindergartens, fire companies and the like. This will put an end to this and therefore I think it makes sense for the Democratic Party of Slovenia to support both the amendment to the amendment and, of course, its own amendments and then the law. All of this is now incorporated into this basic law. We are convinced that it is true that many people who have done enormously for independence have not received medals. And many who were against self-reliance received these medals. Therefore, we consider that the Democratic Party's proposal is smart and we have also taken it into account, of course with one particular point, I would say, only a beautiful correction called an amendment to the amendment. Once again, it is high time to limit the way in which medals have been awarded as before when, in fact, one person has been determining, deciding, confirming and distributing these decorations. By means of a new law, the amendment of the law actually gives us a charter that will regulate these matters to the point of precision and prevent both abuses on the one hand and various atrocities that have crept into the basic law. I think it makes sense to support the law, and despite the fact that some of the political parties do not understand the choice of what it should be like to give medals, nor do they have the chance to be awarded medals or not, I think that the law is important, necessary and must be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will now turn to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the amendment review of 27.1.2004. Before we go to the debate, allow me to provide the following explanation, which the proponents very kindly accepted and offered in terms of resolving their problem to the Slovenian Democratic Party Group: that the articles 11th and 12th, which the Group has the opportunity to amend by the end of the discussion on an individual article, should therefore summarize the proposed amendment to the amendment to the drafters' amendment, which is unfortunately not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and thus summarise the solution, which meant that it was also able to detect from the view of the Group, also constitutes a solution to their dilemmas. If not, the applicants shall have the opportunity to submit both amendments in the third reading only on condition that both SDS members are adopted by Articles 11 and 12. It's a condition. However, I think that in the spirit of the way we work in the European Union, when we offer agreements and partnerships, it is possible, however, to perceive the possibility of an agreement when it comes to the same view of the issue also when there is a time between the representatives of the proposers and the opposition parliamentary group. I therefore inform you that the amendment to the amendment to article 11 of the drafters and also to Article 12 are not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and therefore there is still a solution proposed by the motions to the Group of Members - the possibility of amending the amendment correctly tabled, this is the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. I am now opening the debate on Article 6 and the amendment to this Article tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, noting that it is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 12a under Article 2. Who wants to discuss Article 6 and the amendment to this Article? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All three articles are basically connected, so I'm just going to talk right now, and then I'm not going to be with the others anymore, because it's pointless. I hope there's nothing wrong. In fact, it's the same content and it doesn't make sense to divide it into three things. On behalf of the Group of Members, I have already explained that this solution is not acceptable to us as proposed. That is why we have proposed three amendments, which would be embarrassing or irregular or incorrect, which we have estimated to have arisen, that is to say that we would remove this honorary mark of freedom of the Republic of Slovenia and that is why we have proposed these three amendments. I'd like to say the following. Thank you for saying that, too, that we amendments have submitted in due time. We didn't get any signal that maybe we could do this together or we could do something different. I would also like to say this to say that I would be supported by any amendment, irrespective of the applicants, which will be embarrassed by the abolition of this honourable mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia in this direction in order to remain this mark. Last but not least, that's what most Slovenians think. But there's something else. But we will not save a law based on wrong assumptions. We will support solutions to get rid of this problem, but we will not save the law. And this wrong assumption is this - because this is the basis for these amendments - that the law on decorations, the honorary mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia is inconsistent with Slovenian positive legislation. It's in the state assessment. That's the wrong assumption. The next wrong assumption is that the honorary sign of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, which has now been distributed as a symbol of independence, has lost its momentum after a decade of independent events, etc. This is the second wrong assumption of this law, and that is why we do not intend to save it. We're willing to support solutions to somehow cancel what's written. And the following: the adoption of a new proposal to amend the existing law on decorations is also necessary because the award of the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with at least four indents, and so on, the law on honour marks, is no longer relevant. [[...]] There is no doubt that the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia are indisputable for a long time. That's the wrong assumption. If this is so bad that it is necessary to change the law now, why not eight years ago? And we watched the quiet souls for eight years that this was happening. The next reason why we tabled these amendments is that in 1995, when we passed a law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia, which introduces a completely different distinction from the honour mark, this is an order for extraordinary merit and a medal for the merits of different categories. It is said that they are not intertwined and in this context we will not take over any other amendments. But if they're good enough to solve this, we'll back them up. That's what we're gonna do. If it is possible to accept this amendment of yours to the amendment that it has been in time, we will also support it and we will support it with these three amendments the possibility that in the third reading this law will be corrected in this sense, as I think we have all come together now to keep the mark. In the third reading, we then put this right in peace, not in time contact. Last but not least, this proposal to take over some other amendment for his coming today, Mr Mohe presented it to me an hour or two ago, but today is a time-consuming moment, so I don't know if that's a good thing. If we've waited so long now, we can wait for the third reading. To explain all three of our amendments. We want this sign of freedom of the Republic of Slovenia to be maintained as a credit for independence, and with these three amendments we allow this matter to be settled in peace in the third reading. This can be prepared by the proposer, we will support it in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u97	There's something not true, buddy Rudy, in your speeches. First, you said the wrong thing when we were on that hysterical show in Treny. Look, I read to you, your article was adopted, and then it's written. "Now, I would like to put to the vote an amendment, which would be summarised as a committee to Article 11, as amended by Article 21 is deleted. Who's in? [[Six members.]] Is anyone against it? [[Nobody.]] " So on the committee we agreed to make them. That's what it says here, or it's a lie. Six of them were "for", no one objected. No one objected. So no one was against it. And we have accepted that this article 21 is deleted. President, if you are properly leading this matter, if you are properly guided, we are now talking about the amendment to Article 6 and not all the things behind it, even procedural. I'll touch the first one first. The first is that we propose in the sixth article that the form of decorations, wear and other characteristics of individual decorations be set out in Annex 1, which is an integral part of the law. So if someone wants to change the medal, they have to go into a change of law and have to go through the National Assembly. The old system of the previous law, however, was that there were certain statutes of distinction adopted by the government, which would mean that if we were to delete it and have old statutes of distinction under the old law, any government that came by itself could change these things to its political belief, because we are now talking politically, not about what we would do for the country, but about what we could do for the country. No one objected to this to a large extent at the time. Therefore, I am proposing to this article that the article be deleted and that the statutes remain still the domain of the government, not that they are an integral part of the law, on behalf of the proposer, and that I will also vote against this article in this law, which we have tabled by four Members, when we vote on this article. I'm going to defend that the dictatorship stays the way it is. So much for the amendment to Article 6 of which you opened the debate, I will not talk about another.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Article 6 is under discussion. Would you like a word, Mr. Petan? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u99	Thank you. All I asked was if I could answer it, nothing else, because I said I wouldn't. That's what I'd say. We have proposed three amendments. If the applicants think that the three are too many, you can reject any of them if you can resolve the matter in the third reading as you have proposed in this amendment to an amendment that was not properly tabled. It doesn't bother us. If you think that's the case, do it, you have the majority, we won't argue. But if it's another idealistic thing again, it's a third thing. We demand nothing but what I have said: that the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia be preserved and that it be granted, as you have suggested, for the merit of independence. How are you going to handle this, gentlemen, and we're not going to suggest that. We just said what our purpose is and what we want and ultimately what we demand. It's all yours to do. That's all I'd like to say, if you think the amendment to Article 6 is superfluous or is damaging to your intention, you can vote it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I think it is right to conclude the debate on Article 6. Here you go, Mr. Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u101	We think that if we accepted the amendment of the Social Democratic Party, I have not yet seen the Slovenian Democratic parties in the register, so I use the old name, it would mean that we leave the statutes to the mercy and mercy of the government, but if we reject what the proponents say, this amendment seems important to me that we all go - forms and all the other things if anyone wanted to change - through the national assembly. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. I am opening the debate on Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members to delete this Article. This amendment has a substantive connection with the amendment to Article 12a under number two. Procedural proposal, Mr. Moge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u103	Madam President, you are leading and deciding on how the Rules of Procedure are applied. The National Assembly is already in a number of debates, even recent events have shown that those who advise you and those who sit there can make a wrong decision and then all those who advise the President can also draw conclusions for their opinion. I think procedurally that in the case of article 11, when we have tabled an amendment to the amendment, this is the next situation. The article, which is in the law of our applicants, refers to an article in the 1995 Act on Denominations and says that Article 21 would be deleted there, meaning that the honour mark would be abolished. The motioners say that the amendment to this amendment should be deleted in this law. If it were to be deleted, this means that the honour mark of the Republic of Slovenia in the unaltered text shall be re-established in Article 21 of that Act. However, we have made an amendment to their amendment, namely the text of this article, which we have tabled in order to amend so that the 21st Article of the original law is preserved and only the last part is changed, so that it is preserved, Comrade Petan, which he has tabled, the entire text of Article 21, and we are modifying this whole text of this Article in one part. Before we decide in the evening, it would be extremely good and wise that, even through the business committee, this complication would be resolved in this sense, whether it is possible or not, that no one would later have a headache. It is impossible that if someone makes an amendment to an article, the article is deleted and the other amendment is deleted, but only one part of the text is deleted in this article and replaced by a new amendment that such an amendment is then impossible. Comrade Petan, if we, as proponents of the debate that was, had the opportunity to table amendments, we would then put them in a text such as this. But since the rules of procedure make this impossible, we can only make amendments to the amendment, we used it, and we felt that we had done the right thing. This means that, if this business thing is not possible, it is possible to resolve without further acknowledgment that the Social Democratic Party or the Slovenian Democratic Party, as you wish, will, according to the new one, accept the proposed hand so that these medals can only be given to those who have cooperated with these criticisms with which you have agreed, this procedural complication in this regard would be resolved. But I will insist, President, that this interpretation of yours will be judged by the National Assembly. You claim, even though it is not written here that the amendment is irrelevant, you now claim that this amendment is irrelevant, that we will not decide on it. If I understood these things correctly. Then I'd like to discuss your decision, which is procedural in nature, for the National Assembly to decide. In such a case, it seems to me that you are taking away from us Members all the possibility that whoever writes the article is deleted, no one has the opportunity then more than the bill-maker to make an amendment to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u104	Thank you very much. There's no procedural procedure until we're clear with Mr. Mohet. First of all, Mr. Mogue, I'd like your attention. The new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly no longer provide that the President's decisions on the application of the Rules of Procedure would be assessed by the State Assembly by deciding on or against. The use of the Rules of Procedure at the current meeting of the National Assembly shall be decided by the President. Consulting services is extremely important and I am always grateful to them. I always decide with full responsibility and best behavior. Secondly, in order for the Business Commission to decide on this particular issue now, this can be a concrete issue. My concrete decision, which you will find controversial, subject and initiative to ask the business committee to explain how to deal with such situations, is by no means called upon to judge in a particular case such as today. It gives me the responsibility and the responsibility of the Rules of Procedure. And the next thing I want to say to you. Mr. Mogue, you're right. However, the content that you are presenting is not a substance that you might call an amendment to the amendment, but it is a completely independent amendment, for which, as you have already found, you have missed the deadline for submission. Mr. Mogue, you will have to accept my interpretation of this moment. You can get a different explanation from the business commission below. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an amendment has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to delete the article; it has also been tabled within the time limit. The proposer has the right to submit an amendment to the amendment of an individual Member or a parliamentary group after an extended period of time, but the content of your solution is not an amendment to the amendment, but it is an independent amendment. Since, in this case, Mr Mogue, in order to vote on the National Assembly - the National Assembly has always voted until now, never otherwise, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, first on the amendment to the amendment and then on the basic amendment. What happens in this particular case: if the National Assembly votes first on your amendment to the amendment and accepts it, it is also obliged to vote on the basic amendment. This one is "Member is deleted". Which means that your solution has been adopted and is supposed to be embedded in something that has been deleted. Mr. Mogue, this moment of my mind allows me such a business explanation. This amendment to the amendment is not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am sorry, because of the extremely correct solution you are proposing, which is exactly the same as what the Social Democrats want to achieve - it is not the same, the objective is the same as not wanting to talk to you and the solution until the end of the debate. But that's the problem with others, not me. I am opening a debate on Article 11. I made a point on this subject so that I would not discuss this issue again. Procedural proposal, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u105	I ask because we have already had cases, even on the basis of this Rules of Procedure, that even in this particular case, if paragraph 11 is deleted. I fully agree with your explanation, but here I would like to explain: Is it possible to table an amendment in this case at the third reading at the same Article 11? Since the practice was such, then I do not think that there should be any dilemma, no dilemma whatsoever, that this material, which has actually received broad support, can be resolved in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Rokavec. The article or box is open and allows the possibility to submit an amendment to the third reading. If we are done with procedural issues, I would like to ask and open a debate on Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Mrs. Potter, then Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to discuss the amendment tabled, which offers a solution that I would also like to consider and support, but I think it is necessary to mention in the debate that my starting points for deleting such a decision, which would end the award of the honour mark of freedom, are different from those presented so far by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Therefore, I ask for a little patience while stressing that these are my views, as opposed to what I used to represent as the position of the Group of Members. I understand that the honorary mark of freedom has arisen in specific circumstances at an important historical moment. Therefore, I do not think the number of 900 honour marks awarded seems enormous and I do not think that this value has lost its value. It is, however, for three different degrees of honor, and I justify it by just saying that I understand the act of self-sustainment probably differently than anyone else. I do not understand him as an act of important individuals, but I understand him as a collective act directed by various important personalities, as well as groups of people. That is why I am committed to the fact that I believe that this distinction should continue to be preserved as a possibility of granting it. It also seems to me that we maintain the dignity of those who have received this award for important acts of independence and have also been awarded this medal for another important act which has helped to establish and recognise Slovenia in international relations, as can be seen in Articles 4 and 5 of the 3rd indents. So what I'm trying to say is that the debates were about the honorable sign of freedom, but I wouldn't have thought in the way that decorations and bullets didn't hit the right ones. I'd rather ask myself, my claim is that the awards have been given to the right people. I would ask myself, ‘ Have all those who, according to individual groups or the majority of citizens and nationals of this country, had received them so far? But what do I think about rejecting such a medal, and it is not the subject of this amendment, so I will not discuss it. Of course, it is possible to agree to the thesis so that there is another way to resolve the embarrassment we have experienced. Six members of the Internal Policy Committee expressed their will on the Committee. All of us who were on the board were more than six of us, because there must be more of us if we are to be concluding, but these opportunities to make our decision for or against, we have not taken advantage of. This is now again the subject of the second debate. Let me pull it up. For me, any solution that would allow for the continuation of the award of an honorary mark of freedom would also allow for that claim, which is stated in the introduction, to be the highest recognition or the highest distinction in the country, to be accepted. Everything else is detailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u108	Thank you very much. My friend Mogo has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much. It seems to me that I'm one of those politicians who doesn't act like that if someone throws a brick at him, I throw it back in his head with a double force, but I'm the one who throws a brick at me to at least build a wall, and we do something good for this country. That is why I think the opposition and insistence of fellow Member Rudolph Petan that he does not wish to resolve this procedural divide shows that he insists on his solution given by his amendment. This means that if we accept his amendment, there will be such a legal solution that these distinctions will continue to be inflantoically shared. For us as proponents, the goal was that if we combined one law in 1998 and we did not regulate it, 2003 brought this law together and we have a "steel" in this area again, forgive the expression, I will eat everything we can eat here, and we will make it possible for the proponents to have a consistent law adopted by the public and the legal profession by the third reading. And because of this, my dear fellow Petan, I will not be ashamed to support the amendment that will enable us, the applicants, in the third reading, to achieve the goal that we have set ourselves, and we will probably achieve it. But it seems to me - this is your right, this is also the right of the party - to insist on it, but it shows to me that, in fact, in the matter of matter such as the decorations granted by the State to someone, the greatest passions beat on the customer trenches, it doesn't seem to be worth it, but it is my political assessment. So, I will act in favour of this country so that I will accept your amendment and also your next amendment, but not to agree with it because you're legalizing the old state, but in the third reading I will try to solve this thing the way it is. You, my dear fellow, could simply turn this around in the second reading and thereby demonstrate the goodwill of your party for some compromise in the National Assembly, so that once a compromise can come to a common goal when you see it supported by all those who have spoken now. If you don't, I'll do as I say, and probably my client colleagues. But your gesture, if you agree that these two amendments - which I am now talking about and the next one - would be improved this way, would be that your party agrees that such an exit is correct, but not that it is the right way out, which indicates that everything should remain the same; this means that you would still be dealing with the unregulated area and that you would continue to be able to give honours to those who would probably not be good enough to get them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. I would like - well, I will try to be as polite as possible - to protest a little when it comes to me and the Slovenian Democratic Party to insist. We do not insist on anything, because we have not brought the matter into this situation, we have not proposed this law, which may be well-meaning - I do not deny it - but the implementation was such that we have found that even the Slovenian public does not accept it. Well, we don't insist. We have seen this law - now, if something is wrong, I can say that it could have been as a replica, but it can also be as a debate because we have declared enough time; that there would be nothing wrong. But what I'd like to say is that when we saw this law, certain things were unacceptable to us - I've already explained which. We and our amendments tried to put an end to this; and we did. This was our legitimate option, and we took advantage of it. But I said that the things that we think are fundamentally wrong - and I told you what this law is on the wrong assumption, I read it and I will not do it again - so we will not solve this law in such a way as to take over the amendments at any cost from someone else. But we will support good solutions, and that's what I said. So do not tell us that we want to continue to have an inflationary award of our awards. If they were given to me, the composition of the medallion would probably be different, certainly, probably smaller. That's what I can call it. If anyone has done something wrong, it is he who, by this law or by this law, has given the highest confessions that he is guilty of. So please don't tell us that we're still engaged in inflation and that we're stubborn. And in the end, what I'd like to say is this. If there is a possible solution in the third reading, yes, why should we now take on a solution that we didn't even expect to have to because it came suddenly. We have found that perhaps the whole law was brought into the process too quickly and too poorly examined. Now let's go back on our noses - if we have a third reading time! And as far as I have understood the Chairman and the representative who helps her interpret the Rules of Procedure - I think I just said for both of us not to humiliate anyone, let's say that this is possible in the third reading. The proponents have an elegant opportunity to solve this third reading. And if you put it under the solutions that I told you were right for us, we will also support such an amendment. Don't worry, you'll take that, I don't know, glory of this marriage, but we'll support it. It's not about fame, it's just about the solutions and content of this law. That's what this is about. Therefore, we do not want to take any such amendments from others. But we'll support others if they're good. It's nothing to be ashamed of, and we're not ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u112	Thank you very much. In order of course, as you have declared yourself to be: Mr Rokavec, Mr Moge, Mrs Shirca, Mr Jelinčič Nobleni. Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. I believe that it is probably possible to come up with a solution that will actually satisfy most of this House. However, I believe that perhaps the approach to resolving this law was a little fast. The fact is that the honorary sign of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, this has been found today more or less already - has been evaluated in its way and purpose in the past. However, it was not actually fully exploited for the purposes and people who actually fought and sought the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, there were no criteria either, and in fact such inflationary distribution could have occurred, particularly during the time of the mandate of the former President of the Republic, to persons, including persons who had little or no independence from the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, individuals and respectable persons are both at home and also around the world, who do not yet have this sign and deserve to actually get it, so that we can actually increase our country's reputation in the world, even in the way that these people, not to mention them, have already been given this unique distinction. Therefore, I believe that, at this point, the only possible solution, without any evidence of one or the other, is probably just that amendments are being tabled at the third reading, which will also be able to implement this objective, which is actually expressed in the majority of this Chamber. But I do have one comment. Even in this amendment, which is offered to Article 11, but is not actually the subject of an amendment, I do not think that the words, which can exceptionally also be given this honour mark, are correct for the time in which we are. And I don't think those words are necessary. This can, of course, be granted explicitly only for the purposes, as well as for the proposing of this amendment, which is currently not up to date, you propose, of course, to persons who are in fact marked by the merits of the defence, freedom and exercise of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, by acts related to the exercise of independence. In this way, it is in fact significantly more clearly defined what allocation means and the criteria for awarding this remarkable distinction to deserving persons. In general, I believe that the second intention of the applicants is indeed appropriate to create more order in this area. This, I believe, is a positive act, but I regret that it was only a quick introductory thought, certainly an introductory thought, that we would no longer need an honorary sign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I am also not the only Member who thinks that the only difference between God and the Member is that God does not imagine himself to be a Member. And when we entered into marriage, it is clear that this law has mistakes and that it is not God’s work. And that's why we're all here to co-create the law. And we were glad that colleague Petan was involved in this co-forming of the law, and we also tried to incorporate his intentions and what you gave in the public debate with this addition into this law. I was just, my friend Petan, offering your client a gentlemen's agreement. If you don't want to accept it, it's your business. We are both here long enough in Parliament to know how sheep are cut, and I have a perfectly clear path, given what Mr Rokavec said - Mr Jelinčič is an expert in medals, Mrs Majda Potter and all the other discussers - that in the third reading we will try to get someone, when the drafters of the law are essentially unable to submit, and that these amendments will then see the light of the world. There was nothing but that I offered you a gentlemen's gesture that you could accept. If you don't want to, you don't want to. I'm just going to put my teeth together to vote for the amendments that will set up the previous situation, and then I'm going to be very happy to table my amendments. That's why it's about nothing else. So, the solution is before us, and I also said that I would look forward to this solution, that I would not be against the amendment you tabled, and that we would fall and then, in the end, we would have only a decision on the law, which would completely destroy the honour mark. I'm not going into this. I will take this initiative and I will do as I have said. You know, when it comes to decorating, it's just that one thing is the state honor that someone gets, and the other is how it's defined to this state honor: whether it's returned to it, or whether it's put back in the drawer, as some have said, or whether it's a hallmark of benefit that the state has given him, to achieve political goals in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u117	In this debate it is confirmed somewhere that by expressing praise and positive thoughts we have great problems with Slovenians. Before we know how to expose negative as positive salaries, our virtues, our loved ones, and before that we know how to express praise. The worst part is when awards are attributed to an ideological connotation or their political placement. I think that today, actually, more or less -- those of us here -- we agree on the solutions to which we are trying to do this, and that we are united here. Of course, until the moment when he does not speak the suppressed thought which was now with you, Mr Petan, is a bit problematic, and then put on his head but some claims. You say, Mr. Petan, "if we were to distribute, the recipients would be different, there would be fewer." That means there can never be a consensus on that. Medals are symbolic praises, there are other rumours, replacing what some material gratification can never give because it is an honor. And we Slovenians also have a lot of problems, and somehow we don't appreciate ourselves enough and we still don't appreciate each other, even if he's still alive. Therefore, before today and before this discussion, certain disqualifications have been expressed that are painful, and imagine a recipient when he hears doubts about the very institution of a medal, then clearly - I hope that he does not begin to doubt himself, but the institution that does. That's why the discredits are severe. I can stress this year that the amendment to the amendment, as it has apparently been incorrectly deposited, will be properly deposited in another form, is better than the original SDS amendment to Article 11, and I will support it, especially because it preserves the word and allows our system to retain the title, which is honorable, and that is freedom. This, in the form proposed by the amendment, binds to a closer understanding - the defence of freedom I think we are still winning, and therefore must remain this spirit, because freedom is accepted in its view, the wider vision of tolerance, the breadth and it must not slip away. Therefore, I hope that the actions referred to in the amendment, which are related to independence, will not be understood narrowly, only [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Defense, but as the constant value of freedom. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Petan was misquoted by Mrs Shirce, so he has the word for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u119	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So why am I answering - because it's not right for me and our client to read something you've figured out for yourself. Look, you're reading my words to me because I said, "if you'd give them to me, there'd be fewer." In the proposal and now on behalf of the proposer, the proposer found that it was inflationary, and it was clear to me that we would continue to strive for the inflationary distribution of these awards. And when I said I probably wouldn't have that many, and now you're reading it to me. So you're jumping into your own words and your colleagues. You've found that it was inflationary, too, but you've found out - and now you're reading to me what you claim to be. And another, like I said, would probably be someone else. Certainly, if it is a proposaler - not my words by the motioner "the honorary mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia has so far been placed as a symbol of independence." Now let's move on. This recognition was also given to those who were public not only once, repeatedly, and even now, and there is nothing wrong with telling them that they were against self - conquest, but then, in particular, they received recognition. That is to say, if the applicant admits that this award was for independence, then I can also find out because it is so written in the law. That is to say, those who have always objected to independence probably - in my logic - are not justified by this recognition. In this context, please take this. But you have found that it was for independence, and on the basis of this, I only point out that those who have not tried to be independent and are still possible today against not being justified - but this is not so important now. The fact is, you're reading me something that you've actually found something wrong with. I actually said that, and now you're reading it to me. I think that's enough. The one who wanted to understand what the basic thought of this replica was, was able to understand anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Petan, that's exactly what you're talking about. And that is exactly what we would like to avoid in order to allow you to take over the amendment of the proponents. And by taking over the amendment of the motioners, the whole matter would be resolved in a moment without complications, without further discussion, and the matter would be resolved as it is by year, and as it is for us, the applicants, after year. I, too, agree that people, certain people, these decorations, which they certainly didn't deserve, certainly didn't deserve. And let's avoid that. However, in this way, if we simply vote to delete Article 21, then the possibility will open up for such people who have no right and who have been against independence to receive the same distinctions. With this, you are opening up this possibility, which would also be closed to me by this amendment to an amendment that the chairman refuses to comply with and refuses to take. However, the fact is that if it happens by chance that someone else will be sitting up there next time and that they will otherwise interpret what the President has interpreted today, something else will happen and we will be back on the same page. For it is not said that all the chairpersons interpret equally and equally understand the rules of procedure. That's it! For what the President said today is not relevant and is not binding on the next President. That's the problem! And that's why it makes sense for you to take these amendments to the amendment and submit them as your own. This would avoid us, for otherwise we will come back to where we were. And they're going to be able to get different people again -- not to name them, because we both know how many people there are and who those people are and what they've been doing. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I can, I don't have time because I only have five minutes. [[...]] Here I have a list of award winners and I can read them quite a bit, say, what do I know, one just like: Mr. Cyril Zląbet, say. Like one of those guys who didn't deserve that medal. We know why, but we're not going to get into this. But these are the facts. And to avoid it, Mr. Petan, it would make sense for you to do so. That would make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Just for an explanation, Mr. Jelinčič the Noble. In the same legal and factual situation so far, interpretations have been exactly the same in this national assembly. And we'll try to keep it that way. In order, first the replica, Mr Petan, then Mr Tuckati and Mrs Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u123	Thank you. Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. I understand Mr. Jelinčič's concern. We're here on this, but I would say so anyway, because we're going to have to have a third reading anyway, and it doesn't matter if we have one amendment or no amendment. It's just that the procedure is running normally. However, in the third reading, we will resolve the matter in such a way that there will be no problem, and I think he has already ordered it on behalf of the proposaler Mr Moja. We'll support it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. There is quite a few debates here, but I don't think there is a proper basis in the facts. In fact, it must first be realized that inflation - this award or the honorable sign of freedom - has been consumed by inflation and not by law. Not because the law is too precise: to whom, when, under what circumstances, and so forth. The law can further detail all these matters if the grantor does not feel the value of freedom and understands the purpose of the law, the content of the law - it is all for nothing. He will grant them, he will give an honorary sign of freedom to those who have nothing to do with the freedom they have freed, who are responsible for another regime, some other system, some other time. And that's how it happened. That's how it happened! We can't defend such acts with the law. This is the fate of those who choose such people in politics. Therefore also the amendment by Mr Petan or our group to delete and preserve the possibility of granting an honorary mark of freedom under the same conditions - nothing tragic gentlemen, nothing tragic! Because we hope that someone who can read the content of the law will share these things, and only the heart of the law respects and respects that value. We do not see such a terrible dramatic need to redefinish this otherwise. As a result, we do not see the need to change our amendment. It is true that we could make or propose an amendment to our amendment, but it is also questionable if it were accepted, for an amendment such as ours, to be deleted, seems a little impossible to amend. And that is why it seems to us, on the other hand, that if you find an even better solution not only to maintain the honorable sign of freedom and the possibility of giving as before, and you want to clarify it differently, then Mr Petan will and we will all certainly support such a proposal. I don't see what a tragedy is either. However, let this amendment be tested, if adopted, in the third reading there is a possibility of complementing and similar and the whole thing is in place. If, of course, we understand that this must be preserved - because it is essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I believe that the decision of the President must be respected. She just decides that, and I don't think there's anything wrong with going to the third reading amendment. And I don't think any form of resistance makes sense. She's kind of weird. I would also like to stress, however, with regard to the amendment to article 11, in view of our views, our parliamentary groups, that we believe that in fact some have been overlooked in denouncing that the words "extremely shared for exceptional past merits" do not seem appropriate to me. I myself would suggest that we delete "exceptionally" and that it be sufficient to say the continuation of the sentence, "sharing for exceptional past credits for the defence of freedom and the exercise of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u129	On behalf of the motioners, it won't be wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u130	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u131	Yeah. Look, it seems to me that the SDS amendment is such that it does not reach the goal that they say it should be achieved. And it seems to me that this amendment to the amendment that we have made, is the one that is to this end. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The weight we're all talking about together. That's all. I have said that I will not throw the rifle into the corn, and I will try to bring this law with the proponents to the end to be useful for this country and for these citizens. And that's why I'm going to be very reluctant to support the amendment, which I absolutely disagree with, and this amendment allows me, in the third reading, to be through other channels - not as a bill-maker, because I don't have these options - but I'm going to get to my goal and I'm going to get to the end and these things are just settled. It seems to me, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we have missed an activity we have not discussed. Awards serve not only to honor the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but also to foreigners. They also serve diplomatic representations, including the Presidents of the States, after all, consular representatives and so on. The current regime has caused confusion in this area. After this law on honouring the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia - I will tell the last five recipients who received them: Alexander Kwasniewski, President of Poland, Ion Iliescu, President of Romania, His Majesty Juan Carlos I. de Borbon, King of Spain, Nursultan Nazarbayev, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Doctor Vaira Vike Freiberg, President of the Republic of Latvia, His Majesty King Abdullah bin Al-Hussein and so on. And it seems to me that more than enough is enough to pull together the power to regulate the law, as it should be, first and second. Thus we can, if we come to this in the third reading - and see that the will has come to such solutions, so that, not by virtue of the honouring law of the Republic of Slovenia, it will be possible, but by virtue of the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia, where it is specified in the statutes, how to distribute these awards abroad, and these medals are otherwise marked as the medals we receive, because they go a long way towards diplomatic ways to express politeness, that the Republic of Slovenia in this area also has the opportunity to cooperate equally with all countries in the world in this diplomatic field. And there's something else I'm happy for. When we looked at this law and the medals, we also had a dilemma, or in addition to honoring ourselves to give to those who also accept it - I don't know how to say it, or take a simple cash refund or other benefits. In the Republic of Slovenia, almost all the awards awarded by the country either in the cultural field or in the school area, or in the sports field, have been tied to money. For every such national recognition that a person receives, there is money in the background. And it seems to me that these solutions, which are now in marriage, are such that it is [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] - Well, most of them, but they're mostly about money. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Well, let's leave it in culture if you dared me no, but that kind of distribution also means some other solutions to extraordinary pensions and so on. That's one of the conditions. It seems to me that what we have resolved, without it being just an honor that the state of the individual has shown to the individual that we have also passed a mature examination here. On behalf of the applicants, if I may say so, to all colleagues and colleagues who have tried to improve this law in order for the State of the Republic of Slovenia to have a quality marriage, I sincerely thank and expect that we will have so much power to be able to have a third hearing at the February session, which will then also be co-formed in these two articles. We have talked about one, but they are related The following article is in such a form that we can also be proud of it and that even those who will then receive these medals will bear them with their honor. If we do so, the aim was to propose this law to Mr Jelinčič Trimenite, who is a professor in the field of medals, Franz Kangler of the People's Party and Mr Valentin Pohorc, Vice-President of the National Assembly, achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss again, I conclude the debate and open the debate on the amendment to Article 12a of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which is substantively linked to the amendment to Articles 6 and 11 under Article 2. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I can close the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote after the adjournment of the 12th item of the agenda, which is at 8:40 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. At 4 p.m. we will move on to the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the bill on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Until then, I'm adjourning. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u133	Dear colleagues, we're moving to 9. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE PRINCIPAL PLACE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Mirano Ptræ. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposers to further explain the bill. Mr. Miran Potč has the floor for the opening explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is ready for second reading. In the preparation of the text, local communities, the Ljubljana municipality, the state council, the government and the legal and regulatory service participated in their proposals. We are convinced that, in a thorough debate on the labour market, all the important issues have been cleared up and that most of them have been coordinated. This also shows the fact that amendments have only been tabled under Article 1 of the Act. Most of it is no longer disputed that it is right, even in the case of majority practice in other European countries, to regulate the status of the capital and its specificities in relation to the state authorities in it with a specific law. It is no longer disputed that it must go to a position of order. That the law cannot give the capital any privileges, but that the state cannot impose only tasks and obligations without its own responsibilities on the capital. This must become the content of a mutual agreement when it comes to issues on which only the coordinated functioning of the national authorities and the municipal authorities can ensure jointly coordinated and all the best effects. It is also undeniable that these principles apply to every city and congregation in the country where similar tasks are involved. In most cases, it is no longer disputed that the purpose of the Act is not related to the desire to further increase the concentration of state functions in the main city of the country. It is also clear that this law cannot resolve these issues and ensure even greater deconcentration and decentralisation, or more consistent regional development of Slovenia. We agree that these are issues that remain inadequately regulated in Slovenia and require a solution. But we believe, and with us all who speak of these problems in this law, that this law does not solve them or that we can solve them with it. We have already understood and written Article 1 of the Act in order to make it clear that this law does not establish the seat of the authorities, and therefore we do not increase or decrease the concentration of state authorities in Ljubljana. We have also explained that, consciously in Article 1, we foresee that the seat of an individual body can also be determined by another act, not only by law. Nevertheless, the listing of the state authorities referred to in this Article has encouraged some Members to report to the law that they have prevented the decentralisation, jurisdiction and greater role of other cities and municipalities. Even those individuals who claimed so know that this is not true. However, since the indication of the national authorities in Article 1 is not at all essential and is only provided for in cases, we support the amendment, which leaves out any designation referred to in Article 1. We expect that this will remove the last doubt that this law will in any way increase the political and administrative power of the capital or make it difficult for that power to be reduced. But this is the content of the second debate and other laws. We expect that the release of each statement in Article 1 will also convince fellow Members and Members that, by this law, we do not want and cannot solve the issue of concentration, centralisation, deconcentration, decentralisation, coherent regional development and that we have never wanted to do so by listing these bodies in Ljubljana. Now that they are gone, it will be clear that the seats are decided by the National Assembly and other bodies by law or by other regulations when they are decided upon. We therefore support the text, as proposed by the mother labour body, and the amendment tabled by the LDS delegation from Montenegro and Mrzelovo. We believe that the law in such a text will be the minimum framework that will allow better regulation of the common obligations of the State and of the capital on the issues set out in the law and that it will also contribute to understanding the situation, role and tasks of the country's capital in the system of local self-government without fear, in any way making the situation of other local communities and other municipalities worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u135	Thank you very much for the introductory explanation. The Committee on Internal Policy, as the parent of the labour force, has considered the proposal of the law. The report is to be presented by the chairman of the committee. I'm asking if anyone else has this assignment. Because no, we are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 29th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the Group of Members this time. We are therefore moving on to a debate on the articles on the amendments tabled to the article of the law, which we will guide on the basis of the review of 27.01.2004. In your review of the amendment, you have two amendments to Article 1. The first was submitted by the Slovenian National Party or its parliamentary group and the second LDS Member Club, together with colleague Silva Črnugelj and Jerico Mrzel. I'm opening a debate. He responded to a discussion by his colleague, Saša Peca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u136	Your Honors are here! At the outset, I must express my indignation that there are so few Members and Members of the National Assembly at this time. According to my assessment, according to the Slovenian National Parties, we are still talking about what is an important matter. We are talking about a law that, despite the speaker's speech, legitimizes centralisation in our country, which, despite the aspirations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and, ultimately, the Ministry without a probationary regime - tries, I stress - to legislate some kind of coherent regional development. The tendency of the proposer of this law, which comes from the types of Liberal Democracy and the United List, is exclusively in the establishment of institutions or in the legalisation of institutions in the capital, that is, in Ljubljana. I can agree with the assessment that we need a capital law in our country, but I cannot agree with the fact that such a law would go to the detriment of other, or even local, municipalities in our country. I think that it is the task of all of us, namely, the government on the one hand or the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to try to achieve the most equitable development of our country and that it is also the task of all of us to prevent the institutions from being merely and only in the city of Ljubljana. Slovenia is in fact so small that it can afford and it is imperative that we bring the institutions closer to people and not the other way around. In our country, I believe, we must bring all vital institutions closer to people. It's a state's job, not to try to tie people to institutions. That, unfortunately, is the wrong approach. In the Slovenian National Party, unfortunately, we were the only ones who opposed the Main City Act in the first reading, both the substantive amendments referred to in Article 1 and Article 3. But the fact is that the proposer has clearly demonstrated what his wishes are when he started referring to the headquarters of all the institutions already in Article 1. The fact is that the proposal for a second stage law requires, or law, that in Ljubljana for the first time, all institutions are the legislative branch of authorities; secondly, all institutions of the executive branch of authority; thirdly, all institutions of the judicial branch of authority; and which is as absurd as all three earlier, is that all institutions of international importance are exclusively and only in Ljubljana. In their introduction, the drafters said that the law was in line with local communities at the time of the first meeting. That's not true. The law is not consistent with the municipalities, not with the other 180 and several municipalities in Slovenia. At least the law should be aligned with the city’s municipalities. In view of the fact that the municipalities represent some regional unity or whole, they should be given their consent to that law, especially in view of the content of this law, which legitimizes centralisation. I personally believe that the National Assembly should not accept this, that the National Assembly should agree with the Slovenian National Party's proposal, when we proposed that the agenda should be considered, that the law should be withdrawn from consideration for at least 30 days in order to make a commitment to the mayors of Slovene municipalities, to the inhabitants of Slovene municipalities; in short, to citizens and citizens. But, no! Slovenian policy has supported us with only ten votes. From this we can conclude that the desire of the most ruling politicians, the ruling party, is in favour of centralisation. In Maribor we responded to the proposal for a law on the capital, but not at the initiative of the proposers, as they had argued earlier from the main speakers, but at the initiative of one of the Members. We said the city of Maribor - at least the city council as the highest decision-making body under the law on local self-government - that we give a negative view of this law, that we do not agree with the reincarnation of centralisation, that we want the Republic of Slovenia to be equally developed, that in our country of institutions, either individual ministries or organizations of national importance elsewhere in Slovenia, not only and exclusively in Ljubljana, as proposed by Mr Potrč. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we tried to change the content of the law at the first reading, but unfortunately without success, both on the home working body but also without success. Today, too, we are trying to amend Article 1 by adhering to the appointment of institutions that are fixed solely and exclusively to the city of Ljubljana. Personally, I do not believe that the amendment of the Slovenian National Party will succeed. Unfortunately, I believe that you will succeed in bringing the capital law forward to the next stage of the procedure. But I think we all have to admit that at this point, if we're going to adopt or if you're going to pass a law on the capital, you're going to legitimize centralisation. The decision of the municipality of Maribor and the related decision of the municipality of Celje - both related to disagreement with the content of the law, namely Article 1 which we are trying to amend in the National Party and whose proposal at this stage stated that they require that in Ljubljana as the capital, the seat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the seat of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the seat of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the seat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the seat of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, although we already have it written in a special law, the seat of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and, according to our assessment, the far most controversial, the seat of other state authorities and the organisation of national importance. This means that you have unfortunately forgotten that Slovenia does not consist exclusively of Ljubljana. You also, of course, complemented that area of international activity where you wrote: "In the capital are foreign diplomatic representations and most foreign consulates, international organisations and representatives of international organisations." What does it mean? That's what it means. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr President, I ask you to calm Mrs Purity from the city of Maribor. Thank you. This means that the city of Maribor is no other city, unfortunately, as far as foreign representations would, of course, choose to have their organisations in a different city, they cannot do so. I personally believe that the law is going to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia, to the detriment of equitable development. In particular, if we are looking at the content of the other articles accompanying this law, where Article 3 states that all the performances of events of State importance must also be carried out in the city of Ljubljana. This expansion, or this dictatorship, can be taken very lightly by many. We fear, however, that in practice the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would implement it in such a way as to allow events, sports, cultural and cultural, to be carried out only in the city of Ljubljana, which are of interstate importance. But, of course, the law on the one hand introduces centralisation. On the other hand, the legal content prevents the normal lives of both citizens and citizens of Ljubljana and Ljubljana, in order to increase the rent of apartments, in order to increase the price of housing, and in the final stage to change their living conditions. On the basis of this law, Ljubljana will become the exclusive administrative centre of the law that legitimizes centralisation. Is that what we want? So, on the one hand, that the primary citizens and the citizens living in this town will be dissatisfied, on the other hand, all the other citizens of our country will be dissatisfied, who will realise that the basic purpose of Mr Purchas was to propose purely the legalisation of centralisation. In the Slovenian National Party, we submitted an additional article to the 1st article, which did not receive support in the framework form on the home working body, which states that in Ljubljana there is only and only the seat of the State Council, the National Assembly, the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitutional Court. According to our assessment, this would at least partially reduce the impact and aspirations of proposers after centralisation. But the question is, if that's enough. I appeal - and to the extent that there is sufficient political will after the balanced development of our country - to withdraw the law from the procedure. To try to fully comply with at least the municipal municipalities, if not with other local communities. In addition, let me mention that this country is financed through the state budget by various so-called institutions in charge of the cooperation of local communities between the country. In this case, if we finance them, let us take advantage of them and learn what the aspirations of the other congregations are. I told you, the city of Maribor opposes the proposal of the content of this law. In a broader context, it is also possible to understand the Mayor of Celje. And I believe that all those who have looked at the marriage and who do not bluff about its contents believe that the marriage is not appropriate. At the National Party, we will support the amendment we have proposed. The Main City Act, which is to the detriment of the rest of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the majority part of the Republic of Slovenia, is by no means the case. I appeal to all other Members to support the amendments of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u137	Thank you. Paula Rupar has a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. I will abstain from the arguments already put before me by my colleague Peca, but I will add some other essential matters which disturb me in this law, and I do not mind that Ljubljana is the capital that it has its own law. But, of course, I am against the content of this law, because, in my opinion, it is inconvenient and, as my colleague Peca said, it is also very flawed. I also deeply agree, of course, that all the institutions of this country cannot and are not exclusively reserved for Ljubljana, certainly there are still many or many other provinces or, let's say, a future region wants one of the institutions - I will not say now that this needs to be completely divided or fragmented - but the concerns are fully justified. In particular, I also have Maribor in mind; well, a number of other congregations are quite suitable for building or carrying out administrative matters. I am, of course, disturbed by the definition in Article 4, which refers to spatial and developmental acts that the city authorities, however, are supposed to coordinate with the government, say, state authorities, when it comes to meaning, say, any institution that is not only local but also of national importance. With the adoption of this law, we need to be aware of something: Ljubljana will not only be Ljubljana in this case, the capital will be the legal "last" of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia - in this respect, because, by law and by law, it will be possible to join in the transport, if you want to protect the environment, the use of space in cases where the government expresses its interests, as an equal partner can also join the decisions. But now, of course, the following questions are being asked. Just hypothetical. Let's say Ljubljana City. The Ljubljana Castle is described as a cultural heritage, a state property. The Ljubljana Castle is not only a Ljubljana Castle, of course it is also a matter for all the inhabitants of Slovenia and citizens, which is managed by the state. True, the law speaks of administrative authorities, but hypothetically: does the government then have the right under this law to influence the bottle that will drive, say, the Ljubljana Castle or not? So, in my opinion - yes, because it is a cultural heritage, because it is a matter of state importance. Of course, I can say from this title that under this law he has all the right. Now I have a purely hypothetical interest in whether Ljubljana, or the government, or anyone under its authority can influence, let's say that this plant will not cost 800 to 900 million tolars. This is Mr Slaka's statement for work on 20 January this year - which is, you will not believe, 100 million less than was a gondola from Bohinja to Vogel. One bottle costs almost as much as, say, a gondola on Vogel or almost as much as a new gondola cable from Church to Blood. That's how much you're gonna charge for a bottle that's gonna drive half-frozen people into the castle. Does the government have the right under this law to decide on the cultural heritage of national importance? Or further, as we speak in Article 6 on environmental protection, or rather in Article 4, on spatial acts and development programmes. Does the mayor's right to throw away people, for example, someone completely illegal, so without a legal basis - let's say the mosque will stand somewhere in one field - if there is no appropriate mosque in this case, is the state importance, in this case, if it is all Muslims in this country, or is it purely Ljubljan? [[...]] Does the government have the right here under this law - because you cannot interrupt me - to decide?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u139	However, colleague Rupar [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u140	No, wait, I'm talking about Article 4. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u141	Well, Article 4 is not in the debate. That's why I have to warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u142	Well, good. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u143	We only have an amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u144	So, can someone? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u145	I'm asking you to hold on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u146	The bureaucrat from Ljubljana, whose most precious liquid is a drop of his sweat, for example, affects such decisions as are or are an animal garden. [[...]] [[...]] I've already warned you about the zoo in the first reading. And then I asked everyone to do something to make an animal garden, for example, state importance, so that the government could also decide about an animal garden. Not as it is now that a certain principal has a million and 400,000 gross wages there. Sorry, the "Collect Paper for the Sea Lion" action is also taking place in Tržič! Our children are collecting paper to kill animals there, so that one Mrs. Director might say, in this case, do we have the right to co-decision under this law, say, around such institutions? [[...]] So, it's some kind of marriage you're going to adopt, which is clear to me, but it's not assigned. Excuse me, the capital is becoming the legal capital of all Slovenians. And, of course, I can absolutely argue and also demand that, in such cases as I have now counted, other citizens should also make decisions through the government. Once again, I say that I will not vote on the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u147	Yes, please. Steady Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u148	President, I would like to ask you very much to determine in the course of the meeting that the zoo is the current topic, but not the content of this law. To discuss the law in the second reading, that we have discussed all these things, only Article 1 has been opened. And it would be nice if all the possible demagogies present were at least formally linked to Article 1, because it is possible to do so. But we could be so handy, colleagues and colleagues that we wouldn't talk about other articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u149	Nothing is an abuse of the rules of procedure. We've got a second treatment, if you'll excuse me. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Article 1 and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party to Article 1 on this content can be discussed and nothing else can be said, and the amendment of the LDS Member Club together with Colleague Silva Črnugelj and Jerico Mrzel. [[...]] The contents of these two amendments are in the debate and please avoid, because otherwise I will interrupt another debate. The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u150	First of all, I will remind you, President, that Mr Rupar, of course, spoke of an animal garden which should also have its seat in Ljubljana officially - that is how I understood it. We are talking about different institutions: foreign consulates, international representations, organisations, and I don't know what else. But he was talking about the zoo, that he has a seat in Ljubljana, that I don't see any here, but I'm not going to discuss the zoo, we're going somewhere else. First, it must be said that this amendment tabled by Mr Pece does not speak in terms of - that is, the Slovenian National Party - that this would be any greater decentralisation. It is not clear from this amendment. This is more understood by this amendment that the seat of some institutions is certainly and mandatory in Ljubljana. This does not mean that the seat of other institutions, diplomatic representations and I do not know what else will not be in Ljubljana. For if it is not willing to go elsewhere, then it will not, nor will this amendment prevent this from happening in Ljubljana, because it will not rule out will. So this amendment doesn't say anything about centralisation or decentralisation. Maybe even more cement to make sure it will be in Ljubljana. We cannot now set up a national assembly in Celje, even if the will might be here in this national assembly. Secondly, of course, the centralisation of Ljubljana as the capital, the second amendment, is the seat of the state authorities. This is about a higher degree of centralisation. What is in the basic text, however, is this basic text so that it is possible to "all things and all things". If it's here, if the law doesn't say otherwise. If the will of the National Assembly, or those institutions, or those who would therefore like to lay a legal basis for the establishment of an institution, where I will also have a seat, if it is not willing to be elsewhere, then it will all be in Ljubljana. That's nice. These institutions are in Ljubljana or unless the law provides otherwise - this is nothing. This Article 1 is, in fact, very little predictable, as all others of these 10, with the exception of Article 10, where it is published - in the Official Journal. This law is definitely empty. I thought that investors and proponents would give more content on this, those who would really set a distinction between the city and the country. More tools to solve things. However, so practically there are no instruments, all based on an initiative or other legal basis that we have already adopted in our legislation. The purpose of this law is then only to gain political points. If you succeed, thank God you'll be pleased, but if you don't, nothing will happen. Indeed, the final consequences, no special consequences. The stamp is the only thing besides that 10th article, there are two things. Therefore, you explained that this would be the basis for contractual relations. It is not necessarily for the contractual relations between the State and the City that this is in this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u151	We're at the amendment to Article 1. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The law does not provide for the possibility of the functioning of state authorities, which is described in Article 1 as what will, of course, be in this Ljubljana or what will not be in this Ljubljana. But this relationship should be put in mutual interest and also defined here. That is why, of course, in Ljubljana or in the country, we will not be better off, even if we accept these amendments or if we reject them. In short, these amendments will have no impact on the improvement of the text, just as the law itself will ultimately have no real effect. That's why I think it's more of a waste of time than a useful thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I hope I'm not being procedurally stopped. On the contrary, I think, as some before me, that this law, or this amendment, or such an article, do not impede decentralisation in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that decentralisation in the Republic of Slovenia is completely different, and I also regret that our colleagues are no longer here when we talk about these current things. I will try to explain the causes of centralisation and the economic consequences of this centralisation. The main cause of centralisation in Slovenia is, in my opinion, the country's over-social orientation, and because of the growing need for social transfers on the expenditure side of the state budget, it is increasingly centralising the revenue of the state budget, with a new tax reform, with the reduction of tax burdens on the lowest levels of the municipality, to which it is the main source of funding, about 35%, even with 9 billion tolls of income on the income line, which will lead to the total fiscal centralisation of the country. Thus, the financial capacity of local units mentioned above will lead to a complete dependence on the state centre and thus on the current structure of government, and this article has nothing to do with it. However, the economic consequences of this centralisation are in the following. Centralisation of economic development goes hand in hand with centralisation of economic and political power, concentration of capital, jobs, economic and political power in one place has a negative impact on the relationship between society and the relationship between centrmin and other parts of the country. Over-centralisation has further deepened the development of the differences between Slovenian provinces after independence. As a result of this, strong over-average growth and rapid development is shown by the central region with Ljubljana as the capital, the region being followed to a certain extent by the coastal area and at the same time by regional centres. In the development of backward areas, however, they form more than 70% of Slovenian territory. However, the share of the State budget allocated directly to regional development is falling in real terms from year to year and is lower than the average in European Union countries. In Slovenia, too, major differences in the level of development and quality of life of the people in its various parts threaten to deepen the differences between the regions and, on the other hand, strengthen the resistance to its centre. That's what we're dealing with right now. Ljubljana has always been kind to me. I studied here, I live here for 15 years, and I have to say it's a very good, even an organized and friendly city. Monocentrism also weakens Slovenia and cripples it before it joins the European Union. The unevenly developing country, where the development rate is far the largest in the state centre, and then it drops rapidly, can face severe difficulties in connecting to neighbouring areas in the context of the common European economic market, which we will experience on 1 May. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that Slovenia will have to become even more involved with neighbouring and other Member States of the European Union in the future. All our neighbours, who will be EU members from 1 May, are developing countries with an internal organism, regionalism. Austria has countries, as we know, and is a federally regulated state. Italy and Hungary have regions, but Slovenia will have to replace the lack of internal organisation in different ways, not by this law. In this way, when cross-border cooperation with the activities of the border municipalities is under way, it will always be necessary for the State to help obtain European Union funds.It is clear from the outset that the establishment of the regions would significantly improve competition opportunities for the funds of the European Union's Structural Regional and Other Funds. By doing so, it could replace at least part of the resources that Slovenia will undoubtedly have to spend to establish new provinces. From this point of view, the Republic of Ireland's interesting experience, where regionalisation has been carried out mainly because of the increased possibility of obtaining European Union funds and I do not know why we should not have done the same. An example; when Slovenia comes above the average of the European Union with gross social income, if we are an organised country - the country - we will not get anything, but if we break partially, we will be able to draw these funds. I think solutions are possible, not rejecting this law, but solutions are possible for the successful development of Slovenia, which is crucial that the process organisation of everything that is not the surroundings of the state centre does not continue in the following. One possible way to combat uneven development is to establish landscapes where an important part of economic power and an important part of the powers that are now firmly in the hands of the State will also have to be transferred in order to achieve this objective. The decision to transfer part of the economic power and strengthen the autonomy of the regions has brought about a significant increase in regional development in many countries. As an example, Ireland is often cited, which has established regions for this very reason, as I said earlier. The development of local self-government since independence and the excessive centralisation of tasks indicate the need to strengthen the power of the municipality in relation to the country through the province rather than other, broader levels of local self-government. The provinces are expected to carry out the following national tasks in conjunction with Ljubljana as the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. The following are the reasons for regionalisation and decentralisation. Firstly, regions do not question the territorial unity of the country, but allow more fragmented expressions of human sovereignty at a level closer to the citizens. The region is a decentralised unit capable of addressing the challenges of the 21st century, as the traditional structures of local self-government have become too small to carry out certain local affairs. The region is becoming essential factors in economic progress and development by producing wealth and employment in an environmentally sound manner. Regionalisation is always an expression of the country's self-confidence and its rejection is the opposite. I think that by adopting this law we will not prove the following: if we adopt a law with one or two amendments that are being tabled, we will also help to establish the status of the capital at state level, and the problems that someone wants to solve through the status of this capital must be solved in the manner that I started here. If I didn't put too much pressure on your patience, I'd ask for a little more attention. In particular, the need for the introduction of landscapes due to internal development problems and the application of the principle of subsidiarity or the process of decentralisation is cited as the most important internal reason. More often than not, in the professional debates of the institutional changes, the external reasons that we can narrow down to the conclusion that the provinces in Slovenia are necessary for comparability with the European Union countries and the possibility of transferring funds for more coherent regional development, which will also be important with regard to Slovenia's integration into the European Union. Already there are major regional differences in the European Union, which will undoubtedly also appear in Slovenia, whether Slovenia is a region or a unitary country with an internal structure to the provinces. The concept of Europe of the regions suggests that national institutions and authorities will slowly weaken under the influence of the growing power of the European country, their place will be occupied by legitimate European political bodies, which will also have direct access to European policy-making. Dear Members and Members! I think that all of us who speak here are also obliged to make progress as Ljubljana Members with this law in the areas from which we have been elected. I think that if we oppose this law with all four of us and try through this law to solve other problems of regionalisation of Slovenia, we will do the country and ourselves a bad service. I call on all of you who are at this level of thinking that in Slovenia, look at three dioceses, which has three universities, has three national theatres, which have three clinics, while one is still in the process of introducing three countries with powers to connect up. And in this I see if we could manage so much political wisdom within all the parties of Parliament that this wheel of uneven development of Slovenia could be directed in a completely different direction and our strengths and directions could be directed elsewhere. It would seem to me that if in the end I could be a bit of a 'greet', I would be very happy to say that if someone were to write another amendment to Article 1, all three bishops in Ljubljana were also seated. And don't mind what I said, I was honest about what I meant.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I've got a number of applications: Franc Kangler, Silva Montenegro, Alojz Sok. And Majda Potrat, Sušnik and Komljanec. Franz Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. I hope I get five seconds or ten seconds in, given that the clock started running faster than I started talking. I am very pleased that in this centre I can also welcome the mayor of the municipality of Ljubljana that she is here among us, although I would like the mayor of the municipality from the second largest city and third or fourth to be present here today. My fellow Member, Potrč, laughed at me earlier when my colleague Moze discussed the centralisation of decentralisation and similar things. But there are things that do not belong only to Article 1 when we are talking about centralisation or decentralisation, things that have happened in this country after a period of time after independence. And my respectable colleague Potrč and all other members of Parliament, I personally voted in favour of the law on the capital in the last vote. However, it is extremely rude and unscrupulous that a group of Members, signed first to all the articles of the text that we adopted at the last vote in this Chamber, substantially changed the dictions of individual articles by their amendments - essential. And this is no longer the law we voted on, but it has a completely new content. It has a completely new content - extremely frivolous and irresponsible to those who were then supported by this law. And even then, I warned my colleague Potræ that I was asking him for further consideration so that the first article, which was disputed for me personally, would correct the dictates of the article. On the contrary, Comrade Run! A colleague and a group of Members coming from your parliamentary group have tabled such a dictatorship to the rest of this law, which closes the door, in my opinion, closes the door to decentralisation and strengthens centralisation. He's closing the door! And I find it extremely unrealistic, unfair and unfair to those we voted on at the time. If anyone wants to "bring us around" in this way, any matter would be voted on in this Chamber on any decentralisation. If a group of non-Ljubljana Members, away from any centre, had brought into the National Assembly a law that would substantially change the content in the second or third reading, we would have legal and formal reasons to say that we should reject this law, because we have essentially intervened in the original content with the amendments. And today, if this article remains in the same content as it is, I have no heart to support this law and this article. I don't have a heart. And I will support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. The mayor of the United List of Maribor, Mr. Sovič, also opposes this law. He's going to fight! And I regret that some of you, by political function, are unable to reconcile these things within certain procedures after a client's work. We have the capital. I am aware that the capital of Ljubljana has its status. That we have written in the constitution, but also when we discussed Article 1 in the city council of Maribor, that, as it says - I would not want to discuss too much substantively because my time is running - when you list strictly, which are those organizations or which are those government institutions and organizations that have a seat in Ljubljana closing doors. And I can have my friend Potts laughing at me as much as she wants. I just don't care because I come from an environment that's neglected, not just the environment where I come from. A lot of other things. And if you Members do not realize that we are witnessing such a centralisation that there is no longer a couple, and here, I can tell you frankly, and even in this law, the greatest burden will be borne by the biggest political party, whether we will accept such an amendment or their amendment to Article 1, or whether we will vote on this law or not. And if I were to compare statistics, and to tell you the truth, today we are adopting Article 1 as endorsed by the Internal Policy Committee with the amendment by colleagues of Silva Črnougljeva. In 5 months or 3 months we will have in the procedure a law on the constitutional or the Supreme Court that has its seat in Cyprus or in Maribor, you will all plead: no, this cannot be because in Article 1 of the Main City Act we wrote that it has its seat in Ljubljana. I'm sure you'll excuse yourself. And you're closing the door. That doesn't bother me yet. It bothers me that you write in, "other state authorities and organizations of state importance." Keep everything in Ljubljana, concentrate everything. Almost, however, we feel that we who live abroad, either in Dolenjska or in Primorska, are no longer needed in this country. Well, if anyone thinks funny or not, we who come from that end of Slovenia have already had one experience with electricity, with Drava power plants, including Mr. Copač, and could even list. Today we have a re-experience with the Maribor Credit Bank, with Maribor Insurance, with another pension investment, or my investment. It's the same experience. The Maribor insurance company will no longer have its seat in Maribor, because two or three individuals coming from the centre are advocating a merger with the Sava reinsurance company without control shares, without control over the share of the capital that the Maribor Insurance Company would bring. Behind closed doors and behind our backs are talking about selling the Maribor Bank. The store lasts here in the middle of Ljubljana. And that my investment was a much cheaper option and more capitalised in the last invitation to tender, and that when the invitation to tender is concluded, someone would be able to change the conditions laid down so that only one can accommodate them. How long are we going to have to endure this and watch it? I am aware and personally support that the country, to get Ljubljana's law on the capital of Ljubljana, this is not a Ljubljana law, this will be the law of all Slovenians, of all citizens. And this will be Slovenian law. We need him. However, in this way that you have gone to substantially amend the articles, you also point out to Article 6, if I may, that these are some of the things that clearly belong only to the affairs of the local community from the spatial plan for regulating and protecting the space, protecting the environment, and the transport security of the economic services. [[...]] [[...]] You know what I tell you, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, as Rudy Mogue has said before, it is a pity that you are no longer in the Chamber so that you can hear. Today, if you live in the capital of Ljubljana, it is a great privilege. And if you have the status of the capital, it's a great privilege for the capital. And be happy if you have all the state institutions and all the other organizations of state importance in the center and in the center, the capital of Ljubljana. It is unfortunate, however, for those who look from day to day at differences such as those of fellow Members Rudy Moja and colleague Peca said there are social and other differences, and the state and the government, as well as this national assembly, are not giving attention to these differences that are being strengthened. And that will have to be done in some way. With this first article, which is written by my esteemed colleague Potrč, with all due respect for you and your colleagues, we will not solve this process. It has brought unrest and intolerance among us Members, because we are sensitive, not because we come from Maribor, because we notice and observe through our work, through the sentient work of these differences that occur. And I would like to take part in this national council once again in order to begin to remedy these social and other differences, which are obviously too large between the two and the third centres. And I hope it tells you something too, if the mayor of the municipality of Maribor, Mr Sovič, reacted late, but loud enough to oppose this law, also because of Article 1. And I would like you to agree on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party or the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group and of the colleague Silva Črnugelj before we begin the vote on this law. Otherwise, my voice is gone and I will strongly oppose such adoption of the Main City Act because most mayors of the municipal municipalities oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u157	Thank you, Comrade Kangler. Silva Nigga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u158	Thank you very much. When I thought about how and how I would contribute in one way to the rationale and that I would convince fellow Members to vote in favour of this amendment of the LDS Group and the Group of Members of the United List, which, of course, is also supported by the Members and Members of the United List, I thought, how and in what way it would probably not be necessary to make so many arguments, because the amendment was so written that it would certainly not contribute to the fact that even the most ardent opponent of this law could not be irritated because the amendment was actually written in a way that it was very open and that it left no possibility for development, not just the city and possibilities for development of the latter. And also any further possible changes that will take place in space and time, in particular, on today's day, when we know that a day that smells very much in history and that somehow tells us all possible ways of development that will certainly be very challenging in the future. And that form and that way we wrote this amendment, it certainly allows it. The law has a great history. You know that the beginning of the writing of this law was somehow written back in 1994 and then it had different and I don't know how many variants, but the most of them were, of course, echoes to Article 1. Article 1, as stated in the proposal of the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, colleague Jerice Frostel and mine, I think it is very open and shows all possibilities for all additions that will be possible further. The law is minimalist and it is difficult, colleague Kangler, to expect from one law that has such a small number of articles that it solves absolutely all the problems and problems the state has, all the problems that are pointed at the relationship between the local community and the state, the ratio of funding to the local community and, finally, to all those other levers that we call the formation of regions, landscapes and I don't know what it is all about. It's hard to expect. I certainly do not understand and do not expect Article 1 to solve all problems of decentralisation, centralisation, polycentric development, central development, central polycentric development. There have been a lot of debates in this House, and we know that one predictive article, when it defines what the role is and which authorities are in the capital, cannot resolve all of this; unless you wanted to prescribe in this law absolutely all the other laws, which you claim are not perfect and that certain amendments and additions are needed. About the property. I don't think there can be any doubt about property. This is as much as I would have if I had told my colleague Rupar - which he did not, of course, come and tell what he said and left - said also, the town house in Tržič is partly owned by us, the Lubljans. You know! The property is known and whose it is and how it was made. The Ljubljana Castle has been built for a very long time, we have certainly renewed it for 25 years, millions and millions of years, especially the Ljubljanaians from the budget of Ljubljana - of course, in the way we agreed on it, and under the conditions that we have resolved in all elected bodies. As to how and how this law went through the procedure and whether local communities had the opportunity to deal with it, but I can tell you - both of you and Mr Pecchet and you, Mr Kangler - that the law actually went through all those procedures that it must go through. That's why you also treated him in the municipality of Maribor, even though he wasn't set by procedure. It was also addressed by the city council of Ljubljana, and I can tell you that even the city council of Ljubljana and the city councilors were not most pleased, because the capital is much more ambitious and expected of this law a bold and far more ambitious solution. However, they have also found that this is possible the minimum that this Parliament is currently capable of, and so do all of us politicians, to somehow end the story of the capital. That is to say, if the law is so written after so long of coordination and negotiation, it means that we are able to talk and negotiate so much. And dialogue is needed and we have reached some consensus, and I think that this consensus is relatively good for this level of development that we currently have. What the next day will bring and what the future will bring, we will see. I expect a lot more, but that's all we've been able to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u159	Thank you. Aloys Sok gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellow Members and Members! In this debate, I think the Ljubljana MEPs like you and the Maribor MEPs like you. I am coming, not from Ljubljana, not from Maribor, but from quite the outside, but I must say that I love Ljubljana and Maribor. So what you are proposing in this law is, of course, as my fellow Member of Parliament has said. Janez Petty Officer, empty content. You're law-abiding what it already is. It's something like a marriage to grow weed in April. All these institutions [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] [[...]] May I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u161	Please, colleague. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u162	All these institutions, which are written in Article 1, already have their seat in Ljubljana. I remember that a coalition once awarded a Maribor piece or Slovenian People's Party in the government and one seat of one ministry - I think the ministries of tourism - were transferred to Maribor. Then what was it - that we had two seats: one in Maribor one in Ljubljana. This proposal by the Mayor of Celje, Mr Shrot, is, of course, inconclusive. Unrestrained because you cannot simply put the seat of the National Assembly outside, I don't know, Ljubljana - then will all government representatives continue to go to Celje and vice versa? They're just some kind of populism move that doesn't really contribute anything. What I'm like as a non-lover and as a Nemariborian is not the seat of these institutions. I am concerned that in these centres, especially in Ljubljana, the headquarters of various companies are also being moved, that capital is being moved to the capital city and to major cities, and that this capital is also leaving the human potential and that rural areas are being deprived of the necessary human resources and also without economic power and without new jobs. And if today we have accepted an association ratification, we have met all the legal and formal conditions for entry into the European Union, then I would expect from all of you who are forming a ruling coalition and the government to now take a little look inside, a view of what is said by the growing developmental differences, increasing differences between the Slovenian regions, which are unjustifiable, which are also criminal and which have the consequence of a major social difference. So this seems to me, much more important than where the seat will be, I don't know, the National Assembly, the government or other institutions, which are institutions of a governmental nature. So, how do you arrange for Slovenia to develop more evenly? For when Slovenia becomes - and is actually part of the European Union - it will be extremely important to preserve the Slovenian country in order to preserve the Slovenian countryside. And that's what we should be discussing, what our relationship to demographic policy is, what our relationship to nativity is, what our relationship to values is. This is what can keep us as Slovenians in Europe. This, if any institution in Ljubljana or in Maribor, is, of course, irrelevant from my point of view, but it seems to me that it is much more practical, that everything is somewhere in one place and that it is unfortunately or fortunately so that it is Ljubljana and it seems to me that it is a waste of time for Members coming from one and the other to argue about how to write this article, which is actually the same as the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. After all these debates on amendments to Article 1 of the Law, perhaps it has already been lost to someone to discuss these two amendments. And during the offered versions, I will choose the second, the one proposed by LDS, Silva Črnugelj and Jerica Mrzel. Allow me to base my choice. The proposed amendment after several attempts, however, defines the role of the capital so that it does not upset all other citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and does not give the impression that it takes them something they would like to have, but usually it is placed in the capital. Ljubljana is established as the centre of the state of Slovenia with the Constitution. And if we want to act in the national interest and to withstand the pressures that will be exerted in the globalisation processes in a united Europe, we should ensure that the awareness of belonging to the capital and the importance of the capital for the country is strengthened. But by the laws of physics both forces must work: monetary and middle-aged. That is why I have listened to the debate of the fellow Member of Parliament, also from Maribor, Rudolph Mojet, who, I think, not without reason recently received recognition that the 'nai' policy of Maribor, because he showed how it is possible to build everything in the country of Slovenia, because of some unresolved issues, in relation to the uneven development of this country, but to "build" as a politician. So, to make sure that we know how to separate between what are our petty, private interests that help us improve the likeness of our own electoral body and what is good for people. In fact, I can't follow the principle of "let the neighbor die." For I cannot accept the thesis that the law of the capital is to the detriment of Maribor - forgive me, I can't take this thesis, even to the detriment of Ormož. The second question is whether it is for Ljubljana's benefit, we should answer this question when we decide whether we will support this law or not. And since I have been mentioned twice and gleaned because of my conduct, it is so that in some statements a person cannot remain completely indifferent. Now the only thing I have left is to start crying if some people continue to explain what the city council in Maribor actually decided at Monday's meeting. However, since the debate revolved largely around Article 1 which was presented in the form in which it was written in the supplementary proposal, this amendment, which I myself said would be supported by, and by those others, was not presented, is understandable that the City Councilors considered that the possibilities for anything else were being closed. But if the dictatorship is so open now that the law is the one that sets the seat, then I think, the excitement in the city's city council of Maribor, and the excitement in the good part of the Maribor public, but a little overly easily triggered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u165	Thank you. Mrs. Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u166	In view of the fact that the discussion on the law on the capital is seeking foreign routes, and this debate particularly confirms this, I would like to return to the amendment to the first article of which I am a signatory. And to explain why it is listed and corrected in this form, it is slightly correcting or making more transparent the dictatorship than it was in the second reading debate. I would like to point out that this amendment to Article 1, which defines the tasks of the capital or the scope of institutions in the capital city, allows for the possibility that any of the state authorities, by means of legal options, is located elsewhere and not in Ljubljana. This is said to be the case if the law provides otherwise, then this institution may be in another place of Slovenia and not fixate. It is true, however, that all the institutions listed are already defined by law. More than those listed in the explanatory memorandum, both from Banka Slovenije, from the Ombudsman, to the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, etc., which are determined by the regional acts and, above all, by the laws, where their domain is. But all this debate, which hangs heavily on Article 1 and on what this is an administrative court of a country, but to feel in another reading, that there is a lot of unresolved views on what is the role of the capital or which are its autonomous tasks, which are so specific and so state-favourable, that other local cities, areas cannot have them or do not have them. And in the debate as it has been, I am surprised that someone has not tabled a proposal to amend the Constitution and Article 10, where the status of the capital of the state of Slovenia, i.e. Ljubljana, has been drawn from some - I do not understand or understand very well what they are - these prestigious interests. Secondly, I will say, the simplification that is taking place in the debate on this law and also in this amendment, and mainly in this article, is a question of centralisation and a completely wrong understanding of what decentralisation or centralisation is. These false theories are based on the fact that where an office or office is located, there is also a concentrated and thus a power of decision and decision. It doesn't matter where she is. It is important not only how income policy and budgetary resources are dispersed but also how the decision-making power is dispersed. This is not related to the status and status of the office. It is important that residents of a given area have the opportunity to decide on their interests and their decisions and wishes. Regionalisation of Slovenia will be no different if Parliament is located either in Celje, where there are obviously great desires and a sufficiently wealthy budget, in Nova Gorica or Maribor. It is important to know where the powers are, how the powers are laid down. And, of course, I find it very uncomfortable to listen to these explanations and to simplify the question and the interpretation of centralisation, Mr Kangler, but if, in fact, those levers where they are needed to wake up in the way you want them to be, they were also indirectly wasted with your help when constitutional changes were not supported where in the interest of centralisation and regionalisation of the Slovenian space could take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The applicant has priority over the other panellists. Miram the Run has a word. Please. As a proponent, you have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to say I'd be very happy if it were true. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u169	I gave my word to Miranda Potch as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u170	if the debate can really be concentrated on Article 1. [[...]] I, not out of politeness, but, indeed, deeply agree with my colleague Mojet's debate. The question of the competence of local communities, the question of regionalisation of Slovenia, such or otherwise, the question of the competences of the regions means the decision-making and the extent of the resources available to us, and also the relevant regional policy at national level, which will provide the necessary resources. That is why I believe that by listing or not listing some of the seats of the public authorities in Ljubljana, while reading incorrectly, which is written down, does not really do itself any service, this demagogicism can do him no good. I could say and I will say, although I do not like to do this, that as an active politician in the 1970s in Maribor was one of those where, together with the then economic centre and the holiday, which is now active in DeSUS, we started a policy of polycentric development in Slovenia. And it was adopted. And together with Dr. Vladimir Bčič, who fought for the University of Maribor, I was the first president of the University of Maribor: in my time and also with my efforts it began. By saying that I don't understand anything about Maribor's problems, which at the time, thank God he had over, I think 75,000 employees of about 130,000 people. Today we know that, unfortunately, the picture is different. I understand, I really understand that it is right to draw attention to the problems of inadequate regional development in Slovenia. And those who are from Maribor, as well as from Ormož, as well as from Tržič and speak of this as unjust and that the conditions are not the same, you are deeply right - from this, from every other city - deeply right. But please don't associate yourself with this when you claim that this law wants to centralize or decentralize something. That's not true! In particular, if we support the amendment in which no institution will be registered in Article 1 and any institution will be bound by a specific decision in the law or any other act in order to ensure that it is or will not be established. So I would really like to ask that in this part we are objective to ourselves, because on just one occasion someone will read and ask what was said and what was said. And believe me, with such views the problem of Slovenia cannot be helped. To warn them, you can't help yourself. Helping to do so in the way that Mr Moge spoke, but not by distorting the facts that are linked in some text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I apologize for my mistake, as the proponent you did not report the time, so this time he went to the parliamentary group, but I gave you an advantage nonetheless. Next to the debate, Franz Sušnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, this law that we are in, I'm sure it's seemingly empty, but the debate is speaking in the opposite direction, or it shows that in this law, in my profound opinion, there is an enormous amount of content. There is a great deal of content in this because I can see that by this law or by focusing all the debate on this law on Article 1, the problem of funding the capital city of Ljubljana, which shares the fate of all local communities in the Republic of Slovenia, whose consumption is moving towards those, I will say, the lousy 5.2% of gross social product. Apparently this is your reaction to centralisation, which did not stop the rain at the borders of the Ljubljana municipality, but goes on. I understand this as the ability of the applicants to provide additional money by means of this law to fill the budget of the Ljubljana municipality. Apparently 61 billion and a few more budgets are not enough. Now I ask you, gentlemen from among the proposed groups, to think about: this 61 billion means a little over 200,000 toll per capita consumption, how and how they meet their needs all the other local communities that are moving at the level of consumption90 and several thousand tolars per capita. If I look at this law from this point of view, I am very pleased that, directly with this bill and the way in which the debate is conducted, you have acknowledged how well-fed, how unregulated the area of financing local self-government is. And on the other hand, I congratulate you: a skilled manoeuvre, also likes voters, is that you are proposing that, I am sure, when this law is passed, you will open up financial channels for an additional inflow of the state budget into the municipal treasury. See, on the contrary, I cannot imagine what else we can understand under the coordinated exercise of the tasks under the authority of the state authorities and the authorities of the municipal community. It is also this privilege that the city of Ljubljana has the seat of all institutions which certainly bring something, and this is seen to bring. It is also seen in the appropriate consumption per inhabitant reached at the final stage of Ljubljana. Clearly, it is not enough to ensure the normal financing of the city’s municipality or the normal financing of the capital city. And such a way, which is nicely said strange, such a way and such an attempt to legalise the additional funding of the Ljubljana municipality, which will go, to this I am deeply convinced, even at the expense of the poorer position of the local community, is nicely said strange. On the other hand, it is also understandable that it is not obvious that the funding of the congregations would be arranged in a manner that is appropriate. And to assure the local communities, I will say, human life, existence and normal functioning worth funding. But it's interesting to see, not least you've been experienced by a politician, how skillful it has been to do this, that no one "stuck" in Article 3, in 8 of this law, where all the content, where that red thread is [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] or the essence of this, the essence of this law with which you have practically opened - I hope that not too wide a stream for the flow of state money from state institutions to the cashier's municipality [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u173	Please concentrate on Article 1 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u174	Ljubljana, while dealing with the two amendments under Article 1, which are not really important. [[...]] At this level of centralisation, I don't think it matters what's already centralised, what's already in the capital. Since, at the end of the day, the fact that all this is in Ljubljana shows that Ljubljana cannot live properly, because otherwise it would not have come with such a marriage proposal. I hope that the remaining municipalities, including the municipalities that share the fate of the malnourished local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia, will also draw some lessons from such projects and will be more determined to redistribute our public finances slightly, and that at least some European comparable part of public finances or gross social product, if you want, will be dedicated to financing local self-governments. These are also the comments we have received from the European Union all the time. 5%, this is the absolute lowest, deepest bottom that other European countries don't know and then it's no wonder that even government parties seek such legal proposals to provide money for the functioning of the capital. I will neither oppose nor support this law. However, the amendments do not matter what is stated in Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u175	Thank you. Janez Komljana has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Vice President. Some of my fellow Members understand these implementations. Most of the time, I can't find a real connection to the law that we're adopting right now. However, I know that there are a lot of open problems around the more equitable development of Slovenian cities and landscapes, and I hope that we will solve this too. It's almost imperative that I don't stick to it exactly, too, because almost no one sticks to the rules of procedure. But there's something I'd like to say about the capitals. These stories are very strange. Sydney is not the capital of Australia, but Cambera, because the admirals, when they had power in their hands, decided that the capital must be so far off the coast as not to be attacked by ships. That's why they put him within 15 kilometers. Well, of course it's not like that anymore. I just said that for a joke. We have Ljubljana in the freeway, if you like, and my constituents will not resent me, and they will understand me when I support the law and also support the amendment, the second amendment to Article 1. I would like to point out - no one has said this and I am pleased - that this amendment says that the capital is the administrative centre of Slovenia, it is not written that it is business or economic, although in fact it is also business and also economic, and I also well understand that these seats of these bodies, which are written here, are only if the law or other act so provides. That means they could be somewhere else. Personally, I think it would be a great centralisation if they broke it down into cities in the country. I am thinking this because we are sometimes turning to this regionalisation, and I am often reminded that we are a very, very small country, that we have very, very small cities, that these cities and countries are not comparable to European countries and European cities, but that we are, and that we will remain. There will never be more than 2 million of us and our cities will never be bigger. It may increase by one hundred, two hundred thousand or ten thousand inhabitants, but not anymore. And this reality needs to be realized when we set all these goals of marriage, which will actually help to achieve more even development in all parts of Slovenia. Slovenia is very, very different, hidden in the valleys and rivers, and this actually makes us great. Therefore, I think it is right that we have a capital in Ljubljana, that this does not mean centralisation, we will approach it with well-managed roads and roads, and I think that this can also provide us with certain better conditions for better decentralisation of economic and other financial resources that will help Slovenia to develop more evenly. Personally, I expect and claim that this is an advantage for the city of Ljubljana and it is not possible - I personally do not expect and would not support that because Ljubljana is the capital, therefore we should receive any additional funds. Reverse! With the resources he has, he has to perform this function. I once listened to an interview, and there I was stabbed, by a very responsible official of the city congregation, when it was said something like that, if you want to be the capital, you will have to give something for it. I don't think it comes from the law, I don't understand it that way, and I don't think it should be. This is a great opportunity and also a great advantage for Ljubljana to be the capital. I therefore support the second amendment to Article 1 and, of course, the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I don't know, I didn't attend the whole debate, but in some of the debates it sounds like anyone would trouble Ljubljana as the capital. I do not think that we have heard this in this Chamber and that no debate is going in this direction. Of course, there is something completely different about the conduct or content and purpose of this law. Here I join the opinion, which has already been expressed, on the extraordinary political skills and also the perfidity of the applicants, that they know in a perfidious way, a misleading way to place matter that looks completely different for the general public, as it is in fact a matter of fact. In fact, it falls among the laws that allow for the long-term complete centralisation of Slovenia. And this is a global, major project of this ruling elite, which has been in power for 12 years. And it's constantly talking about decentralisation, we've even heard about a successful project of balanced polycentric development that is supposed to be realized, about regional differences that will be reduced through some laws. These are blind maneuvers. This is a side project that uses blind maneuvers, blind projects that blur the whole situation. One such blinding projects is, for example, regionalisation, the law on regions, then the periodic amendment of the law on equitable regional development, which is not at all alive. Let me say in this place, because I think the law of the capital is not a bad thing, it's a normal law, it needs a law. However, in view of the experience with this policy and this elite, it is essential that the law on equitable regional development, which has been adopted for five years, is not yet being implemented, we now have a change - as a blinding manoeuvre. Only then could we move on to the adoption of this law, but not in such a form and with such subtony as is contained in this law. In fact, look, now that we're talking about these amendments to Article 1. I am, of course, closer to the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which is clear, which is transparent, but to the second amendment is a typical product, a top product of Liberal Democracy and Satellites. Blurred in a perfect way, but it all says that on the basis of implementing acts, everything can be done in a way that is designed in power centres. Now I don't know if they were thinking about looking into the future as well as the honourable consulates, which I know is one in Maribor and one in Cyprus, and maybe somewhere else, they won't be allowed to be out of Ljubljana in the future. So I say, more transparent and even more acceptable - or acceptable - and illustrates the role of the capital is the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. But this is also the point, if we look at, say, the German model, too extensive. In Germany, the Constitutional Court is not in the capital city, it has never been in the capital city, it is in Karlsruhe and the country on the constitutional level is functioning well. If, for example, we had a constitutional court about 50 or 70 kilometers away from Ljubljana, I am sure that today we would have a different situation with regard to these political intolerances that are being unleashed in the country than we do. Certainly, let us say, which of the politicians who have been in high school since childhood and then have been elected to the Constitutional Court after the careful recruitment of the former President, would not have gone to the Constitutional Court if a 50km out of the capital had been located. Of course they can control it! They all have to be in the center. But if only we had to deal with the Constitutional Court, that would be impossible. This is either a possible negative consequence or a positive consequence of the dislocation of a state authority. Today, in these current cases, it would be significantly different. I wouldn't have had any interpretative statements, and I don't know what, these nouvovs that no other constitutional court produces, just ours. Now, if this law and its hidden purposes were not such, then of course I could have believed or listened to the words of the President of the National Assembly - I think in some festive speech, he probably even said in Dražgoša: we must prevent Slovenia from becoming a state of two speeds. Yes, people of God, however, Slovenia is a country of higher speed according to the standards and possibilities of their citizens. Not only is it in a completely different speed, a completely different speed capital where the elite lives, but some regions of Prekmurje, Haloze, Dravinska valley, Brkini, Soča valley are even in reverse speed. Every day, they have poorer conditions there. Every day, they move out more because it takes away their power.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u179	Comrade Jerovšek, back to the amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u180	See, the duality of this United List: the President speaks to the crowds something, Members, and Members are doing something completely different. At the same time, I almost believe that this "massage action", as I said last time, was mainly directed against the President of this party, who has a substantially different opinion in the matter than the dogmatic part of the party. And maybe they want to get rid of him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u181	Let's go back to the amendment, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u182	Look, Mr. Vice President, please be able to make sure that I can concentrate when I speak [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u183	Let's stick to the rules of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u184	I would not have been such a terrible opponent in this state apparatus and in this power, that most institutions - which they are and will be - are in a centre that is the administrative centre of the state if this authority were to act on a transpartite basis. However, we are longer from day to day than transparent action. From day to day there are several negative opinions of the Court of Auditors for these state institutions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u185	It doesn't say that in any amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u186	Yeah, yeah. [[...]] If it were different or the same as in the first amendment, it would be the way I want it to be. In fact, there will be some kind of power in this country - once it will have to - people will probably realize that we have to have such a power that will - not in a short time will end this Slovenia more speed, but that it will bring these speeds closer. To get you closer to that speed. That Prekmurje, what I know, one part of Koroška, the Sokka Valley, Haloze, the Dravin Valley will be joined up to switch from the back to that first speed. And that at the first speed there will be vehicles for Ljubljana, which is at the sixth speed, like the best cars. Thus, from this point of view, in fact - regardless of whether I support that we should have a law on the capital - what the government party represents and proposes with the help of satellites, I actually see this skill, secrecy, perfidity, confusion leading in a completely different direction, to other objectives as they have been written down, even though they have already rectified the law - it is no longer just the mayor and the Secretary-General of Government, as it was in the draft law and so on. However, as I said: this is not the law that would give the capital what it is doing, it kept it as a popular capital of all Slovenians, but wanted to make a capital for the best possible place, for the best possible possibility of ruling elites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Sasha Peca has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u188	Thanks again for saying that. Your Honors are here! I'd like to touch some speakers in front of me. In order of order; Mrs Črnugljeva has found that this National Assembly has debated and given several hours of debate on decentralisation. Here. We have debated a lot in this National Assembly. But there's no effect. And there is no effect, because the ruling majority does not accept anything. And the effect is not because we face such laws as we meet today, which legitimize centralisation. So the amount of speech, Mrs Črnugljeva, has nothing to do with the final decision. The fact is, in this National Assembly, most people are marching every decision that wants to go in good decentralisation or to stop the process of centralisation, which is in full swing in our country. Next, Mrs. Crnugljeva, when you were talking about the Ljubljana Castle. I'm glad we have him, too. But similar or related institutions, we also have facilities elsewhere in Slovenia. For example, we have a hospital in Maribor, which we built with a self-contribution. And that's the essential difference, you know. And in Maribor we build most of the stuff this way because we don't get any funding from elsewhere, from the country, but unfortunately, usually always self-contribution. And to me personally and I believe that even most Mariborians - except for Mrs Potati, who always - are advertised that is enough. But allow me to continue with Mr. Soko and stop talking about the city of Maribor. Mr Sok, yes, this is not a law that regulates the relationship between Ljubljana and the city of Maribor. But as a Mariborian and as a man who loves his city, so the city of Maribor loves, I give for comparison Maribor. I am sorry that there are no more Members who hope to raise the issue of their cities, even when they are out of their homes, that is, in this national assembly. But the fact is, and if I say in a different parable that this law will achieve or the consequences of this law will be that if we ever have a more capable government and if we have a Ministry of Maritime Affairs, this ministry will unfortunately be absurdly stationed in the city of Ljubljana instead of in the city of Koper. This will be the result of this law and this in the National Party, of course, we oppose. Mrs Potrata went on to say - I don't think there's any point in losing words here or I think it all means her last name. But, "let the neighbor be killed by a cow" -- just part of her speech; yes, that's what this law is about. This law goes at the expense of other cities in this country, and this should not have happened. A very selective law is one that will harm other areas. Allow another kind of replica to Mrs. Shirco, who said we misunderstood centralisation. And he says it doesn't even matter where the office is. Yes, but if it doesn't matter where the office is, then put some office outside the capital! For our purpose, Members, who are coming or at least within the National Party, I know about Mr Kangler and Mr Sok - in particular, is to have an office in another place to bring the offices closer to the users. This is a basic point: to make it easier for people to carry out their affairs on the one hand and, on the other hand, to make these offices, institutions, ministries, whatever, more humane. In order to have prior contact with citizens and at the same time to provide feedback. And Mr. Potts, you speak one thing, you know, you're doing another-- I'm sorry you're not here. If it is true - you say that it is not an important article 1 of this law, which I think is still important - why did you simply write it? Why can't only the first existing paragraph be written in Article 1, this is "Ljubljana is an official centre". If we did not write down what is stationed in Ljubljana, half of the disputes would be less than they are today. Once again, this law legitimizes centralisation, I'm sorry. That's why we won't support him at the National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u189	Three more debaters have been reported: Rudolf Petan, Tone Anderlič, Silva Črnugelj, in a footnote Aurelio Juri - cancels and again Sok. Orderly, Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. So, I didn't mean to come forward at first, but now that a person is listening to this debate, it feels like a lot of people think that we are really deciding on some existential issues and really something important and that the main purpose is where an institution is going to be. After all, it doesn't matter what we write down. Even if we write it down, let's say that there must be an embassy in the main - but it will not be up to us, not in the government or in Parliament, but the state that will put where it wants to put it, the embassy. I supported this marriage at first, and I will support it today, and I will support it in the third reading, no matter what it says. For a simple reason, because Ljubljana is the capital and I think it will remain the capital. Otherwise I'd rather see there be another place - Styria - but so it is. We can't do it anyway. But it's something else. After all, it's not about what's written here, but this law was introduced for another purpose, it was a purely pre-election law to cover up all sorts of things with the SIB bank, and it's like not to mention that I'm not going to waste my time. And of course, we will talk more about this capital, and this will be more achieved. This law - I am sure - will not do any harm, but if there is any benefit, as the esteemed colleague of Posture has said, it is indeed a question. And since I don't think that's going to happen, and since it's right that we have a law about the capital, I'm going to support it, but I'm worried about something else. I am concerned that the representatives of the city of Ljubljana, where it is, you do not want it, whether it is not like it or not, which is also the capital and therefore have certain responsibilities. And they can't get rid of that responsibility if we have laws or if we don't have them. And to say that the capital only costs and these problems are those problems, it's very irresponsible and unresponsible. But I hope to say this with all my responsibility, for if such a representative of the city, who is also the capital, speaks of this capital, then he does not deserve to be here. Because if the cost of his work is his own, then let him write a bill that's so much cost, but there have to be clean accounts. And that is why, in this proposal, the Mayor of Celje has me and I am barely winning, perhaps even more for a joke than indeed, in the third reading, because one of the amendments will be accepted to be the seat of Parliament or the capital of Celje. Because in Celje at least the mayor was so much that she said, "We will build you a new parliament, and you will also have parking spaces along with something else." In Ljubljana there is a problem of parking space, but a Member cannot park in front of Parliament - everyone else. They can park for the inn, and there is sometimes free parking space. What am I trying to say? Irresponsible are the statements of the city's representatives, the costs they have with the capital. Of course, if you have something, you have some expenses, but it probably covers up in another, and I just wanted to point out that, that's all. We need the capital, we need to have it, and I supported it in my previous reading, and I supported it on the committee, and I will now support it. But I really don’t want to hear such statements anymore, because then I’m going to start to believe that it’s really something to do with finance, that this law is what the city’s congregation wants only through such or other forms to get some money, which I’m not sure about now, but they will soon convince me if such statements continue and that’s why I’ve volunteered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u191	Thank you. Anton Anderlich has the floor for discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u192	When we first introduced this law, we did not know, but only Mr Jerovsk's contribution opened my eyes and I found out what was behind it. Conspiracy! As with all the laws that were to be arranged for something to be done, so, of course, the subject that Jerovšek then chose as his entertainment in this congregation. And I think it's a very serious matter. It's a really bad feeling for people. On the one hand, we all think - and Mr Jerovšek also talked about this - how the capital must be, how we need the law, and then screams a big "outdar" and all denys, as if we were trying to do bad Slovenia, citizens, citizens, what we want to do to the last place in Slovenia and so on. And it's a really bad feeling, of course, when, on one side of the city's world, saints and saints find that, however, the capital and institutions in the capital are tightening them, burdening them, and I don't know what else. What else can be said if they consider this law at some of the city councils’ meetings and reject it by reprimanding it, telling it what to do and making such a law. And, of course, today was not a debate, nor was there a general debate, not about this law, but about the amendment; there was a debate on something else. There was a debate on how and in what way not to decentralise this Slovenia, but how to redistribute some offices in Slovenia and bring them closer to the citizens. I have repeatedly reiterated in this Chamber that I am absolutely in favour of all the administrative units organising all those services which are now managed by the State and thus bringing them closer to the citizens to perform those functions in administrative units and then in municipalities and then in expositions and I do not know where else. Unfortunately, by moving the Regional Development Fund - or what it's called - to Ribnica or a meter, we have not approached the people of this fund, on the contrary. We have removed it, made difficult access, and more; officials are driving from Ljubljana to Ribnica. He may have received some domestic work there, and what kind of places he's going, and that's nice, but when we moved from Ljubljana to Ribnica, we pushed this fund away, except for those in the area of Ribnica, Kočev, Veliki Lašča, maybe some other place. But I think if we're talking about institutions that can have their own exhibits that can have their offices all over the place, all over the city, that we can only get closer to people. Do you think the Ministry of Small Economy was closer to the citizens because there was one mandate in Maribor - no, it was no closer. Although I think so myself, it is personal that Slovenia has the ideal geographical position, that it has the capital in Ljubljana, that it has the seat of state institutions in Ljubljana and that they are appropriate - and for this I will always take the stand - decentralised, but in a way that all institutions, each ministry will approach their network, their activities to every place where it is possible to do so, of course. I believe that some ministries are even doing some things successfully - bringing the functions closer to the citizens, while others are a little less. We also have a strong, as Rudy would say, nest shit, that some things are organized differently by ministries. This is bad, and I am against it, and I believe that we will be with some things, but probably with that remarkable regionalisation, if there ever is a region, whether there will be three or there will be - I don't know how many. Even here, you can see that we can't unify ourselves, maybe we could take some step in this direction if we could unify how many there will be. I am convinced that because I have participated in some of these discussions, all the backlogs behind the regionalisation programme are due mainly to the different expectations of how many regions the province will be. Expectations are different, performances are different, ideas of experts are different, ideas of ministers are different, and then we have what we have that we cannot move. Of course, some lawyers say that it is imperative to change the constitution so that we can introduce the provinces, others say that this is not necessary. Now we have come to some limit that maybe we will just change the constitution because one group - and the government has felt so - that we need to change the constitution before we can start the process of regionalisation. But, of course, when this is a question on the agenda of the National Assembly, we cannot gather an adequate number of votes for three years in order to move forward. Financing of municipalities. The gap between the representatives of the three types of congregations - the smallest ones, such as the normal congregations and the municipal municipalities - is so great that there was never any law to be created because everyone stuck to their own fence. I am very frank because these discussions were very large and there are always discussions: change the funding system of municipalities, which is not fair. Yesterday I did not speak, I did not explain my voice when it came to discussing whether there was a need for a debate on the financing of the municipalities. I'm sure it's a way for someone to prescribe the criteria and say 90,000 tolars and something over has to be devoted to one child and now regulate like conscience and you know, it's not real. I am firmly convinced of this, and I will tell the Minister as well, and I will stand for things to change. But this has nothing to do with the capital law. The main mistake is that when people in Slovenia say centralisation, they say Ljubljana. When they say Ljubljana, they mean the country, which is not true. Ljubljana, in my opinion, is one of the cities, one of the municipalities, one of the fortunately privileged municipalities, not because it is the capital, because it is what it is, but because it is the largest, because it is at the heart of economic flows - I don't know, everyone else and so on - and it is therefore privileged. In some cases, as city councillors believe, it may be disabled in some cases. But I think that this law is absolutely necessary to put an end to these discussions, which have been undeniably demonstrated here today. And it is said: the capital of Ljubljana, because it is likely to continue, is by the constitution - and you all say that Ljubljana is the capital and that we also have the law - arranged by this, by this and by this regulation in one way or another. And performes you and these functions in relation to the state. After all, even for the country and, of course, it is governed by a treaty, an agreement, compensation, and, however, it will be settled. But until these things are clearly settled, it will always be that when people say centralisation, they will not talk about the government in Prešern, but will talk about Ljubljana. That's wrong. And this, of course, is a serious problem in practice many times. I believe that the city councillors and mayors - both this and the previous mayors and all the mayors of the country, the functions that you spoke about, and the institutions in other cities, elsewhere, do not have any influence. And even under this law they will not have them, because this law does not regulate these things. I only hope that we will move things forward and that we will also address the financing of municipalities and also regionalisation and also decentralisation, not redistribution of state offices across different towns, cities, and Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u193	Joseph Jerovšek you have a minute and fifty. Perhaps your debate was misunderstood, so I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u194	Yeah, don't comment on my time. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Look, Mr. Anderlich said, of course, I was talking about the conspiracy or he accused me of conspiracy. [[...]] This shows that he does not master political terminology. Conspiracy at the state level is something that cooks or dreams against power. Against the power elite. And this law was written by the elite, the power elite. So to act against ourselves, the South American colonels don't even do that. I was talking about plots, skills, perfidity. And I even praised you from this point of view Maybe I mentioned in part about the conspiracy what goes towards the tops, say the authorities, the legislative or some party, this "mazak action" in Novi Gorica. And here may be a conspiracy - that when they bowed down monuments with pecking crosses. That's what I strongly condemn. There may be a conspiracy against sovereignty against the Slovenian people to accuse them of impatience. And what I have mentioned may have been directed against Borut Pahor, the president of his party, that any factions have done so from his client. Because they need proof of what the Slovenians keep saying is that we're impatient. And since their president has a slightly different attitude, they may have conspired against him. Maybe here, but I don't know if you've thought so deeply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u195	Replica, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u196	So it won't be inexplicable. I did not accuse Mr Jerovsk of conspiracy - far from it; but I am grateful to him for telling me that we have been plotting all the time and that we have actually led a conspiracy through this law and that we have been perfiding it and that I do not know what else we have involved in this law. I do not believe that it is possible to make laws differently, Mr Jerovšek, than if someone proposed it in a procedure to correct it with wise suggestions, or if you make a law that is competitive with this law. However, in every single matter that a party or another wants to arrange, one or the other Member sees a conspiracy and sees some secret purpose, some dark forces possessing us just to deceive you into bringing you into an accident. We have no intention of doing this, nor have we ever thought of it, and I assure you that it is neither conspiracy nor any other purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Silva Montenegro gets a word to discuss. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly give all Members and Members' groups the opportunity to table amendments, the same as Mr Sušnik and Mr Jerovšek. Therefore, I thank you for all the praises we have for our skills in making the amendment to Article 1. I just wanted to say that the movement of the Roman Empire was just the city. Ljubljana was once Emona, a Roman city, and as such was the centre of the administrative, administrative, economic, economic, crafts and school system and also the centre. And as such [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] in a certain period - please say this again, Mr Jerovšek Thank you very much. [[...]] In Europe, however, cities behave by having agreements with the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u199	Aurelio Juri gets the word, and the rest of you, please, you're running out of time to discuss [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u200	Okay, I'm getting better. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u201	So I give my word to Aloyz Sok, who still has. No, you can't do this anymore. You've wasted your time. Aloys Sok. Just give me a second to get the picture back. Comrade Sok, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, I would like to refer to Mr Pecchett, my colleague, and before that, I would like to say that this law is empty. The purpose of this law is to divert the attention of citizens and citizens from the real problems in this society. You have written in Article 1 what actually exists in practice already. Everything else about cooperation between the city and the state is called a government, and between the secretary general and the mayor of Ljubljana, it is possible without law if it is, of course, on both sides of the will. It is not necessary to adopt such laws for such a matter, but even less to hold such a heated debate around this law. I agree, however, with the debate of Mr Pečet, a fellow Member of Parliament. He may be concerned that Maribor is actually in a deprived position in this country. In fact, why is this happening? Simply because politics is "slipped" by centres of economic power, and where the political seats are, then the seats of economic institutions must be there. That is why Minister Kopač wanted to be the seat of the holding company in Ljubljana. If it were not for this connection, it could easily be the center or headquarters of this company in Maribor. And I would belong there, but because he wants to keep it at a distance, in sight, in front of the eyes, then, of course, he has to be in Ljubljana. It's the tragedy of that country! The tragedy of this country is that this ruling elite is either this great coalition or if you want this government too long in power. There's been too much confusion between this connection and this thread. This should be stopped. I fully agree with Mr Mojet's debate on decentralisation when he discussed the problems of regionalism. But he's a member of this ruling coalition, a member of this government, which has caused this centralisation. And it was a pleasure to see that, as a member of the ruling coalition, he was aware of these problems. But I'd like to ask them when you're going to start saving them. Yesterday, Dr. Bajuk here proposed a very well-placed proposal for a debate. He suggested, however, that this national assembly face the issue of Slovenian demographic policy. I wonder how Mr Moge voted - I know it has not been voted on. 42 to 32 the proposal was rejected. But today we are talking about developmental problems, regionalism and these problems in this country all the time in this debate about the capital. And one more thing, I have no fear that the maritime ministry would not be in Cyprus, because if this government remains in power for some time, then Slovenia will in fact no longer have the sea and, of course, the maritime ministry will no longer need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u203	Thank you. This was a debate between Members and Members, you no longer have a replica. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] You're out of time. [[...]] Seven seconds, Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u204	I'll be in those seconds, thank you to my colleague Silva Nigga because it's exactly the theory of Jung's consciousness. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] mentioned the Roman Empire and caused the Roman Empire to fail. [[...]] Thank you for your honesty. For the same reasons, Slovenia will be able to go somewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u205	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. Those parliamentary groups you still have time for - Moze Rudolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u206	I would answer Ambassador Sok because I know this is a provocation. Personally, I do not think that the debate here, given by the government, on coherent regional development, would have led nowhere. I'm sure. There's gotta be some other way to get your powers together. One such big project, which I do not know how many times have led other countries, needs to be taken "cum grano salis" with grain of salt, needs to be unified within the parliamentary groups. Because, as far as I've talked across different parliamentary groups, some say, "Fucking bastards, there's gonna be a new country's seat here. I prefer Ljubljana to you." And we're from the same future country. And I've got this inside my client, and I've got this from other people I've been talking to. We should have arranged a lot of these things and done them. But I'm looking from the MP's point of view, and this is what I said earlier, that we would try to change anything, and I don't think I spoke to you for nothing. I think something's gonna change. To have a state organized, now, so that it is a state, and when the Korean Slovenians who were here at our cultural evening come to us, they said, because Slovenia is also a country - because we have no country. And we're in statistical distribution really, NUTS 1 is equal to NUTS 2. As a result of these things, we are able to beat ourselves up in regional development in the next case. It's still fine until 2006. Since by then our gross social product will probably not exceed the European average, as a whole, we will also be able to get back certain benefits from cohesion funds. But when this thing reaches the top of the country, like in Germany, as it does in France, then, of course, it will be for us to lose if we have as much division as it is now. Because big and rich Germany gets into those divisions, I said regions, or if you want the land or whatever it is, again, which are under the average, the funds back. And if we manage to domain in this National Assembly Members, and sign - I am taking the initiative, and I can also address this initiative; colleague Sok, I will be very happy if you sign - to go divide Slovenia into three countries. If we find enough consensus within ourselves from all parties, I will propose it, I will sign it, so I will collect the signatures, it is one big agreement within all of us, outside the parties, us, to go into such a concept that would be good for the country. Look, I can still, because I have enough time, I say, the biggest changes in regional European policy have happened in the last few years, when the Committee of the Regions - the Committee of the Regions, not the countries within the European Union - established the Cohesion Fund. The Cohesion Fund was created primarily as a consequence of ensuring that the economic and monetary union we are going to further exacerbate regional disparities, particularly in poorer Member States. And regional policy is one of the most important policies of the European Union today. And in 1975, if you want data, regional structural funds accounted for less than 5% of the overall budget of the EEC. In 1998, the level of funding in the regional structural funds had already reached one third of the funds, and through this I see that if we were able to agree that either regional governments or regional governments with powers and which could also compete for these funds from the European Union, the home country should also be able to help with the same share of the tax money in order to develop it more. This thing would be inappropriately large and would have, I think, greater effects than it has now, where funds are being raised within the ministries, some development agencies are being formed here and there, using part of this agency for these things, i.e. for their functioning, and from what major effects are not on the back. I know it will be because my colleague Sok is already holding my hand there, he said, because you're in the ruling coalition because we have 34 votes. It takes more to change the constitution - why you haven't arranged all of this and done it. I have to say, I haven't talked about this for the first time. It would mean a lot to me if we were united. And if you were to do it to sign it, it would be, you would say, the imperative of all, the majority of Members and the MPs of this national council to move this thing somewhere. Realistically, we're getting close to the election. We will spend a little time together as we are, perhaps the last meeting in July, perhaps before the last session, that we will go to the elections and that this very heavy burden, which lies on making something bigger in a coherent regional development, will fall to a new Member's call. It seems to me that we, as Members, would have done enough to find inside us and sign one such initiative that we agree that these things are being resolved in this way. I think that these are not party objectives, but that these are national targets if they could come together around this. And just as we were able to unite, so that we went to NATO, as we could have done, that we went to the European Union, it seems to me that if we thought as much about coherent regional development as I tried to interpret, if we combined forces together, that we could do a lot more than just one conversation, answer the question or, as it is now, all these dilemmas that plague us, which we are not in the most developed part of the Republic of Slovenia - to try to do so in a way that we try to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u207	Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u208	Thank you very much. So, because Ambassador Moze's colleague said it was a provocation. No, no, no. It wasn't a provocation, it was the reality of that time. Maribor, from which you come, is in an extremely difficult economic situation. And I did not hear Members of the Liberal Democracy and the United List raise their voice when the holding company's headquarters moved from Maribor to Ljubljana, and with this also a huge amount of funding, Maribor lost its staff. It was just a quiet landing for a situation like this. And that's what this is all about. One thing, of course, is to speak, the other is to think, and the third is to work. You have scissors and linen. You can arrange and start a program of decentralisation of this country, but no. On the contrary, you're working! This policy, which you and your government are advocating, is leading us to an ever-increasing centralisation. And as a Member coming from Ormož coming from northeastern Slovenia, I feel this damn good. I see how hard it is for people to live day in and day out, and how the centres of capital flow into this white Ljubljana. However, to understand each other, I agree and know that Ljubljana is the capital and I have already said in the introduction that these institutions listed in Article 1 and, after their function, belong to Ljubljana and it would be pointless to "screw" them in Slovenia and thus make them, for the first time, greater costs and for the second time problems for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u209	Maybe.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u210	I don't think it's an accurate statement, Comrade Sok, as you said. I, my fellow Kremjar, and others who were from there, voted in favour of the discharge of Minister Kopač for this reason. I signed up for sitting there and Maribor isn't that poor, but he has to do something himself. In Maribor came the seat of the post office, in Maribor the seat of the railway, in Maribor we recently received the medical faculty, in Maribor, you also voted, came the national theatre and so could be listed. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I know, well, but I'm saying these things. [[...]] But, look, Mr. Sok, some expect the Mayor of Maribor, Mr. Boris Sovic, to work miracles. In his municipal budget, he has 18 billion and almost all the money, almost the vast majority, is paid. There's an extraordinary amount for projects. And Maribor, as one that is supposed to be a regional centre and development center, cannot move with this Styria. He can't! I think that if the income that goes to 35% of the municipalities, to go 30%, to stay, to regions or to land, and to the rest of the country, to share this, and to get these countries or regions to have their powers, and then it would be completely different to agree within Styria - which would have a budget, I would have calculated about 250 billion - whether it was able to run its own secondary education, it would be able to do so and so on. Some other potential would be like now that we're living in a system like this. So that you will not misunderstand, the National Assembly and whoever sat here in the past three or four mandates has done hard work with 300 laws a year. And it's a long way from saving these things. And it's this centralization where you have to have a landing of people if you want to do something new; I've just come across that we have within the individual options of someone who's from Ormož and totally different looking -- I'm sorry, because I'm using the city -- from the one with Ptuj, from Slovenj Gradc -- totally different looking when the one from Velenje and so on. This complex is a big task. I think and I am sure that in the national interest we will be able to overcome so much political will and overcome these contradictions and set up a model in our country now that the borders will open and protect the back of the belly - I mean especially the part of Slovenia that borders Austria, like the printing part that borders Italy, so that it does not become an interlocutor on one side or just the mayor of one city with 18 billion, enough that Ptuj does not even mention, Murska Sobota and the other side, and the country with all potential and everything on this side. In terms of that, I wouldn't look at everything so black-eyed and say, "There's a place where everything sucks, and there's a place where everything's good." We're all responsible, each one of us, by our own actions, by our actions to change these things, so we went to the polls. I'm just going to try to act because I'm a little older, in the sense that we're going to pull these goals together, and that we also give people who have elected us in all areas a decent life, and that we will not disappear as a nation in this Europe. For if you remember this thought of the late scholar Trstenjak, who said of the Slovenes the next thought, he always warned us whenever we spoke to him. He said, "We're too few to argue with each other." "Fine" is that we have different views on this, but whenever it comes to national objectives, then I think it would be good for a colleague to attract me, that it is okay, that he will also help some of the three countries, or as far as it goes, to set up. Not that I would then go to this goal, but that you did not vote in that vote at the time, so that it would be done here again in the National Assembly on this issue, so that you are morally corrupt, you do not want this thing to go around. I take this in some way too, which is legitimately right and I also think that you did the right thing, that you just counted me, that I didn't do it and you just got some political points. But I don't think that thing would solve that problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u211	One last debater. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u212	You know, oftentimes when it's not true, it can give you the impression that it's the truth. Mr Sok, I would really like to hear how much money has been diverted from Maribor by the fact that it is the seat of the holding company in Ljubljana. I firmly believe that Slovenia has such limited resources, both human and material, that it would be absolutely necessary, when it comes to energy, to connect all the potentials and not say that only the Drava pool is the one that created something, because that is what we all, including the citizens of this Slovenia, created from other parts. To speak in this way that made Maribor poor is simply irresponsible. It is also unfair that we only talk about how only Maribor is one who has had development problems that have experienced bankruptcy and various other unpleasantness. This country, this government has tried, all governments have tried to help all areas during the transition. I would hardly say that Maribor was not receiving the same if not greater support from the country than all other regions. But certainly bigger than Pomurje, which is today’s last and most impoverished, and never once stand behind it and ask this question on the agenda. However, we cannot hear half of the discussion about the capital about how poor Maribor is, how I do not know what it is, but when we have laws on the agenda, when we regulate it, we also discuss it. Please, we are discussing the capital, we are discussing the amendments and it is at the same time to say or support such an arrangement and whether you support the amendments or maybe you have even tabled them - but this, as I see, is not. I support the law itself, with or without an amendment, because I believe that it is necessary in Ljubljana as the capital, that what goes by its constitution and, of course, also relieve the other part of Slovenia of the constant burden, if you are what Ljubljana takes as the capital of the city to others, because, of course, this capital is. [[...]] And that's what matters, and that's why I support this law. But I understand that this is an opportunity to say another thing, but I believe it will be an opportunity later.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u213	Thank you very much to all the discussers. This concludes the debate. Time's up, too. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, following the conclusion of the 12th item of the agenda, which is at 20.40 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. And I'm moving on to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO REVEAL THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE EDUCATION AND INSTRUMENT LAW - SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the text to representatives of the government for further explanation of the bill available [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You're not authorized. I'm sorry. I've got an announcement here. Ivan Bizjak, Minister of Justice, and Sarah Regacion, Undersecretary of State. And I have to do so under the rules of procedure, so I will give the floor to the report of the Internal Policy Committee, which has treated the bill as a mother's working body. And I'm asking a committee representative who doesn't have one. Franz Sušnik has been announced to submit this report. That is why I will move on to the presentation of the positions of the Group of Members, and I give the floor to Maja Zupan. Please, if you are listening there, because I am calling on Majda Zupan to discuss the position of the Group of Members on the law that we are considering. I hope you've been following me and you know that we're at the 11th item of the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, one more time! The Constitutional Court’s decision of 3 July 2003 is the reason for amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance. The law dealing with this subject added a new condition for the appointment of the executing officer, namely that the executing officer may be a university-graduate lawyer or a person with a nostified degree in a foreign law college. An active executor who does not comply with this condition shall, within one year of the entry into force of the law, carry out an additional examination or submit an application for the appointment of an alternate who is a lawyer. If we remember a little bit back, then we cannot go past the comments and the controversy about the adoption of the latest amendments, namely whether a new arrangement is appropriate, whereby the deputy, instead of the executor in which he is employed, can carry out all operations and his actions are considered official for the performance of the executor. The substance of the amendment is that the date from which the deadline for carrying out the additional examination begins is postponed, which is in the interest of the active executors, so to speak, of the wrongdoers. It is stipulated in the law in force that this period shall expire on the date of the entry into force of the law. However, the Constitutional Court has decided to run from the application of the rules on the programme, conditions and method of carrying out the additional examination from 1.3.2003. This is fair since, otherwise, the time limit for carrying out the examination for the later application of the Regulation would actually be reduced by half a year. The Constitutional Court has on several occasions decided that, contrary to constitutional arrangements, there is a provision which does not give the affected entities a time limit for adapting to the newly prescribed requirements and conditions. In any case, the direction by which work in executive matters must be acquired is the right one, since it is already under Roman law that enforcement is the goal and the fruit of the law. In the previous regulation, executive matters were considered to be a routine area. The idealised image of non-conflict society and non-proprietary acquisition was in place, resulting in the protection of the social position of the debtor. Of course, the question is whether the legalization of an additional condition is the fruit of lobbying lawyers or the real need. Nevertheless, there is a need to find a way to eradicate the negative notion of enforcement. If the way to do this is independence and thus the responsibility of the executives, it is also necessary to require greater expertise from them. This is easier to expect from the executives if they are university-graduate lawyers or have an additional examination. The area of enforcement is a matter of professional difficulty, since the law provides that the executing officer must carry out direct enforcement actions, irrespective of the alleged obstacles to the actual and legal nature. The legal education of the job of the performer is comparable to that of the expert, the valuer, the interpreter and, according to the content of the knowledge, approaches the lawyer and the notary. And it allows him to communicate quickly and effectively with the court and representatives of the parties. In our parliamentary group, in New Slovenia, we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Vojko Celigoj will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u216	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor! After 2002 when we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, we have before us the amendment of this Act, which is the result of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Since there is a need for a finding of non-compliance with the constitution established by the Constitutional Court in Article 116, we advocate the adoption of this law as soon as possible. This will ensure a better, more efficient and faster execution of the acts in the enforcement process. In particular, this means that the performance of the performance of the executor requires a good knowledge of the legal rules, which also makes the matter more effective. Effectiveness and consistency under the letter of law are, however, important factors in the implementation of the concept of the rule of law as set out in Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution. In this way, we will extend the amendment, which provides for a one-year period for additional examinations for those enforcement officers who do not fulfil the conditions under the existing law, by starting to run only with the implementation of the sub-legislative regulation, which is from 1 March of this year. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we agree with such a proposed solution. We will also support the proposal of the law along with the position of the parent’s working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision of 3.7.2002, found that the provisions of Article 116, paragraph 2, of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance provided that an additional examination should be carried out for the enforcement authorities within one year of the entry into force of this Act. In accordance with the law, the one-year period for the examination began to run from 21.9.2002. The sub-legislative regulation, the rules on the programme, the conditions and method of carrying out the additional examination for the executing officer issued by the Minister of Justice entered into force on 13 July 2003. And according to the Ministry of Justice, in fact, we can find that additional examinations have already been organised in September 2003 for non-graduate executives and that all 46 executives have already completed this examination, which means that the unconstitutionality has not affected their commitment and the Ministry's commitment to do this. However, it is the duty of the national assembly to abolish the finding of non-compliance in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court within six months of the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court in the Official Journal. Pending the elimination of non-compliance, the one-year period for the completion of the additional examination shall be deemed to have begun from the date of application of the Regulation which I previously stated, i.e. from 1 March 2003. Therefore, this novelty extends the time limit for the execution of an additional examination for the executors and thus eliminates the unconstitutionality of the statutory deadline and, as I repeat, such a provision has also been made in due time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u219	Thank you, colleague Irma. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, following the conclusion of the 12th item of the agenda, which is at 20 40 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. At 6 p.m. and 55 minutes, we'll move on to the 12th item of the agenda, and by then a short break.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u220	Good evening. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, on the third day, the proposal for a law on the legal relationship and the social dimension. The draft law was prepared by the Slovenian Government for third reading. I give the floor to the Minister to explain this proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u221	Dear Members and honourable Members! By amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the proposer shall eliminate the non-compliance of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia established in constitutional assessment procedures when the Constitutional Court decided that the first paragraph of Article 105 and the first and second paragraphs of Article 114 were incompatible with the Constitution and that the first paragraph of Article 106 and the fourth paragraphs of Article 114 were repealed. Within the time limit imposed by the court, the proposed amendments and additions were prepared by the law. The proposal for amendments also aligns the proposed law with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child, while at the same time incorporating the requirements of the European Convention on the Rights of the Child with parents and other persons. What is most important in the amendments and the amendment of the law is the child's benefit. The proposal was based on the fact that, as signatories to the conventions and as a legal and social state, public authorities and holders of public powers, as well as parents, must do everything they can to ensure that the benefit of the child is re-examined, verified and ensured. In the proposal for a law, the proposer specified the legal standard for the benefit of the child, specifically specifying that the child has the right to express his or her opinion in proceedings, either by himself or by a person who trusts him or her, which is an additional procedural right under the European Convention on the Rights of the Child. In this respect, a proposal for a new quality of law means that, despite the fact that the child has already followed the principle of the benefit of the child in the present proceedings. A novelty in the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law is also an opportunity for joint education and child protection. The exercise of parental rights is defined as the same responsibility of both parents even if they do not live together, and in particular news about the realisation and implementation of contacts is important. Due to the particular importance and so far a number of initiatives for better regulation have taken place in the area of the implementation of contacts. The proposal was also based on the European Convention on the Contact of the Child. When liaising between the child and the parents and others, it is essential that contact first be a child’s benefit. Parents are obliged to allow and do everything they can to avoid alienation. If contact is not for the benefit of the child, it is possible to limit it, exercise it under control or even prohibit it. It is precisely because of the practice so far, when it was possible to manipulate children, which certainly did not benefit them, that the legislator has also put in place the possibility of re-examination, to whom the child should be entrusted with education and protection, and in particular a more cooperative parent if it is for the benefit of the child. The special novelty of the law is also the right of the child to have contact with other persons if he is connected and related to them in the family. These persons are primarily parents, foster parents, brothers, sisters, half brothers, and so on. Of course, the child has this right in cases where it is in his or her best interests. Where, despite the family connection of children to these persons, the child’s benefit will be determined in the process and the child’s opinion will be obtained. In the area of amendments and addition to the law governing survival, it is important to mention, in addition to the renewal of the powers to conclude survival agreements to the court, that the law specifies more precisely what all maintenance involves and provides more clearly for the sequence of maintenance beneficiaries. Spousal survival is also able to be concluded before the notary. With the solutions offered by the proposal for amendments and additions, together with the proposal to amend the law on the guarantee maintenance fund, the government has also addressed the most important issues in the area of subsistence, which will help to better protect the benefits of the survivors. I also predict that there will be a need for a harmonisation amendment. Since the amendments to Articles 16, 18, 19 and 33 were adopted in the second reading, which established the provision that in the case of an agreement parents may propose to issue a decision in an unfair proceeding, such an arrangement should be taken into account in the 42nd Article relating to the transfer of jurisdiction in unfair cases from the district courts. I suggest you accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u222	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On the proposal of the law in its entirety, I will now invite them to give their views to the parliamentary group, first of all, a fellow Master Drobnič, who will tell the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, then it will be followed by a colleague from Montenegro. First of all, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! So we are adopting a new law on marriage and family relations. The adoption of this novel is justified by a number of unresolved issues, legal issues, legal matter, the regulation of contacts between parents, divorced parents or spouses and children, the regulation of these contacts, which are also the subject of a constitutional dispute, which has been resolved by the Constitutional Court and has also been committed, the legislator has sent the legislator how to deal with it, the regulation of parental rights, which is laid down in the old law in which the child lives, the regulation of the issue of maintenance. At the same time, the legislator, the bill-maker, has tried to settle some other things. The rest, however, is some self - administrative and socialistic expression in the law that waits for relief at another time. We are pleased that certain changes I have also found a place in this law, which we have already proposed in the New Slovenia Group, and unfortunately the ruling coalition has rejected. This is therefore a matter of protecting children's benefits in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child when the law does not sufficiently define them. The competence of assigning a child or transferring it from the social work centres to the court, which was also a constitutional decision to regulate contacts, in particular to ensure contacts which until the third reading in our opinion have not been sufficiently regulated, at least this requires minimum contacts, which in fact stem from the parental right to a child. The primary right is certainly and the primary right is the right of the child to parents, to their education, which they provide, to care for. On the other hand, this is a mutual matter, which also means a certain right for parents to have a child to see the child take care of their development. In this context, it is also important to understand the attempt of the amendments to implement the active legitimacy to submit requests for regular contacts. This, however, stems from this concept of rights, including the right of parents, but is subordinated to the primary rights of the child, the priority of children's rights and the consideration of the child's opinion in dealing with the issue of the child's trust in protection and education and both parental rights and obligations in the event of divorce. The Ministry of Labour has also introduced the concept or arrangement of a child’s confidant as a procedural option for the benefit of a child, which is not to be opposed. Unfortunately, maintenance agreements are a good idea, but they are placed too little in a pretentious and binding manner. This is supposed to be an instrument of assistance, not an objective. Arrangements for extraordinary contacts with brothers, sisters, half-brothers, half-sisters, elderly parents.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u224	Please, Mag. You've got your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u225	Active legitimacy for making contacts, and this is a questionable arrangement for others to show it actively. Therefore, the definition of regular personal contacts, in the New Slovenia Group, we defend the term and the requirement of regulation according to minimum requirements, because it would also be a sample or a basis for deciding judges, of course with the assistance of professional services, and we do not insist on this or even advocate that the only one who can give an expert opinion is a centre for social work. Here we should leave free the right of choice for parents or children to decide who will be trusted, who will offer counseling. So if there's someone else, then they can still choose a social work center. The introduction of obligations to conclude agreements on the sharing of property, residence and migration and similar matters is subject to civil regulation. They can therefore be made as a notary record, not as a necessity in court. The problem of transferring child survival obligations in the case of parents of children to third parties. These are the problems that will remain. It is difficult to ask someone who is not a natural father to transfer parental rights by making a marriage bond. This is hard to defend in this civil law. In this respect, we should not have this as an obligation. There should be a free decision there. Thus, the proposer, the government, has, in the interest of regulating relations, crossed the line of privacy, private responsibility of parents, spouses and child relations, and needlessly imposes on them what is necessary, according to the State's belief. Such a relative approach is wrong. This is essentially a private right guaranteed by the Constitution. A State may be involved when a particular constitutional right is violated, in particular in the case of the benefit of a child or an elderly person who is incapable of living for himself. On the other hand, it did not regulate what is the subject of the dispute and the difficulty of regulating contacts between divorced parents to set a minimum extent. That is why, of course, I propose that this amendment, which has been tabled by a fellow Member, Dr Cukjat, be adopted. When this identical amendment, slightly more terminologically refined, was tabled, there were difficulties in investing. It was tabled only in Lotus Notes, unfortunately, this amendment of New Slovenia, and as such it is not accepted by the National Assembly. I also hope that in the future we will agree differently in this National Assembly, that we will respect and enforce developments in the field of electronics, and that in the third millennium we will also allow amendments to be tabled in electronic form and that this will be sufficient. Maybe another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u226	Thank you very much. A colleague of Silva Montenegro will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Behind her is a colleague of Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known Minister and Secretary of State, well-welcome colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on marriage and family relations. These amendments provide for the protection of the child's benefits in accordance with international documents relating to the protection, education, contact and survival of children, as Slovenia has adopted a document at the UN General Assembly "The World by Children's Size", which represents a comprehensive but phasedly feasible project, a document defining specific objectives, tasks to improve the situation of children over the next decades. It is good to recall that in 1992 Slovenia, through a fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia and a succession act, succeeded the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, an international instrument which recognises the situation of the child in the legal system, in society and in the country. Despite certain shortcomings in the exercise of children's rights, we have aligned the rights of children in Slovenia with the Convention and have adopted a number of laws and laws and measures to improve the situation of children in Slovenian society. The present law clearly defines or specifies the legal standards for the benefit of the child. In proceedings, the child has the right to express his or her opinion, either by himself or by the person he or she chooses, and to trust him or her. The so-called trustee is an additional procedural right under the European Convention on the Rights of the Child. The new changes and the amendment of the law are also the possibility of joint education and the protection of children to trust in the common upbringing and protection of a new quality, which does not require a child or a parent to decide who to trust. Let this change [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The fact that in family relations, despite the fact that the husband and the wife are decomposed or the partners, in terms of children's rights and benefits, it is important that both parents are responsible for the child and that all essential issues are decided by the parents together, regardless of whether they live together. [[...]] Disputes in the exercise of parental rights will be decided by the court in an unfair proceeding. When making contact between a child and a parent and others, it is essential that contact first be a child's benefit, and we will in fact give the United Nations Group the greatest attention, because we believe that the child's benefit is the starting point and the one to which our legislation must be in fact complete. The law clearly defines the child as having the right of contact and the benefit of the child is the highest, which is why this law will also be supported by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. The decisive and only criterion for all decisions concerning the rights of contact is the right to restrict only those contacts and in cases where they contradict the will and benefits of the child. We know that there have been quite a lot of discussions about how and how contacts would be regulated. However, only here will we leave the right of decision and the legal provision proposed by the Ministry. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we have found that it would be possible to better define and regulate certain decisions and procedures in the courts. The United List of Ambassadors will support amendments to the law and thus allow for a better standard of implementation of children's rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u228	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. My colleague Tsukaj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, followed by his colleague Levič. Let's get my buddy Tucky first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present. So in our third reading, we have a marriage that is quite important for marriage, a family situation for family life, both as a father, as a mother and as a child. There are some news that we welcome, but this law has one big painful hole. And we'd like to fill that with the proposed amendment. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to base this amendment. This is a question of the child’s right to contact his parents. You know, when divorce occurs, it's a lot of times that the husband and wife, not the children and the parents, are actually in conflict. Children still love their mother as much as their father after their divorce. We both want to keep it. We'd like to see them keep them together, of course. But if that's not possible, at least for each individual, at least separately. But it happens, unfortunately, just as the Ombudsman warns us of life and reminds us of these things every year in his report. This is because the child’s backs are used to avenge one partner over another. With nothing can one partner hurt another more than to rip his child off, to prevent contact with the child, to actually lose this other partner not only as a partner, but also as a child. Of course, such revenge is effective, but it is very painful because it really goes through the back of children. To illustrate this, let me read a portion of the letter that was published a good week ago. It was written by a gentleman from Shentvid. He says, "I've read a letter from Boris Zalokar from Trbovlje whose complaint about contact with children has been resolved by your ministry for six months." The Ministry is here, and an open letter is addressed to the Minister. He goes on to say: "This ministry is known for its long-standing resolution of such complaints, since one of the fathers has been saved for 27 months. My complaint, Mr Dimovski, has been saved by your ministry for a year and would probably have been even longer if it had not been the case that you, Secretary of State, Alenka Kovšac and the administrative workers who resolved my complaint, because of their undeclared employment under article 262 of the Penal Code. This year, when I had no contact with the children, you allowed your ex-wife to be completely indoctrinated. From the last contact, when they left crying each other for one leg and didn't want to let me go, the ex-wife brought them up so successfully that after a long absence, when they met me again in front of the witnesses, they were angry at me," and then she quotes the children's statements, "The kid's fucked up, what do you think you're going to achieve. I'll kill him. I'd rather take the machine gun and kill you! I'll take the axe and blow your head off!" So in one year, when the process of regulating contact with the child lasted, not only did the father lose the children but the children lost the father. Instead of love, hate. A crime against a child's youth that will have consequences throughout his life. And what will now be in line with the current provisions of the law if the amendment is not adopted? Disputes will also begin, complaints about how many hours a week, a year, to ensure contact with a separate parent that children will not live with. And at the time of the dispute, at the time of the lawsuits, and this will be resolved by the court - the courts know how they do - at that time there is no regulation, but what is the minimum contact of the child with the parent. No rules. And at that time, at the time of the lawsuit and the trial proceedings, of course, the child will be available and grace given to the one who, of course, will be first granted to him. It's usually my mother's. At that time, what happened to these two children will happen again. They'll be with their father. A few days ago, I received a letter from a gentleman who had been waiting three years for a verdict of contact with his daughter. And finally, the social work center, of course not yet the court, ruled after three years. And how much do you think it's agreed that a separate mother must provide, enable contact, a daughter with a separate father How much do you think? [[...]] No more than four hours, but not for a week, not for a month, but for a year. A year. Four hours a year. And that's what's going on, and this is going to happen. Revenge is sweet, only gentlemen, not through children. Not through kids. Our amendment recommends nothing more than that until there is a judgment until the court decides until things are in the air, until it is known how much will be allocated, it is said at least four hours a week or four days a month, although we should normally say at least every day or something like that, but this minimum must be guaranteed. This is as you know, as I mentioned once before, an example of the feeding of prisoners in solitary confinement. If it were to be said that the warden could give food or not food to the prison, then the prisoner should complain, the court will decide. Yeah, what's up with that time? What about when he's waiting for a verdict? He could die in one week. That's why it has to be written somewhere, but how long is that minimum until the court decides? Nothing else. Bread and water. At least that's what it's gonna be. And we put that in the amendment. And whosoever invokes the Conventions that it is in fact a basic task, and above all the interests of the child, will not support the amendment when it comes to deciding on these matters, is a hypocrite. That's why I'm sure the amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u230	Thank you very much, colleague Tsukati. I don't see my friend Levich in the hall. That's why my friend Brenčič is here. You have the floor, Comrade Brenčič. You will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Behind you, fellow hitchhikers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the minister and coworkers. The basis for the content of the law on marriage and family relations should certainly be sought in the 53rd, 54th, 55th and 56th Articles of the Constitution and the European Convention on the Rights of the Child. From this point of view in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we accept the content presented by the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law as positive, as this eliminates weaknesses in the implementation of the law in practice, especially in the part that defines or ensures the protection of the child's benefits to the greatest extent possible, in particular as regards the protection, upbringing, survival and also the contact of the child with the parent even when the parents no longer live together. In accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, the proposal also limits the power to decide on the child’s contact with a divorced parent from the Social Work Centre to the courts, which will certainly eliminate a series of unreasonable and inconsistent decisions of the centres, which have often encouraged fathers to come mainly with torture and difficulty in establishing permanent and direct contacts with the child. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support and defend the starting point, that when deciding on the rights and obligations of divorced parents to children together, it comes primarily from the benefit of the child. However, we do not support that this should be defined solely and exclusively for the benefit of the child, but it is also necessary to pursue the benefit of the parent in this relationship, for when a child sees the parent of a humble person, he is not happy, it is not in his favor. The proposal for a law puts first or foremost the agreement between divorced parents on the exercise of parental rights in accordance with the child’s benefit. However, when this agreement is not possible, the court must enter and, in particular, protect and establish the authenticity of the child's benefit and also protect the weaker. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the bill. It will also support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which establishes or wishes to establish some kind of minimum and regular contact with a child, which, on the basis of a number of cases of abuse by one parent, is most generally the case with which a child resides, is pointed out by many parents to increasingly frequent cases where, on the basis of some kind of resentment, one or another partner wishes to avenge his or her former partner, but most often, regrettably, on the back of a helpless child, regrettably, in his or her favour. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe it is worth listening to and entering into the law or establishing the minimum extent and manner of contact of a divorced parent to their children. However, the Court, as is clear from the amendment, will decide otherwise in a fair case if, on the basis of evidence and arguments, it considers that such contacts for the benefit of the child may also be a poor traveller in certain cases. Thank you very much. We will support this amendment, and I also expect that we will act soberly and put this minimum into law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u232	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič. Colleague Stana Stopar will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The position of the parliamentary groups will be concluded by counterpart Peca if he joins the assembly, or we will go to the debate of MEPs and Members. A colleague of the hitchhikers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u233	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and a lovely evening for all to attend. In the third reading, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on marriage and family benefits. With the proposed amendments, the proposer follows the decision of the Constitutional Court, aligns the law with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and incorporates into the law the requirements of the European Convention on Child Relations with parents and other persons. A fundamental amendment to the law that the child and its benefits are at the forefront has led both to parents and to state authorities and to public authorities. The law clearly defines the legal standard for the benefit of the child and in all procedures ensures that it is assessed first for the benefit of the child. The important and urgent changes and additions to the law, which we have already stressed in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group in the second reading, will be supported by LDS Members. Let me re-emphasize. When making contacts, the main emphasis is that contact is first of all a child's benefit. That's what the law says. Article 18 of the Act proposes a Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group of amendments, which cannot be supported in the Liberal Democracy Group. We believe that it is contrary to the point of view that we are following the child's benefits in particular, that contacts are primarily of benefit to the child, that this is a child's right. The Court will judge contacts with all involved, take into account the child's opinion and will judge each case for itself with all specificities. This is not subject to the Convention on Contact. This Convention states that personal contact is a form of communication between a child and a person who is excused for contact, so it is not necessarily just physical contact. Problems arise when parents cannot agree on contacts. At that time, the child’s benefit is at stake, so the court must decide. Of course, the Court must justify any restriction on personal contacts. However, each arrangement of personal contacts is essentially a restriction. We argue that a better general contact clause is precisely because it can adapt to specific situations. Temporary court orders are also available to parents. As soon as the action is brought, they may, by way of a provisional order, propose that the court temporarily arrange for contacts and, in essence, provide immediate protection, which is not then dependent on when a legal decision takes place. The representatives of the community of social work centres have also pointed out on the Committee that the implementation of such specific legal provisions on the number of minimum hours or days of contact would significantly make it difficult to implement this provision, since it is up to the court to decide on each particular case what the child’s benefit is. Therefore, we will not support the amendment in the parliamentary group on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u234	Thank you very much, fellow hitchhikers. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Now we will discuss the whole law. If you hadn't read everyone you've listed, I'd have asked those in the hall if anyone wanted a word. Comrade Badness, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The story I am listening to from my colleague Drobnic, who is always assisted by his colleague Tsukjat, but if it is not enough, please contact his colleague Brenčič. If we listen to our three colleagues, we have a feeling that Slovenia is a stepmother to poor fathers when the children of a wicked mother are not allowed to spend a good day with their father. And so to speak, the guilt is all on the woman's side. Women's guilt is mainly that domestic violence is directed primarily at women. Let's just look at some concrete information. It's a women's counseling center. The Women's Advisory is a non-governmental organization that has been dealing with violence against women since 1993. In the framework of its assistance programmes, it offers women victims of violence, psychosocial assistance in the form of telephone conversations, individual counselling, support groups for women, victims of domestic violence, advocacy and short-term accommodation in the crisis centre of the women's counselling centre. In 2002, 636 women who had experienced domestic violence turned to the women’s counsellor. In 2003, 390 women turned to women's counseling. From the very beginning of its activities, the Women's Counselling Office has advocated the realization of the human rights of women who experience violence. During the years of operation of the women’s counseling centre, it has been shown that women who do not turn to her for help are the most common violence in the family circle, most often by their partner. How many do you think there were physically beaten male partners? Not one. Let's move on. Many laws prevent victims from settling the situation and make it difficult for them to leave a violent partner. Amendments to housing, criminal, family and other legislation are intended to allow for more active participation of services with a view to protecting victims of domestic violence. The duration of the various judicial and extrajudicial proceedings involving victims of domestic violence needs to be reduced as additional burdens and retraumatisations are necessary for the victims. Victims often face ignorance of the dynamics of domestic violence and the consequences of long-term violence on victims and approaches that are still burdened by prejudice and stereotypes when seeking help and support. It therefore seems necessary to introduce compulsory education for all professions facing domestic violence, whose main objective will be to acquire the necessary skills for proper communication with the victims, and to establish zero tolerance for violence. Education is a prerequisite for a successful multi-disciplinary approach to addressing domestic violence. Domestic violence is a serious problem of society, which can only be solved through the participation of different professions and governmental and non-governmental organisations, by adapting legislation and procedures that will be friendly to victims and will offer all possible solutions to the situation of life without violence. This happens from day to day. Last year, in Ljubljana, one man was a victim of domestic violence. And here they run crocodiles tears, what poor men are, who don't leave their wives to have those four hours. What happens to those four hours? There are thousands of these stories. In those four hours, men sow hatred for their mothers, possibly threatening physical attacks and so on. In fact, I must admit that I have absolutely no real mercy for these men, these parents who are ready to go over the back of the child, to be able to do what they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u236	Please, Comrade Brenčič, only that we will lead this point as we should. There's no one else on the list of people you've been reported to. Comrade Petty Officer has a word first. Because he's on the list. Then I'll ask you who else wants the word and we'll set the time and end the point. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that. It is interesting to discuss the subject of these frustrations by a fellow Member, Jaša Zlobac Lukič. Now, I don't know if it's personal frustration or a projection of personal frustration. According to what he explains, it might be assumed, or we could draw the conclusion that, given the violence in the family, then we should abolish the institution of the family because it is a violent creation, and then everything will be fine. He's talking about men who are thugs who are bullies. I just don't accept it. I'm not gonna say that men are beaten or that women are angels or that men are angels or that women are beaten. No, no, no. I mean, these are plots that someone's producing, but I don't know for what purpose. However, we may wonder what are the reasons for this to occur in the family. One or the other. I'm sure it's contacts, personal contacts that allow things to be resolved. Therefore, any opposition to this or the goal of making small contacts does not lead to solving problems. Problems need to be discussed, and personal contact needs to be made. There is a lot to be done in the areas of education and education, for good partnership, for respect for human beings and many other things that contribute to this. It certainly cannot affect good relations, in-depth contacts, genuine contacts between a child and a parent, one or the other who live separately, if it is a decision to ensure contacts between 3 hours and 20 minutes per month, or another decision to allow contacts to take place for two hours for two months. There are so few random acquaintances, not children and parents who are supposed to cultivate a relationship that is supposed to maintain parental or parental contact. I have to ask myself about the professional competence of the professionals who have proposed this. Good. If the professional services find that one parent is dangerous to the child, then they will issue or propose a decision not to allow contact for these and these reasons. I don't know, for two years, for three years or whatever. But that means no. But if they say in that explanation that my parents need me, it's useful, and then they decide two hours for two months, there's something professionally wrong with the decision. Absolutely. On the basis of these experiences, we have also proposed this regime on minimum contacts. If the parents agree to contact each other, then they agree and the court will comply with this agreement, it will determine such contacts. They may be less common than we suggest if no agreement is reached. Because you can't force someone to get in touch if they give up. This proposal has two things behind it. However, the right of the child to contact and the right of the child to have contact with his or her child to exercise parental rights is a right to contact him or her. And if he doesn't know the reasons he can't provide it, he'll only provide it to a lesser extent because we can't force him. But such a guide will be a good guide for judges, for professional associates. That is the whole point of this proposal, which we have been unable to agree on so far. We were also unable to agree on a legitimate right and the active legitimate rights of this binding agreement. However, we believe that this marriage could be better. With regard to these minimum contacts, it would be worth considering such a solution in this direction, as I have seen it. Otherwise, the amendment talks about contacts. It would be good if the law were to accurately record personal contacts so that it would not be considered a contact if the parent called the child and consumed the right or if the child called the parent who did not live on the phone and the other parent reasoned that this was his right - a parent who was legitimate, who was supposed to become legal. All of this is in the sense and in the objectives of ensuring normal relations. For a child needs both parents to shape his or her personality, to mature so that he can make contact later in life, to play that role, either from a boy’s husband, partner, or from a girl’s child, a girl’s wife. To understand his role and to understand his partner's partnership in his role. That's the point. Nothing else. That is why we need to establish these frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u238	I will now give my word for the replica to my colleague Brenčič because he was mentioned in two minutes, but only as an explanation. The replica is not a controversy, it's time for controversy, and we've had enough. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I performed earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, but no matter what, Mr Zlóbs has also allowed himself to challenge my performance this time. But progress has been made with a fellow villain, for he has not dealt with me this time with a hypocrite. Thesis, Mr Złłbec, which you are developing, that Slovenian parents are fighting on average, not only that all the averages are beaten by divorced parents, but your thesis is that divorce takes place just because of the beating. I don't torture myself with it, and I don't deal with it because I know it's not the way it is in life. What your experience with yours or any law is, then, your business. It is my opinion that this law is intended primarily in its content to determine the contact of a child with a parent divorced, not to contact a divorced partner with a divorced partner to continue fighting. I'm interested in the child's benefit. And in accordance with the European Convention on the Rights of the Child and in accordance with the Constitution, in every four articles, I adopt this law and the minimum definition of contact between a divorced parent, the possibility of contacting a divorced parent with his child, if he is always in keeping the meaning of the family, I see him so honestly, and no matter how you process this vision of me. I accept this for good, and I will allow you to remain in error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I am not giving you my word for the replica, I will give you my word for the debate, and then I will complete the general debate on the bill and we will move on to the debate on the article and the amendment that has been tabled to it. You have a debate, not a replica. Please, my friend Zląbbet.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u241	First of all, let me tell my colleague Brenčič that in 30 years and more I did not raise a finger on my wife or on my children, because I decided that I would never do that when I saw drunk fathers beat up women and children that they had to run away from the house. If everything is so ideal, why are there safe houses that must be hidden from bullies that are not driven by love for children but by revenge on ex-wives or partners. That's what you're doing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u242	My friend Zlóbst [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u243	. You don't want to understand. A Reality That Is Every Day in a Black Chronicle [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u244	Comrade Zlębec time [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u245	Every so long, a woman is beaten to death, and you say that these are some hysterical inventions of women and feminists.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u246	Your bad time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u248	We will now conclude the general debate. We will proceed to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. May I have peace in the hall? I'm asking for peace in the hall! We have an amendment to Article 18. I'm asking if anyone would like a word on the amendment to Article 18. This is an amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Excuse me? Time's up, please, government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u249	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members! The amendment that has been tabled has already been tried many times with professional and substantive arguments to reject. These arguments remain the same, but I would like to explain some more. If the amendment, as proposed by the parliamentary group, had been adopted for the first time would have been incomplete, it is impractical and is also professionally and legally challenged. One of the things that is completely unclear to me is when deciding on the minimum amount of contact. We have two minimum contact limits. I don't know who's going to decide if parents who can't make a deal agree on what that minimum is: is that one or the other? If the court decides that, I don't know how the court will decide why it's at least 20 hours a week and at least 96 hours a week. Of course, it is impossible to enforce the law in this way. On the other hand, if such an amendment were to be adopted, the legal principle of fairness would be violated that we are equal and different in different situations because the amendment does not take account of the different age of children, the different needs and the different circumstances. It is unclear from the amendment what professional assessments and backgrounds have led the applicants to estimate that 20 and 96 hours of weekly contacts are the limit that is of benefit to the child. The practice shows that in the case of a communication dispute and an assessment of the benefits of the child's profession in proposing is decided on an individual basis. On many occasions, however, when it came to the stage of making contacts, the profession decided on a much smaller scale, when the child established an emotional relationship with the parents with whom he lived and achieved emotional stability, a much larger scale. I don't know, we can deny or deny violence. There's violence going on around us. And those parents who are in a position to make an agreement agree on it, and they don't need it either. The problem is where there is no agreement, where there are conflict situations and where self-conceived minimal contacts may be in a situation where a child should have contact, even though his or her parent is afraid or can be objectively threatened. We have to think about you, too. I also point out that regulation of the minimum volume of contacts could have an exact opposite effect in agreeing on the extent of contacts between parents, which would also apply a different scope. This could become a norm and could even become a minimum of what would be a proposal for a parent who today can apply a greater scale. We also point out that there are situations where it is not possible to determine or, for objective reasons, those who cannot implement. The child is entitled and is actively legitimate to exercise these contacts. He's actively legitimized. He can sue his parents, his parents, who do not make contact with them. Here I would point out that from legal sources, in the professional journal Legal practice has published by Dr. Zupančič, who says, I quote: "The fundamental question is, of course, whether it is for the benefit of the child, to force the contact of a parent who does not care about the child. It's a good belief that you don't." And so do we. These are the consequences of what I'm saying. Mr Drobnič, you have also talked about contacts that can also be carried out in an indivisible way. The Convention explicitly states that personal contacts are contacts that can also be carried out in a non-physical way, and this does not mean that they are merely physical. Our legislation also summarizes this. Once again, I would like to stress that when deciding on the extent of contacts, if we follow the conventions, the child's benefits and needs must be taken into account first. And if we don't individualise this approach, if we set this minimum ourselves, we're going over this threshold. And if the amendment's proposal is to protect the implementation of contacts and prevent the possibility of manipulation, we think that there are enough elements in this bill to prevent them, not least in the law on expulsion. That's why we installed them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u250	Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u251	I don't understand you or you don't understand the purpose of this amendment and its dictatorship. This amendment in the amount of the minimum number of hours, i.e. for a parent with whom the child does not live, means in most cases his or her parental right to this minimum. If he consumes it or not, it's his business. Now it's happening the other way around. Of course, the opposite partner prevents him from making a decision at the center or in court, two years later, the child departs, and then the child is asked how much he wants to have contact with a parent who has forgotten him after two or three years. But it is known that a child who is three or four years old, if he does not meet his parents for two years, wipes him out of his memory. That's what this is about. But it's up to this parent whether he consumes this right or not. This is what this is about and this minimum contact should be ensured. At the age of four, however, it is difficult to ask how often you will have contact. That's something you can ask your child when he's more aware of. The smaller the child, the more parents or professional colleagues are to be taken into account, but not exclusively the centre for social work. Not exclusively. I do not want to generalise what is happening in social work centres, but in this case we should also create the possibility of selecting experts who would have concessions, including others. That's what this is about. That's the minimum. If parents agree that two hours per month is best for the child and for them as well; if this is a proposal for an agreement, there is no need for the court to object, since the sentence of the article is such or an amendment. If the parents do not agree, then it is only appropriate to ensure this minimum contact, which in practice may still mean less. That parent who only competes for four hours doesn't make it happen. But let's give him that right once a week. However, if there is a reason that this is not good, that it is harmful, then the court must state for these and these reasons that would harm the child. But it has to make it clear that contact is to the detriment of a child, and then it's not possible. You may not be able to make contact at all. But not making contact must be with a judicial decision, which is a prohibition because it is a civil law relationship.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u252	That's it. Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask you who else wants the word, share the time and then finish. She's Shirtz's colleague. The debate is closed. Only Shirtz's colleague wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u253	In the second reading of the law, we had a very similar amendment. Only that this time the proposalr was a little more careful, Mr Drobnič, or offered a slightly more form that is still closer to reality than the one that was in the first time you defined precisely, the contacts are personal. Maybe in the fourth treatment, we could get as far as possible. But I certainly do not think that here, as has been pointed out many times before, it makes sense to standardize and thus narrow down the manoeuvre space of communication, because situations where the possibility of meeting parents or children and parents who do not live with their child are impossible. Unable to be translated into other forms, it is difficult to standardize them in other forms of time, such as 28 hours per week or 96 hours per month. There are situations in life where parents, one of parents, say three months, can study for four months or be absent or anything and simply should not exercise such a right. At the same time, I think that the whole discussion, however, revolves around the starting point, which has been said that some basic values of the family must be maintained. There is no doubt that they are necessary, but there is also a need to face the fact that this family is also changing and that there may already be someone among us in that so-called regulated family who cannot meet the standards proposed by this Supplement to Article 18 or the amendment of Article 18 when it comes to separate families. At the same time, let’s say that a contact with a completely well - intentioned and so - called healthy relationship between separate parents could be translated into a contact called the possibility of communicating with the phone, the possibility of communicating, the possibility of alternate communication with emails, by mail, by letter. These are personal contacts, too. Otherwise, I understand the personal intent of the proposer and, irrespective of the specific understanding of family values, I support it, but in life it would bring very much not only legal but also personal problems, that I think it is better to avoid it, as has been said many times before.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u254	That's it. We've exhausted that agenda. We will vote on the amendment in accordance with the timetable. I'm gonna stop this session now. We'll resume the meeting at 20.40. Please, the secretaries of the parliamentary groups, if you are so attentive and kind as to let the leaders of the parliamentary groups and Members know again, then we will adjourn the meeting for tonight and continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'll be adjourned by 20.40.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u255	I invite my colleagues to come to the big debate room, not yet the end of history for today. We still have some responsibilities. We have quite a few votes. We continue the session, first of all I ask you, if each person can check his or her voice device, or burn the light, as a sign that everything is all right. I do not see any comments on this, so we will now move to a vote on the proposals for decisions that have been discussed during today's debate. We are at the end of the 16th item of the agenda - when we consider the proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See on legal issues. We're at the third hearing, deciding on the bill. I will put the bill to the vote. Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. I will not support the Vatican Agreement, this is not the capriciousness or relic of past times, but the decision grows from the freedom of thought and freedom of conscience which require me to draw attention by my vote to the fact that an agreement can be considered compatible with our Constitution only if an interpretative statement by the Constitutional Court is taken into account. It is known, however, that in international law, this is not binding on the Vatican, which can be of crucial importance for the application of the constitutional principle of separation between the State and the church in the mixed areas of respect for the rule of law, as we have outlined at the time of the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u257	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u258	I also do not intend to support the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we assess that the Constitutional Court's decision or the Constitutional Court's opinion is possible and the power to understand is also different from what some Members imagine in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the law is legally inadmissible and is not materially necessary. We estimate that each of the Members who respects the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, its provisions, in particular Article 7, will vote against the said Agreement and thus allow the Constitution to be respected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u259	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The law was passed, of 61 present 44 voted in favour and 12 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 12.]] This concludes the agenda item. At the 8th item of the agenda, we have suspended the second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We will move on to a decision on the amendments tabled. I'm asking for peace. I'll make the decision slowly so there's no misunderstanding. We will first decide on the amendment of Article 6 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Excuse me? Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u260	I will not support this amendment alone. If I supported it, the situation would be the same as before, which means that the statutes defining these medals would be the government's domain. As we have now written, however, the statutes are an integral part of the law and if anyone wants to fix them, he must come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u261	We decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 6 of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on decorations. 61 present, 20 for and 37 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The same parliamentary group, the SDS Group, is also proposing an amendment to Article 11. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u262	I'm sorry I'm so short. I will support this amendment, although I absolutely disagree with its content, but it allows us to achieve the objectives mentioned here in the third reading. So I'm in.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u263	We're voting. 62 present, 58 for, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 12a. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I also disagree with this amendment, but I will vote for the same reason as before because it allows me to correct the law in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u265	Nobody else? So we can decide. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 62 in attendance, 58 in, no in. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold its third hearing at the next meeting of the National Assembly. With this item in this session, I also conclude. We are at the 9th item of the agenda, at the end of the 9th item of the agenda, on the second reading of the draft law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. We have two amendments to Article 1. We will first decide on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please, Comrade Kangler, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. I will personally support this amendment by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, because I think that the content of the debate, which took place both on the Internal Policy Committee and today at this meeting of the National Assembly, is most appropriate. I think it is well written enough and also gives its weight to the capital as the Ljubljanas, and I also appeal to you Members and Members to support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u267	Anyone else want a word? My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After all the debate, I would like to say that I will not support the first amendment for a reason because it lists what is of the state authorities in the capital. The second amendment does not even have a title and says that what will be regulated in the relevant laws or other acts will be in the capital. If we want the organs not to be prejudiced, then we need to support the second amendment, but not the first one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u269	My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. I think that it is very reasonable and precisely the listing of these authorities limits the ruling coalition or ruling position to determine what and where and who will be in which place. I think that this must be part of the legal matter, not that it will be decided on the basis of the current preferences of certain ruling circles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u271	I believe that we can move to a vote on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to Article 1. We're voting. 59 in attendance, 22 in and 27 in. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 27.]] We can now move to a vote on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, as well as Silva Črnugelj and colleagues Jerice Mrzel to Article 1. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 42 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. Since amendments to one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold its third hearing at the next meeting. That concludes this point. We are at the 11th item of the agenda - this is the suspension of the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and insurance. We're in the middle of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, so that the assembly may decide on the law. Then I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not notified you that the law would be inconsistent. Can we decide? The National Assembly will now decide on the bill. 62 present, 53 for and none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. We're at the last decision just a moment. [[...]] Yes, in the final decision of tonight's decision, paragraph 12 - third discusses the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on marriage and family relations. At this point, one amendment is tabled, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group at Article 18. We'll decide on the amendment first. We're voting. 61 in attendance, 26 in and 26 in. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. I think the government wants a word about coordination. Madam Secretary of State? It's about consistency. You have to say it. Mirkofon.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u272	There is also a need for a harmonisation amendment to Article 42.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-33.ana.u273	You have this amendment before you. Who wants to discuss the harmonisation amendment to Article 42? [[Nobody.]] Can the assembly decide? We will vote first on the amendment and then on the law. Please. We vote on the harmonisation amendment. 61 present, 46 for and none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] Now we can also make a full decision about the law. We're voting. Sorry, it's reset. We're voting. The law has been passed. 59 present, 47 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] This concludes this agenda item, the last item of today. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow, and we'll close it. I remind you that we have an afternoon vote that is secret and requires a qualified majority. This afternoon. Here, this afternoon. Yeah, just a little more. [[...]] [[A consultation.]] 17.15 are the votes. [[...]] Thank you very much. Good night.
