ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I was informed that you were detained and that today's meeting could not be attended by the following Member: Alojz Posedel and Aleš Gulič, from 3 p.m. on. You have received the proposed agenda, but at the beginning of the meeting I must inform you that the reports of the Committee on the 4th item, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, and the 5th item, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, have not yet been received, so these two points cannot yet be addressed. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that we proceed with item 6 of the agenda, but I would ask you to vote on this. A decision will not be taken if one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. Who is in favour of continuing the meeting of the assembly on agenda 6? I note that of the 71 Members present for proposal 62 and 8. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I believe that we can continue the meeting of the National Assembly with the 6th item of the agenda, which we have received the report of the State Assembly's mandate-holder committee. With regard to this item on the agenda, I would like to ask Vice-President Pečet to take over the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We're moving to six. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AN AMENDMENT LEGISLATION LAW, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The draft law has been tabled by a group of 11 Members for consideration by the assembly, so I ask that the representative of the Magi candidates take the floor. Branko Grims for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u3	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The Law That Is Before Us [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u4	Excuse me! Can I ask you to step into the middle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u5	If you want [[...]] The bill proposed is a logical consequence of the legislation already adopted, which is now about a year old, which has substantially changed the role of the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State will not in any new way be a function that combines administrative or professional work and political work, but will be a pure political function. The Secretary of State will be a new Deputy Minister. It is logical, therefore, to settle the matter with regard to Members who would possibly act in the same manner, in a manner that is proportionate to the regulation already established for those who take office as Minister. Let me draw attention to a few facts when this law has been misinterpreted in public. What we are talking about would only concern those Members who would serve as Secretary of State, thus becoming part of the executive branch of the Authority. They would then have a seat in the National Assembly, as now awaits the Minister, and, of course, an alternate Member would have done his work in the National Assembly. However, in the event of a discharge or a termination of his office, he has the right to return to his seat and, of course, the alternate Member must, in this case, say good-bye to the national assembly. In doing so, I point out the following. The draft law, which we will deal with a little later, abolishes the posts of ministers' councillors. However, the number of State secretaries has been drastically reduced by the changes already in force. The Secretary of State will no longer be 50, 60, as it was now, but more than a quarter of that number. That's what you're saying. It's a significantly lower number. And only those among them who would be elected or appointed to this post from the seat of a Member would be subject to this amendment, which we are talking about today. That's what they're saying. It's going to be more like a case. However, it is a simple fact that we allow a Member, which was in accordance with the legislation in force, to decide whether the electorate and the electorate in the elections is elected to the National Assembly, to retain all that comes from this function also in the event that it becomes part of the executive branch of the Authority. No more and no less. This is said not to give any new ratings to anyone, and we are not changing the system in any way, on the contrary, because of the circumstances I mentioned at the outset, this is said to be now the role of Deputy Minister, so we are simply harmonising the legal order so that it is fair and just for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u6	The draft law was considered by the Election Commission to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur of the Commission to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u7	Dear Members and Members of the House of Respect. You have received a report on the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on Members in writing. I would not read it, but I would like to stress one point concerning the consideration of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 1. I would like to point out once again that the Commission has held a debate on this amendment, but it has not decided on the proposal for this amendment, since it concerns substantively the decision not to adopt the proposal and not the amendment of the proposal. If the proposed amendment were to be voted on and adopted by the Commission, the amended bill would contain only one article, which is an implementing provision. However, such an amended bill cannot and does not make sense for the National Assembly to decide. To put it simply, the amendment referred to the deletion of Article 1 which represents the entire content of the law and in accordance with the opinion and after the discussion with the legislative and legal service, we have decided to withdraw the procedure in the context of the examination as I have stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u8	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes. You're giving up? [[Yeah.]] We continue with the representative of the Liberal Democracy Club of the Member States. Mrs. Bebler, you're giving up? [[Yeah.]] I ask you to make a second announcement on the name of the Member of Parliament who will present your position. Please, you have the floor. Please use the central speaking desk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! First of all, I would say that I do not know where it is stuck that the change in the position of the Liberal Democracy Group has not reached you. Secondly, I note that you are introducing a new practice, as it has been possible so far to present the position of the Group of Members from the parliamentary benches. As far as the law is concerned, I would say first that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we estimate that there is no correct claim by the applicants that the law is comparable to certain regulations in other countries. The UK and Italy are listed. In these cases, it is a completely different function and functioning of parliaments and the executive branch of authorities, since in these cases it is also the case that members of the government or officials in the executive branch are Members. I would also like to point out that the law allows for the possibility and high probability that it will also have financial implications for the state budget and is a burden on the state budget from this point of view. We find there is no reason to adopt this law. The current regime allows, irrespective of the new role of State secretaries, that a Member is appointed Secretary of State to act as Secretary of State to allow certain rights relating to the role of Secretary of State to go beyond the functions of the Secretary of State. So the only purpose of the law is to introduce new privileges, and this is not in line with what the motioners have been advocating until yesterday, when they were in opposition, when they have even introduced laws that would violate the rights of Members following the end of the Member's term of office. So it is only to protect future State secretaries with the right they can enjoy as Members. It could be said that there is a certain lack of confidence in future State secretaries or the fear of future State secretaries for their existence after the end of their term of office. The proposed solution introduces the possibility of abuse of the Institute of Immunity Instrument. What if a secretary of state who is to be appointed is persecuted or suspected of abuse of a position or other crime? It is possible that he will find himself again in the parliamentary bench and refer to immunity. In the past, in particular in the 1996/2000 mandate, we have already had a case where a Member has left the post of Secretary of State and is then relieved of his office or his office has ceased and it has not occurred to us to change the law and to give him certain special rights because he has ceased to serve as Secretary of State. Let me get this straight. Such an arrangement is possible, but is not comparable to other countries, is not hygienic and is not in line with the principles you have advocated so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u10	Thank you. I invite the representative of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We oppose the law supplementing the law on Members in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. The law is unacceptable and unnecessary in the proposed text. The law introduces new human resources privileges for potential secretaries of state. The law gives new powers to the Prime Minister to further replace at least 15 Members and Members of the National Assembly, if necessary on a number of occasions, all the way to the number of elected members of the coalition, by separate decisions. The law therefore increases the role of the executive authority vis-à-vis the national assembly. The law strengthens the political role of the government, as state secretaries will only be elected according to political criteria. The law points to the inadmissibility of the government majority for the constructive proposals of the opposition, the strong warnings and the nice words spoken yesterday are no longer valid today. Let it be clear that, with the proposal of the law, the future Prime Minister has an additional right, by the decision of the Government of the National Assembly, to designate 15 Members of Parliament and Members, to appoint 15 or an indefinite number of State Secretaries, the Prime Minister, from among the members of the State Council, to appoint those Members not to cease the function of a Member, but to be left alone and to return to them at any time, as long as they serve as State Secretaries, that alternate Members of Parliament will come to their place, including those, at the will of the Presidents of the parties to the ruling coalition, who may decide who will give their consent or not to the candidacy, and that, by means of a proposal to solve the rights of Members to one or two years after the end of their term, they will also be extended to State Secretaries. All of this is proposed by the ruling coalition, which until yesterday was against privileges, against clientism and against recruitment according to political criteria. The United List of Social Democrats wanted to be as cooperative and constructive as possible. We have proposed an amendment that would also allow alternate Members when appointing State secretaries, but would limit these rights to a common extent, as has been the case with the law so far, i.e. to the common scope of ministers. This coalition, which is talking about cooperation and offering the hand of the opposition on the working body, has not given a single vote for such an amendment, which would actually allow them everything they wanted, except unlimited human resources manipulation. We can't land on that. All their promises, i.e. future coalitions, that they do not want the possibility of unlimited personnel changes under political criteria, have thus become unworthy. So the coalition couldn't stay on for 24 hours with good promises. So she showed her true face, wants to have an unlimited influence on political recruitment and privileges. This law is unnecessary and shameful in our belief. The United List of Social Democrats cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u12	Thanks for the attitude. The following position will be presented by the representative of New Slovenia, Mr Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u13	Honourable Presidents, fellow Members and Members. The position of the United List and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is, of course, legitimate, but according to our assessment it is far too excessive. Let me remind you, when we changed the government law four years ago, the minister's council officers were introduced. Their number has not been determined, and ministerial councillors have, by privilege, been levelled with ministers, while secretaries who are in fact would say that the workers in the ministries belong to a much smaller privilege. It's only a three-month pay refund. However, what is being achieved by this law is that if any of the Members became Secretary of State, then his office in Parliament would be at peace. This, of course, does not marginalise the function of the National Assembly, as some say, because everyone chooses to do so if he becomes Secretary of State, as does the Deputy Member himself, if he becomes actually a Member. Let me draw attention to the fact that the legal and legal service did not have any comments on this law for legal and technical reasons. So it's a political decision of this national council. To talk about some major financial consequences, if this law is adopted, is, of course, entirely unfounded, unfounded at this point in time. If we are based on the practice of the previous part of the National Assembly, few ministers have returned to this Parliament. In the previous term, I think that there is only one minister, Mr Rupel, and also because of a web of circumstances, because he attended a convention for the Republic and then had to leave the ministerial team. It should also be thought that our Parliament is 90 members and the amendment of the United List, which was also presented here today, was that up to 15 Members could serve as State secretaries and then, if possible, return to Parliament if possible. I think that this number is also very large and that it will mainly be a case of some kind, maybe one, two, but of course it can be for none. It is also totally unwarranted to speak about immunity and through immunity to oppose this law, for it is necessary to know that immunity is granted by the national assembly in any case. The National Assembly decides whether or not to grant immunity to someone, and that then someone who acted as secretary would hide for immunity would, in fact, allow and decide that this is possible. The security guard is still at this level, certainly present. In New Slovenia we will support this bill. The solution is not something that would mean a great burden, both financially and in human resources terms. Only this possibility will be given for the government to be able to organise itself more simply and that the elected Member, which of us, may also become Secretary of State. If this option is used, it will, if it is not, but it will be right, but the law with our votes, with a satisfactory majority, will change in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u14	Thank you. I give the text to the Slovenian People's Party Group. Mr. Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u15	Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting when I first come forward with this mandate from this speaker's desk! The Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Members is very short and the position of the Slovenian People's Party will be short. You may have seen or know that the law that we are amending today with two articles is bearing the 1992 anniversary. Since then, at least as far as I know, all three references have tried to amend the provisions of the law several times, once for another reason, once for a third reason. I think that so far only some of the provisions of this law have been amended by a decision of the Constitutional Court, and probably those of you who are already a third or fourth term know what changed at that time or what the Constitutional Court has changed by a decision. Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the amendment of the Law or the amendment of the Law on Members because of the fact that all those who have been elected by the proportional electoral system have been effectively equalized, that if they go to another position, which is incompatible with the exercise of the function, they will return to what the people of the elections on 3 October this year in case of their decision, discharge or similar. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support amendments and additions to the Law on Members, and we expect that we will be able to do so in this mandate - but I think that in the first part of this mandate - we will be able to rewind this whole law, which, as I said, bears the year 1992.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u16	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u17	Your Honors are here! By adopting the proposal for the law under consideration, the post-a Member State's post-registration regime shall also extend to State secretaries. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, this amendment will also have an impact on the reduction of the number of State secretaries, which means to some extent the optimization of the state administration, which we know is absolutely necessary.If we look at the opinion of the legislature of the National Assembly, which does not have any comments on the proposal for a law, we can find that the law is in conformity with the law and with the other rules. Therefore, we will not oppose the bill in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u18	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u19	Dear Vice President! Dear Members and Members! Our Group of Members had many concerns when it read the amendment proposal, but it will support this law for a number of reasons. The first is that we expect the position of the newly created Secretary of State, who is supposed to be the Deputy Minister, to be different and better than the current position of Secretary of State. Second, because we are convinced that the open possibility of theoretical abuse will not be exploited and that manipulation in this sense will be rare or will not be at all. We believe that in this way we are contributing to a faster process of forming a new government, and in this regard we will support this law with these comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Presentation of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Mr. Battelli? He quit? [[He's not here.]] We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, this is the decision on the proposal for a law. We'll start by voting. Please check your voting devices. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Before the vote begins, you have the opportunity to explain your vote. Does anyone have a wish? Please, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I am surprised by the great consensus on this proposal and that I am aware that you are all somehow fighting for who will become Secretary of State between you, because this is actually what this proposal is about. If I quote the motioner, Mr Grims: "...this is an isolated case." This is an individual case of the Secretary of State or the Member of State will be transferred to the Secretary of State. Let us be aware that today we are adopting a system regime that can have major systemic and financial implications, theoretically, because of one or two individual cases.I am very interested in who wants those so-called ones, let us say, the privileges that will take place after he has returned to the post of Secretary of State and returned to the ranks of Members just before the end of his term of office. It is not ethical, not moral, nor reasonable, that because of the so-called single case, we adopt legislation in a quick manner without question, justification and, of course, comparisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u23	Of course, I clearly cannot support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u24	I ask the other Members, if they are so right to their colleagues and colleagues, that when they have the floor, they should not be disturbed. Thank you. In addition, a colleague of Dara Lavtišar Bebler applied to explain her vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that. A well-respected choir. I will not support this law on my own, for one of the main reasons of systemic nature. The State secretaries are not members of the government under our regime, but are ministers and are politically not responsible to Parliament, as is the case with ministers, but are responsible to the Minister or Prime Minister. In addition, it follows from the independence of the legislative branch that the other branch of power cannot determine its composition. However, when Parliament appoints its member as Minister, it shall autonomously decide that that person shall no longer be a member of it until he has the mandate of Minister and shall therefore be replaced by a Deputy Member. However, the proposal of the emerging coalition foresees that the government will autonomously set up and dispose of officials who would be subject to the same privileges as ministers, thereby individually changing the composition of the second branch of government. In our regulation, ministers are privileged to return to Parliament because they are politically bound and accountable to Parliament. If a minister who has been elected an employee loses the confidence of the majority in Parliament and for another reason terminates his mandate, he may return there. In the framework of our arrangement, I see two solutions: whether it has been granted as before, and whether it has been waived by the secretaries of the State, or whether the secretaries of the State, we raise them to a new category of ministers, and therefore we appoint them as members of the government. But that means we send them to the Parliament for verification and appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer applied to explain his vote. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, vote against this proposal to amend this law for two reasons. The first is the systemic one that Bebler's colleague has already said and basically says it's two ways of being named. Ministers are appointed here by us in the National Assembly and are also responsible to this National Assembly, and State secretaries can, on a proposal from the Minister, appoint a government in any government to a new or special one. However, as a second argument, I would have warned the applicants, because I am a new Member in this National Assembly and I have been given a bit of training and a bit of research on the basis, in 1997, you are the same person who is proposing this amendment to the Law today, on 16.6.1997 also tabled amendments to the Law on Members, explaining the following objectives of amending this Act. With the proposed amendments to the Law on Members, former Members will have only half the salary they would receive if Members were without functional allowances after the end of their term of office. That's where O is. K. But the explanation goes on: "We would also force highly educated and capable staff, such as most Members, not to sit at home, but because of their ambitions and desires, the need for more income, to work as quickly as possible and contribute to the greater and faster development of the country." If this proposal of yours is going this way, then of course I don't understand things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u28	Thank you. Dr. Mark Pavliha below.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u29	Thank you. The proposal to supplement the Law on Members in my eyes is nothing more than a clever formula for perpetrating as many privileges, privileges as possible, which are neither legal nor ethical nor moral nor electoral. That is why, of course, I cannot support such a law as a lawyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u30	Thank you. Comrade Pavel Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u31	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll support the marriage. But I do have a very simple question. Ladies and gentlemen of the LDS, sitting here, have you returned your cars, Minister's?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u32	Please comply with our rules and explain your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u33	Yeah, I'll do it. So that we do not go around the privileges, Mr President, if you leave me, please, around the privileges that you will not give us any privileges that our secretaries will now go. Question is, did you return your office flats when you took office?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u34	Comrade Pavel Rupar, I remind you once again that this is an explanation for the voice. Please, if you'll hold on to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u35	I'm the one who's explaining my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u36	There's no debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u37	I would like to ask you another question: Why did the former Prime Minister sit in a business car yesterday and the current new Prime Minister didn't have this option? There are only so many privileges around here. And we can count it if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u38	Thank you. A colleague named Franz Kangler applied for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I will personally support the Law on Members or Amendments. In some ways, however, I am surprised that some of the new Members in this mandate who have come to this esteemed assembly speak in such a way that these are individual privileges. I am sure, and those who know the functioning of the National Assembly, the government, that if any of the envoys sitting here today decide that the future government coalition will leave this place and be appointed Secretary of State, this will not be a privilege. It is about the obligations and duties that he will assume as a Member. It is the obligations and duties of certain tasks that he will have to perform. And at this point in time, to be Secretary of State at any ministry, there are no privileges, only an additional burden for an individual. If anyone thinks that he is privileged in this way that he has been elected to the National Assembly and when he is allowed to do so, if for such or other reasons he ceases to serve as Secretary of State to return to this place, I am sure that he will find that he was in the wrong today in the course of his work in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u40	Thank you. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The legislature argued that the proposal for a law was compatible with other legislation and the Constitution. So those arguments made by Mrs Beblerev do not hold, say, there is consistency. As far as privilege is concerned, let us tell you what privileges are. Privileges are what is illegal and illegal, and someone in the name of authority is imputed. All of us who were elected belong to what is legal, because no one wrote anything extra that is not. So let's give it a little less easy to deal with. However, to deal with this in terms of the level of wages and this, we can, of course, do these comparisons, whether we deserve less than the Minister, whether it is justified or not, these discussions are, of course, admissible. Our programme also states that Slovenia needs a slightly more flexible way of regulating working relationships or performing functions. This is certainly a contribution to this. When I give an opinion or an explanation of why I will support this, I would like to replicate Mr Kumr at the same time. That is exactly what I hope, this flexibility and that the good Members will be hired, will happen, that the good Members of the Minister or the Chief of Government will withdraw and do so. So we've also met these conditions. On the basis of the above, I will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u42	Thank you. Mag. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u43	Thank you. I must say that, after some opposition, I am no longer surprised that their parties have lost their vote because they are obviously unaware of the challenges ahead. It can happen that already in this mandate Slovenia will preside over the European Union as a whole. The current regime is really nothing more than artificially restricting the selection of staff. However, the aim of these changes is to make it as flexible as possible. And above all, there is obvious manipulation and falsehood in opposition. Let me just mention two. There is talk of State secretaries as a whole when it is in fact clear that this concerns only those who have been previously elected as Members. And there's always talk about some new privileges. Again, the truth is quite the opposite, because only change means nothing but that what someone gained by electing to Parliament, that it is also waiting for him to keep what is waiting for him, that his seat in Parliament is also waiting for him. It's all about today's change and nothing else. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u45	I will support this proposal for the reason that there will also be more people sitting in the government who have parliamentary practice in order to increase the importance and dignity of the National Assembly. So far it has been happening - and in the future it will also be so, for the sake of the young country - that they are ministers who do not have a parliamentary practice day. And it also happened that they behaved very unworthyly in the National Assembly, even as candidates for ministers. Ministers and the government must always be aware that their mandate is coming from here, that the supervisory authority is here. And this will help - those who leave these benches for State Secretaries will be well aware of this and will not insult the National Assembly. For this reason, I think that we are also contributing to a greater public profile of the state assembly, making Parliamentary democracy more comparable to European parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u46	Thank you. My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I also did not object four years ago to the fact that the then mandate-holder, in terms of forming the content of the government, also in terms of human resources, was opposed to establishing ministerial councilors as far as possible. And I don't object to that today. The mandate, whoever it is, must have a wide range of opportunities to set up their goal or their projects with the necessary staffing structure. There is no harm in seeing in any of the Members such a frame that it can be usefully used in the executive branch of power. But it's a shame, and today I'm going to support it, that today some psychiatrists rely on the word "privileged" or the word "privileged". The privilege is, above all, in my view, that if someone became Minister three months before the end of the government, he did not even face the fact of what this work brings, and he had the privilege of having a ministerial salary for a year. You see, this is a privilege, and today these people are taking such an abuse. And for this reason, of course, I will be happy to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I apologize to my fellow Members and colleagues, who, above all, in the introductory presentations have very modestly justified their reason for adopting this law. I understand that they had, as they say, a "nodle in the throat" because they couldn't find any clever argument because there's no intelligent argument. However, those arguments that were later made in the debates are thus attracted to the hair that the damage is serious to polynomise with them. Look, we're not talking about a working relationship. We're talking about political functions. We claim ourselves that you want a great deal of flexibility. You also want it so that, as you are now saying, three months before the end of the term, the State secretaries may come to Parliament and enjoy back the rights they have as Members. To talk about the best members going to the government for ministers or secretaries of state means exactly what we said. What does that mean? On the contrary, the worst remain in Parliament. I don't see any other argument. You probably don't want that. We have warned, however, that we want Parliament to remain quality, at the will of the people as it has been elected, but not that anyone can remember at any moment, and one, the other, takes the third from Parliament and appoints him Secretary of State. There are no serious arguments, and I believe that you have imagined this and that this must be accepted. Thank you for first chance we're talking about content, showing you how to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now I am even more confident that I will support this law, even personally, for one simple reason, because those who oppose it are talking about certain privileges. And if it's a privilege for someone to go back to that function that the electorate entrusted him with, then if you could, you'd press two keys.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. Hello, all my colleagues and colleagues. I will also support the proposed amendment or amendment of the law on Members. I do not agree with the concerns about the increase in privileges, and I also disagree with the concerns about the increase in costs. On the other hand, we must bear in mind that the function of State secretaries under the laws to be dealt with under the next item has actually been changed and the number of State secretaries will be significantly smaller under the new regime than has been the case so far. The number or the function of ministerial councillors is also abolished, which is not in the interest of the concerns raised. In addition, I believe that we should not restrict the Prime Minister to trying to find in the executive branch the best team he believes will be able to implement the programme he has set up. In this case, there is no reason why I should not seek out this team within the Members. If, of course, at the end of work in the State Administration or in the post of Secretary of State in case a Member decides to do so, which would rather be an exception than a rule, given that this transition actually leads to a lower status, however, in view of everything, [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] [[.....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] As a Member, of course, he must retain all the rights he has received by this election. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u54	Thank you. A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The fact that state secretaries can only be experienced Members, as has been said, does not appear in the law, but I am genuinely afraid of it. If you can, Mr Pukšič, if you cannot be Minister to be Secretary of State, I fear this little thing. But what is a problem in this proposal is that this proposal actually undermines this structure in the constitution on the autonomy of individual branches of government and from these exceptions. There's been a lot of talk about that. In any event, through this instrument, a number of secretaries from the Member States may be instrumentalised by the National Assembly. And that's not good. However, it cannot bear the key argument that has been written if it is necessary to construct the government as soon as possible. That's not true. The Government may be constituted and Members or Members may become State secretaries. When they ran, they knew they'd lose their mandate in such a case. This is a moral issue at this point. That's what they knew, that's how they ran, and the voters would hypothetically forgive them if they were ministers, but they can't stand this privilege. They may be secretaries of state, but they do not want to be for a simple reason, because the parliamentary function really brings what is referred to here with one word of privilege. Vote that, but that means you're undermining the structure and extending the privilege, not narrowing it down. That's the problem with your promises.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u56	Thank you. Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The Secretary of State and the Secretary of State, they're a couple. In fact, so far, state secretaries have become more or less professional supporters. The Secretary of State is the only one who can only manage the tasks of the political work of the Ministry. Why did I say a couple? Because the relationship between the Minister and the Secretary of State must be so close, trust is so hard to work without each other. If there is an interpolation or successful interpolation, if there is a change of government and a fly-off minister, I can't imagine this secretary of state flying with him. It would be unfair for this Secretary of State not to be offered the opportunity to return to the place where he was, if he was elected to the National Assembly. I think it would actually be harmful, because the minister would not have the opportunity or the difficulty of finding a suitable co-worker, as many of the people sitting here today in Parliament could potentially be a suitable co-worker of the minister. And that, in my opinion, would, above all, be the content and, not least, the possibility of a better part of the government being thwarted. I do not understand dear colleagues from the Liberal Democracy, how they take this for additional privileges. For I have been a secretary of state, and I am also a Member of State, and I know that, even after the new role of Secretary of State, it is, in particular, one great responsibility and not least, I would say, putting ahead of new, worse challenges than here. So I don't think it's a privilege for anyone to go back to this house from such pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u58	Thank you. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The proposed amendments to the Government Act cannot be supported in any way, and I think that my colleagues and those who advocate this have very great difficulties and there is also discomfort in finding arguments for this solution. I do not think there is any obstacle that the mandate-holder we appointed here yesterday will take, as has been said, whether or not he pulls anyone out of Parliament. There is no obstacle and any Member will be able to become Secretary of State. I think it is sad that, in fact, at the first session, at the first point of content, colleagues who have been full of the oral benefits of the Slovenian people and similar matters in the past month, we are adopting a law on their proposal to extend rights, not a privilege, but a right to a whole range of people and to a very wide range of people. But I think it's also a reflection that's right to emphasize it, and it's been repeatedly denied. Perhaps this is also a reflection of the human resources deficit of those who will set up a new government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u60	Thank you. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u61	If I leave aside the fact that the law does not contain the relevant components that I should have to compare with at least three countries, because those with Great Britain are not appropriate, nor with Italy, because this is a completely different system. If I leave aside that there are no financial consequences, and so on what the law should have, then of course I must say why I cannot actually support this law. Because I do not think that the National Assembly can become a transitional home to which we will enter and exit, as the current day's will of the mandate-holder, or even more, a minister who will be able to appoint a designated Secretary of State himself. However, the way the government is appointed is prescribed and has a procedure that runs through the National Assembly, with a hearing, with confirmation here and can also be resolved. And this way, which is now being introduced as State secretaries to extend this possibility, is quite different. So, theoretically, every Thursday, when government meetings are held, substitutions can happen. And this simply does not mean that we will go into any special procedures, but we will simply switch Members in these places. If anything is important, it is important for Parliament to remain Parliament, that what is incompatible is simply incompatible, and that each one decides what to do. I believe that someone who might even want to go to the secretary will give up the seat of the Member. That's legitimate. That's what it's been like so far. Of course, it's a fact. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u62	My friend Anderlich, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u63	That political will is strong enough, and there's nothing here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u64	Thank you. Next up is Dr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Of course, we can say a lot of things, but the fact is that this law increases the costs of state administration, increases public spending. We have all advocated that the state apparatus act more rationally, that the rights of the officials are spreading. Of course, I will vote against this law, but I am already looking forward to it, and I hope that one of the economists will calculate in what way and how much we have potentially increased the costs of the state administration if you succeed in voting on this law. I will, of course, vote against it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u66	Thank you. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Whatever you take, it is undeniable that this law increases the scope of the benefits for State secretaries as well. You can, of course, like Mr Rupar, insult us, your colleagues, now Members, former ministers, whether they are driving with a car or not, whether they are using a business phone or not. There's something else. You can do all of this. Like Mr Jerovšek, now and in the past four years, and in the past four years, he can treat ministers according to normal communication standards. You can do all of this. There is still one simple and simple fact. This law extends the benefits, privileges or whatever you want, has budgetary implications and needs to be looked into the eyes, whatever you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I think we're experiencing a time of metamorphosis these days. I saw Mr Grimes behind this speaking stage when he explained that the Law on Members was such that the State Council gave him veto because of his privileges. But now I see the second time he's here explaining that a certain part of his privileges are being reestablished. It seems to me that the two concepts, the Minister and the Secretary, are very different, not working together, but by who elected them, what powers they had and so on. And it seems to me that it does not show - and thus degrades the status of a Member of the National Assembly - their privileges to extend indefinitely to other functions. Which bothers me personally, but here's the thing. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we will now have "de luxe" state secretaries and "usual", "embassies" secretaries. "De Luxe" secretaries will be able to enjoy three months after the end of their term of office and at that time they will be able to return to new services, and these "political" secretaries will go to the National Assembly and enjoy all parliamentary privileges for a fine one year. It's not okay, it's not okay, I'm saying that we're doing these things today at the first meeting of the National Assembly. From the new coalition, or at least from the parliamentary group that won the highest votes in the elections, I expected the bill to be fully resolved. That means, from the incompatibilities of the mayor's functions, if you remember, to the status of a Member as such. Such a partial solution, which we have here today and which we are talking about, sheds a very bad light on the position or, if you wish, on the Social Democratic Party and also on the conduct of the National Assembly as a whole. I think we have enough time to do these things. That's why I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u70	May I have your attention, please? My friend Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u71	Nice greeting on my part, too! I do not believe that my words will change the course of events, but as a new Member I would like to express my opinion on what is happening today and the previous days. When I listen to colleagues that I have been following through the media so far, I cannot really understand the transformation that has taken place in the former radical critics of everything that the previous position has suggested; think about it in particular, but it is your business. All words in the pre-election campaign on reducing public spending or public spending fall through such decisions. However, do not hide yourself because, of course, you have now changed legislation on state administration or on Members today. It has been changed by those who sat in the previous Parliament and those who have reduced spending in this way. But this consumption will increase again today. You are or are actually going to be completely devalued by your conduct in the election institute. So, on the one hand, we say, here are the "better" Members, now you say, "these better" Members will be given as secretaries; you will obviously be followed by some worse Members. I don't know, Mr Jerovšek and Mr Pukšič, I think you'll imagine if you don't come to the secretarial position; they're probably the "bad" Members who will be sitting with those who will come as alternate Members. And I don't think there's any need to get carried away - that's a privilege. So, it's a privilege, one year to get something. Manoeuvring, so chaining these positions seems unhygienic, and so it's actually a privilege. I will vote against, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u72	Thank you. Here comes Mrs. Potter. Mr Jerovšek, please allow your colleague to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. I will not support the proposed law. I am convinced that any extension of the circle of beneficiaries to a right also means actually a higher cost. And I look forward to the calculations of a famous Slovenian economist who was able to compare cultural spending with saving the lives of patients, which I thought was unethical, but that's another question. If a marriage allows for a solution, it is not said that no one will take advantage of it. This is where practice learns differently. Let us just think of a number of highly educated people who have taken advantage of the right to a one-year remuneration for ministerial salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u74	Thank you. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. Those who talk about costs, of course, have no proof of this and you will be able to talk about it only after a certain period of time. Probably at the end of the term, not today, when we are at the beginning of this term. This law gives the possibility that someone elected as an MP will become a secretary and then eventually be able to return to the National Assembly. Once again, it follows from practice that this has not happened often so far, of course, with regard to ministers. The ministers didn't come back. It is true, however, that the LDS put before the elections a number of new ministers who declared themselves independent and then, within a week or fourteen days, all marched in line as members of liberal democracy to the elections as well. So you are probably coming from this experience when you want to continue to convince the public and all the others, what will be the disastrous consequences of this law, which we are changing today, for the Slovenian country. I think that all of us who have already been to Parliament have realized that, in fact, the secretaries of state are at the ministry's garages, and if I have to say so myself, it would be difficult to decide to leave Parliament as Secretary of State. It would be difficult to make a decision, because what Comrade Visjak said is true, it is a completely different job and it is much better to be a Member. However, if someone decides to do so, they will help the government, and of course it is right, and I think it is appropriate for him to have a seat in Parliament for this time and that, if something unexpected happens, he can return to this national assembly. However, I am sure that there will be no major returns here, as well as many Members will not be appointed as secretaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Luci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't like to argue too much, but I think the discussion is going in the wrong direction. We started by discussing the privileges. My fellow Members, you do not have too many privileges and I would not like to discuss this further, because it harms all of you, both of you. I will support the law, because I think it is proposed correctly, it has the legal basis, as the Committee on Legal Affairs has found. And I was worried about that. Weak and good Members: Where are the weightings respected by Comrade Potsch? Where are the weights for the bad and the good? Who thinks they're bad and good? Who are the bad and the good, and what are the bad and the good? Let us not divide ourselves into bad and good, neither wave against us, but look around us. In short, even this discussion [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Because I think he's insulting. [[...]] We're Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u78	Mr Luci, it is an explanation of the vote, please, if you stick to this and do not disable the debate or ask for an answer when you know that you are not allowed or that the person addressed will not be able to receive it. Please, hold on to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u79	That's the only thing that stabbed me, and that's why I signed up for the debate, and I'm going to continue to discuss it. There's no fear of anything terrible happening. Yesterday was a discussion all the time, I'm afraid, we're afraid of what's gonna happen and what's gonna happen. I'm worried about what our public debt is. These are the legitimate fears, and we leave the other fears behind.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u80	Thank you. Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u81	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that such a law came at the first meeting and that, as the first point of content, it will be addressed in the national assembly. I am particularly happy because it is now evident that I was right when I asked and suggested to my client not to enter this coalition. Because of the fact that the wolf clearly changes the hair of miracles and that all those hundreds and hundreds of hours that have been lost in the past two mandates have been the Members, and in particular the President of the Democratic Party of Slovenia, of course, have witnessed corruption, customerism and so forth to the two governments of that time, that this is now going to end up in something else and that voters will be able to monitor and determine at the first meeting of the National Assembly what really happened, what was promised to the electorate and what was really promised. In particular, I argue that this is a tool for the intimidation of alternate Members, and therefore, of course, I will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u82	Thank you. Since I don't see desire anymore - I apologize, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Comrade Squeakle. [[...]] Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. I will not support this marriage. Yesterday, in my presentation on today's topics, I said that, of course, when the lights go out of point 1, yesterday's session or this meeting of the National Assembly, we will be taking on important things today. I cannot accept the law because we have also said that there are many reasons, the first but most important is in the constitution: Members are representatives of all people and are not bound to any instructions. What is proposed by this law is that more than one third of the members of this National Assembly will become ministers or secretaries of State and will be subordinated as secretaries of State. I am interested in the structure of the party members who will be sent by the State secretaries to some other party ministers. Next. I will not support it either, because something was said yesterday, of course, which is not respected today. Yesterday, the candidate said, "I also promise to respect the opposition as an integral part" and so on. This is not happening today, even more, Mr President of the Parliamentary Group said that they would respect the opinions of the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly. I wonder if you will respect that at a point called the government law, where it is said that this matter is contrary to the Constitution. Therefore, ladies and Members of Parliament, you must decide whether you are members of the Slovenian people or are subordinate ministers to the State Secretarys of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As has been said, in order for this to be easier for you, you will be able to return three months before the end of your term or the day before the end of your term of office and you will be granted one year's salary in accordance with your parliamentary privileges. That's why I can't support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It's just a short comparison. If, at present, 53 State secretaries who have the right to a three-month refund and if, according to a new one, some 15 State secretaries have the right to a refund of 12 months, that is the same number. So there's no financial implications. Everyone will never benefit from this compensation. The possibilities for those who would benefit from the 12 months are lower than for those who would benefit from the refund for three months. So this argument about the financial consequences is not justified. However, I understand this proposal in particular from the perspective of the highest possible quality of government composition, which of course does not mean that we are worse or better here, but we are certainly in our capacity, given the assessment of what will make up the government. Maybe someone could do more good if he's a secretary of state or a minister than if he's sitting here. There we have the case of five ministers sitting now in the parliamentary benches, who were also sitting at the beginning of the previous term and who were being drawn by the then mandate-holder as ministers because he estimated that he could form a good government team and thus did not mean to the other Members that they were worse than they were. In this sense, I see this as just a desire to form a quality government as high as possible. I am sure that each of us will think hard about whether or not he will go from the bench to the post of Secretary of State, and I am sure that these cases will be very few. However, I think the problem in this debate is also because the agenda is now replaced. If we had dealt with previous laws earlier, the situation would probably be different now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u86	We can now proceed to the vote. We're starting the vote. With 79 Members present, 48 votes against 27. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 27.]] This shows that the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the second point of the agenda, the point that we planned as a starting point at 1300 hours. Mr. Vice President, if you'll take over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the government law. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 11 Members. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Master Branko Grimes, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. After us are the elections and, of course, at each election, the parties offer their candidates and their programme to the voters. Those who have been confirmed in the elections and currently constitute a future coalition of the new Slovenian Government, of course, have all the legal and legitimate right to align the government structure with the objectives they have presented in the programme and for which they have received legitimate confirmation in the elections. This time too, of course, the team wants to do so so that it is possible to appoint a government in line with the new structure. Rather, it would be possible to make this government as effective as possible and at the same time give all the essential elements for the most rational organisation of the state administration as a whole. The proposal that lies ahead of us is, of course, all of you already know. It foresees the abolition of the functions of ministerial councillors, which, together with a severely limited number of State secretaries, I have already mentioned, will certainly make the future Slovenian government cheaper. And so it is completely wrong and malicious to interpret the interpretation that we have encountered in the past days, when someone will pay for it. The question is, how will we use the resources we save in this way? The Ministry, which has not justified its existence, will be abolished, which is not only an assessment of the current team, but you have been able to read it in professional journals in the past period. It is the Ministry of Information Society, a relatively small ministry, which, as I said, has in practice not justified all expectations and therefore makes sense its allocation among the other ministries. Of course, this does not mean that all those activities that are meaningful and necessary for the normal functioning of society and the state as a whole would not be maintained. On the contrary. They will continue to be carried out only in a more rational and organisational manner. In addition, the division of the current Ministry of Education, which also did not justify, as a single ministry, everything likely to have been achieved by merger at the time, namely, that we will continue to have the Ministry of Education and Sport. However, scientific and university work will be excluded from the new Ministry for Higher Education, Science and Technology. This way, according to the assessment of the emerging Slovenian governments, will be able to give knowledge and science the emphasis and weight it certainly earns in the face of the development challenges that Slovenia will face, as I have pointed out earlier, in the coming period. In addition, I would like to point out that we wanted to take all the proposals and comments as far as possible at the time of the creation of this proposal and that we have therefore attached some of the proposed amendments, two of them now being included, on the basis of the comments made by the professional public or, in one case, to the amendment of one of the parties. In this case, it was the National Party. Therefore, I would like to point out that the proposal for a law is supplemented by the original text, by taking into account the comments of the legal service which requested the regulation of the period prior to the appointment of the new government, in short, from the application of this law to the appointment of a new government, when a certain legal void could take place after their assessment. This is regulated by a new Article 8 and an additional Article 6 is added, which obliges the Government to ensure, of course, that, through the appropriate organisation of the administrative apparatus through the regional units and expositions, administrative services are evenly accessible throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was regarded as the home working body of the Internal Policy Committee. I ask the rapporteur or rapporteur of the Committee, Ms Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! At its 1st urgent meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act, submitted in a reduced procedure by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Janez Janša. The drafter provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill, as we have just heard in the previous paragraph. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service expressed its concerns about the proposed solutions in Article 5 of the draft law, which brings together the matter now regulated by Articles 22, 25a and 25b of the Government Act, and further identified itself to the other amendments tabled and proposed. In the debate on the draft law and amendments, some members and members of the committee highlighted the need to place higher education in the school ministry, the sense of a separate European Affairs Department and, once the Ministry of Information Society has been maintained, others once again opposed it and defended the proposed solution. The Committee thus adopted the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 6 but did not adopt the amendments of the LDS Club of Members and the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to Article 1. In addition, the Committee has adopted an amendment to Article 8 which is contained in the report, the part of which is also supplemented by a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, SDS. [[He's quitting.]] I give my word to the LDS representative, Dr. Paul Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the LDS Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act. As we have already mentioned many times, in the Group of Members, we recognise the legitimate right of the new coalition and the Prime Minister to intervene in the structure and organisation of the government and in line with the preferences and objectives that the Government wants to achieve. However, such changes require a certain degree of caution and careful analysis of the current functioning and structure of the government, as well as an analysis of the experience to avoid causing the consequences you did not want and did not expect. The bill, as already mentioned, brings some organizational changes that I will not list because they have already been presented. I could say the following to these changes. The division of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is unnecessary and unfounded. Such a division, if it had such a ministry, would make sense, say, in the 1990s and today is unnecessary and harmful. Why? Some regulatory and daily tasks, if you want, in these areas go to relatively autonomous agencies, to the Science Agency, the Technology Agency and the Higher Education Agency. Together with these tasks, they come from these ministries, both the ministries of economy and education, science and sport, including people. And after that calculation, at this new ministry, when all of this happened, there would be only about 30 or more employees. You're reading to the Ministry of Information Society that it doesn't justify its existence because it's too small, and it has 52 people, and it's only going to have 30 people. If you want to keep it at all, you'll have to increase it substantially. The abolition of MID is particularly controversial because part of the competence for electronic communications and mail is transferred to the Ministry of the Economy and the rest is somehow airborne and indisposed. The uniform scope for information society infrastructure and services is abolished, which is the worst. The biggest advantage of this ministry was in this regard, and this is being abolished today. I would like to stress in particular that here I cannot agree with the report of the committee which, in the second indent of point 2, says that this ministry is being abolished because it has not justified its existence. The debate on this, which was not substantive on this Committee and also this committee has no real competence to discuss this. Otherwise, it should be written about the abolition of the minister, not the ministry, because it's a government law, and there's a different law. And that is why, of course, I must say that I am strange and we will use that business option that allows these things to change. This was not the subject of discussion and cannot be the subject of a report either. But it can be Mrs Grims' personal opinion, of course. The amendment, which will establish the post of Minister of Higher Education, Science, Technology, Information Society, was rejected. More about that in the next marriage. Aware of the importance of coordination of European matters, which is obviously under-appreciated, we have proposed to include in the law the provision that at least one minister without a charter would be responsible for European affairs. This was not accepted either, although we believe that this would be a very useful solution. We also draw attention to the strong comments made by the legislative and legal services which the proponents have ignored and therefore expose themselves to the risks of the normal functioning of ministries and governments. Your Honor! With our amendments and advice, which are also based on experiences, good and bad, we have tried to help, and to accept coherent and meaningful changes that everyone can also support. I'm afraid we ran into a wall. The pure political will and the power of voting have ignored the power of argument, even though real concern has sometimes been revealed from the face. I think this is a bad start, but the new government will pay. The MPs won't back the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat on behalf of the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to present to you the opinion of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we recognize the democratic right of the elected government to decide on its own organisation once it has decided which organisation of ministries and state administrations will be the most effective implementation of its programme. That is why we do not intend to hinder it in any way, but we join in the right to present our views and warnings. The proposed division of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is thus the solution which, according to the UK Group of Social Democrats, can be seen as possible, not as an urgent solution. Therefore, we are not opposed to the whole division and therefore, on the Internal Policy Committee, we did not oppose the independence of science in relation to technology into a single ministry. However, we have serious concerns about the proposed integration of higher education into this area and thus its exclusion from the single ministerial base, which would cover the entire educational vertical. We believe that, in order to ensure the integrity of the school system and to preserve the uniform concept of education, regardless of the level of education, the number and age of the participants should remain within one ministry. So far, the organisations of the Ministry and the institutions associated with the work of the Ministry speak in favour of our view. We advocate quality public education, and also due to the transparency and comparability of public funding, such organisation is more appropriate. Last but not least, the experience of most European countries confirms such an oragnization. Of course, from yesterday's speech by the Prime Minister, it can be recorded that there are also major changes in education and it is likely that such division is linked to conceptual solutions, as we are not tempted to link it to personal reasons. However, as it is said, the government's responsibility is taken over by the coalition. It also knows why, despite the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service, it supported a supplement that only summarizes Article 43 of the Law on State Administration and is now found in Article 6 of the amended proposal of the Act. In order to make the situation clearer, allow me to quote to you Article 43, which is placed in a chapter that speaks of the territorial organisation of the administration. It speaks of administrative units and other forms of territorial organisation. He says: "In order to carry out the administrative tasks which their nature requires to be organised territorially, administrative units operate. The area of administrative units shall be determined by the government by regulation. Areas of administrative units shall be determined in such a way as to ensure the rational and efficient performance of administrative tasks. The administrative unit shall normally cover the territory of one or more local communities." And also a very important third paragraph: "If the law so provides, the performance of administrative tasks which, due to their nature, need to be organised territorially shall be provided in regional units, expositions or otherwise named dispersed units of ministries or bodies in their composition." This is therefore the text of the current Article 43 of the Law on State Administration. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, therefore, does not interfere with the adoption of the law because it has sufficient support and because we believe that the Government must act as soon as possible. However, it will not support the law in such a form.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u96	Honourable Presidents, fellow Members and Members. We have a change of government law ahead of us. Above all, this law is about a desire to better organise the work of government departments and a desire for a more coordinated functioning of the state administration. With the proposal before us, some news is proposed. First of all, this amendment establishes the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. The Ministry of Science and Technology or Technological Development, as it was called, was abolished four years ago when part of the appointed director joined the Ministry of Education and partly the Ministry of Economy. Thus, two large-scale ministries were created, spread over the work cycle and in scope. In Nova Slovenije we estimate that such organisation has caused certain organisational problems and inefficiency. The inefficiency of the economic ministry, which has also been joined by the Ministry of Economic Relations and for a small economy and tourism, has often been criticised by even members of the ruling coalition, not to mention the opposition. Now that the Republic of Slovenia has become part of the European Union, we are facing new challenges. We want to become a society based on knowledge and information. We are working with other members of the European Union to achieve a common development vision, the so-called Lisbon Strategy. In order to achieve this goal, we will have to connect the university more closely with science and place it even more in the development function. By 2010, we will have to double our investment in research and development. Of course, it will be very important how we use the funds invested. Today, due to the wrong education strategy in the past, we have a lot of staff from social schools and too little in the technical field. This is due to the misdirection of the school ministry and, of course, it will not be possible to fix this overnight. However, it will certainly be necessary to create the conditions for this to change and that investments in this area will have the greatest possible impact, especially where we feel deficit. In terms of strengthening the technological innovation potential of the Slovenian economy, which will also be able to develop more demanding technologies and programmes with higher added value, we propose the establishment of this ministry. The second amendment introduced by this amendment to the law is the establishment of a Ministry of Public Administration. Undoubtedly, we need in this country the rational functioning of the so far dispersed services of the state administration, an effective public administration, which will act as a service for citizens and businesses. If you ask Slovenians today what they think about public administration, you will get justifiably many critical answers, even though we know that many good and quality people are doing in this administration. The public administration must provide a friendly administrative environment. Of course it's not right now. Let me give you just one example from the last election. Instead of obtaining tax numbers for members of the electoral boards or identity cards for members of the constituencies, we had to provide this to these political parties. What kind of work it is, only those who did it know. In short, it is the unconnected functioning of state institutions and therefore indirectly to obstruct citizens' rights. This Ministry of Public Administration will have a lot to do if it wants to remove unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles for citizens, entrepreneurs. There will be a lot of work to do if we actually want to reduce the costs of the functioning of the state administration. It will be necessary to remove new obstacles that are often referred to by public sector institutions in the execution of their mission. In New Slovenia we are convinced that most citizens want a better, more effective public administration and that this ministry will justify these expectations. Initially, it was suggested that local self-government would work in this ministry, but later it left the proposal in coordination. Within this Ministry, the development of electronic commerce and the integration of all databases will continue, i.e. part of the tasks performed so far by the Ministry of Information Society. This proposal provides for the abolition of the Ministry of Information Society. This ministry was created four years ago, by depriving the Ministry of Transport and Communications of certain powers and thus transferring the telephone and mail to the new ministry. Back then, in New Slovenia, we were opposed to it, and today we can call it [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] - I will conclude immediately - that this ministry has not actually fulfilled its expectations. This is still the case with state monopolies in the field of telephony. Investors for telecommunications development have not received their investments back, and Slovenia is even threatened with astronomical lawsuits due to market failure in mobile telephony. There is no way that, by the end of this ministry, a systematic and comprehensive approach to the development of electronic communications has stopped, as the current current minister and his secretary are trying to tell us through the means of public information. Since it is over, I know, Mr Potrč, I conclude in New Slovenia we will support the proposal. [[...]] If you allow me, I'd like to quote Mr. Anderlich four years ago, and he said, "But otherwise it's clear, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u97	Could you please? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u98	that each ruling coalition shall form a government in such a way that it works best." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u99	Thank you very much. It's available for explanation for five minutes, and please hold on to that. The next is a representative of the SLS, Mr. Franz Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are of the opinion, as has already been said, that each government forms its own government in such a way that it is most effective, most close to the people, and certainly with the election of a new Prime Minister, the future government wants the law on changes and additions to the government's law to correspond to the future government, so that it can work effectively, quickly and bring its work closer to the people. With this proposal, we abolish the Ministry of Information Society, on the one hand, and on the other, we obtain a new Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. We are very pleased that science and technology will be given their attention again in this mandate. In the Slovenian People's Party we were of the opinion that in the past it was somewhat darkened or forgotten, especially science and technology, which is very important for the development of the Slovenian economy and other segments. We will also acquire education, the Ministry of Education and Sport. In the Slovenian People's Party, we tried to get a portfolio, a new portfolio for local self-government and regional development, but we did not reach a consensus to be a self-resort. It is important that local self-government in Slovenia get their weight, their real interlocutor right with the department, such as the local self-government and regional development department. The introduction of State secretaries and the reduction, on the other hand, of the abolition of ministerial councils, has its weight. The Slovenian People's Party also supported on the Internal Policy Committee the amendment to the 6th Article of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, which says: "The government, with the appropriate territorial organisation of ministries and other authorities of the State administration through the regional units, ensures equal access to administrative services throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia." We are of the opinion that future coalition partners in their electoral programme have also announced that they will introduce into their treaty the dictatorships of so-called decentralisation and that this dictatorship of the amendment to Article 6 of the Slovenian National Party Group is a legal basis for us to begin the decentralisation of certain national authorities in this country as well. Indeed, some state authorities are located in rental premises for which the government has to provide large rents. However, we are convinced, in the Slovenian People's Party, that Slovenia is both infrastructure-related and otherwise connected and that such segments and resources can be moved to those locations where they will be state-owned throughout Slovenia. I therefore stress once again that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the whole proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Government Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Representative of the SNS, Mr. Sasha Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u102	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! According to an assessment by the Slovenian National Party, the law on government constitutes a kind of roof law, which will make the government more or less operational for the next four years. According to our assessment, this is one of the reasons why it is reasonable to have a good marriage and why such a law should be adopted as quickly as possible. It is precisely because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to work as soon as possible, no matter how complex it is. I believe that the 90 of us in the pre-election period have committed ourselves to citizens and citizens to make sure that this country works out as best as possible. It is up to us, and it is up to the legislative branch of the Authority to decide whether we will also allow it to be the executive branch of the Authority, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And today it is up to us to decide whether to allow the executive branch of power, that is, those who are implementing the laws that we are enacting, whether they can start work or not. The answer is simple in the national party. Based on the electoral results, we all know them, we know that the greatest share of confidence has been achieved by the Slovenian Democratic Party. And as a result of yesterday's developments in the National Assembly and before that developments within the Office of the President of the Republic, it is clear that there was no opposition that would destroy this majority will of citizens and citizens. Therefore, he considers himself personally and, of course, in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, it seems quite normal for us to also allow the elected Prime Minister to start working and enable him to support his way of thinking. And the law on government is, or should be, a set of his wishes to organize the work of the executive branch of government. In the national party, we have never, not today or in the last four years or earlier, allowed and maliciously manipulated in terms of delaying, so that, of course, some matters would fall out of procedure and thus have some negative effect in return for some kind of political popularity. This is the worst thing that can happen to any political party. And if anyone has that in mind, I'm asking him to come out of this town, change your mind. The task of all of us is to get the government to work as quickly as possible and to have the best results. For the results of the government are then known in the quality of the stay of our citizens and citizens. But I'm afraid, at least as far as I've had the opportunity to work on this call, that we're going to run into something that's a little bit hollow under our feet in terms of that kind of squeezing, political nagging that's not going to bring positive results to anyone in this country. In my opinion, according to the Slovenian National Party, it is the opposition's task to cooperate constructively, to prepare, to give different views, but not to insist at all costs on the opposite positions of the government. Slovenian policy should not be divided and the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should be divided exclusively between those who support the laws and only those who reject them. We will, of course, oppose this in the national party. As I said, we have, of course, drawn up our position in the national party around this law. We have offered some changes in the form of an amendment that has been discussed on today's working body. Above all, we have come from what we have come from all of us who, in the pre-election period, talked a great deal about the excessive centralist development of our country. In short, we have offered an amendment to the Internal Policy Committee, which will allow some kind of dislocation of certain institutions of individual ministers in the introductory provisions of this bill. There has already been a speech on the committee and I have also heard one or one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups that this is unnecessary. That's exactly what I think is necessary. And I sincerely hope that now that the amendment to the Internal Policy Committee has been adopted, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will begin to implement this amendment under this Act. Let me conclude by stressing that in the National Party over the next four years we are offering our assistance, both to the government and - forgive me - for example, I will take - Liberal democracy, because we are assessing that it is reasonable for us to take all together a step forward. Do not set those barriers that will not bring any of us forward or that will not bring Slovenia forward. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the idea of the Prime Minister to organise the government, i.e. the government law. At the same time, I predict that we are always prepared to work constructively with anyone in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Representative DeSUS, mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u104	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia had doubts about the division of tasks or the content of the Ministry of Information Society, which is terminated. We have nothing against the establishment of two new ministries. We still think it would be best if the contents of the Ministry of Information Society as a whole were brought to the Ministry of Science and Technology, but the amendment offered by the Liberal Democracy in this regard was not adopted. When we voted on this, it was said in the meantime that this matter would be resolved in another law. However, when we came to the vote on the second law, it turned out that only part of the content of the Ministry of Information Society would be attached to the Ministry of Science and Technology, which we do not think will be good. However, we hope that the content of the Ministry of Information Society's work will still be realized and implemented in a way that we do not yet know what it will be. That is why we support this law and support it so that it can be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Do you have the position of representative of the Italian and Hungarian national communities? [[They gave up.]] This concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Is this a procedural question? [[Yeah.]] Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u106	Look, we would like to see that, in view of the debate that is taking place with regard to this law that took place on the Internal Policy Committee, and in particular in connection with the legislative and legal service report on Article 5, which states that, of course, the amendment of Article 22, 25a and 25b, that all the solutions are combined in one article, but, of course, the content of the proposed solutions becomes inexcusable in terms of the tasks or competences of government services, their interrelationships, hierarchy and so on. What is crucial about the law is, of course, that the Prime Minister, in the second paragraph of Article 25, will also be able to empower the Ministry of Field Affairs for individual tasks. We would like to hear from the legislature whether this is contrary to the second paragraph of Article 114 of the Constitution, which states that the composition and functioning of the government, the number of powers and the organisation of ministries are governed by law. With this provision that the Prime Minister may also authorize the Ministry of the Interior for individual tasks, we are, in fact, going beyond the provisions of Article 114, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, which states that powers in the organisation of ministries are governed by the law. Not a provision in Article 25 or in the last sentence of Article 25, which states that the Prime Minister will also be able to mandate the Ministry of the Interior for individual tasks. We believe that this is, of course, something that would be good for the legislative and legal service to explain to the national assembly before we move to the decision-making process, because, of course, there can be doubts, as has been said, about the uncertainties of individual departments, or the lack of clarity as to what individual departments will do, because the Prime Minister will therefore be able to authorise the ministries in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u107	Thank you very much. In view of your procedural remark, I would say that you have all received the position of the Legislative and Legal Commission in writing. However, if the chairman of the National Assembly considers that a specific legal question needs to be resolved at the meeting itself, he may invite the representative of the legislative and legal service to give an oral opinion. I think that even though you have received this in writing, you could ask the representative of the Legislative and Legal Commission for this legal opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u108	That's exactly what we're proposing. To explain this to the representative, the representative of the legislative and legal service, even though the minutes of the report of the Internal Policy Committee explain that this was presented, there is another typographical error, you are talking about, you wrote "official services", there is no official service, there are government services, but of course it is not clear how the committee discussed this and what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I think we were familiar with that. Please. Can I have Procedural, please? [[...]] No, no, no. Then allow me to give the floor to the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service to give my opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u110	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. In fact, in our opinion, we have already pointed out that the tasks carried out within the framework of government services and the tasks carried out within the framework of the sectoral ministries, which - these are administrative tasks - must be separated by law and allocated to the ministries. The tasks of government services are of a different quality. In particular, we have pointed out the systemic inadmissibility that the tasks of the government services should be carried out and the situation of the sectoral ministries should be designed for tasks for which, after the constitution, the Ministry is not, in fact, primarily established and responsible. That is why we have in particular pointed out the systemic inadmissibility of the fact that the ministries in question carry out the tasks of government services, because they are not institutions established for this purpose. That was our basic principle. Of course, it would be unconstitutional to assign administrative tasks to ministries without law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your opinion. I don't think there's any discussion about that. Therefore, I also note that the amendments have not been tabled. And since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, we are moving on to a decision on the law. In second reading. In doing so, I inform you that the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. That is why we are moving to the vote. We're voting on the law. Excuse me? Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u112	Explanation of vote if we are in the vote. You'll allow us to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u113	Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u114	Of course, I will clearly vote against the law. At the same time, I regret this fact that we have already failed to agree on a very rational and meaningful solution by which the powers of the Ministry of Information Society could be combined with the new powers of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to make a meaningful ministry, even much, because it will be smaller than it is now, and thus enable Slovenia and the Government to have clearly defined substantive competence in the field of information society, e-mail, information society applications and information society services. The solution, which is bad and optimal, at the same time, degrades these tasks and this area, which is being pushed into some of the spheres now, into second-class themes. Whatever you want and promise and record that there will be no second-class, it will be a second-class theme. Telecommunications was also a second-class topic until the establishment of the Ministry. We know why. Because the Minister of Transport and Communications was involved in 90%, 95% of the time with traffic, highways, railways, transport policy. I don't think there's been any contact with telecommunications. It is only with this that we have made a serious topic, a serious area of public policy. Unfortunately, this is lost, but I think that development in Slovenia will go on, despite the fact that there will be no more adequate institutional and regulatory environment for the formulation of public policies in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to describe my reasons for objecting to these proposals more easily with the words of my colleague Dr Gantar, who once or recently said that we are setting up a ministry for bureaucracy and printing and abolishing a ministry that will deal with the future. However, if I had already voted in favour of abolishing such a Ministry of Information Society, I would like to know that its powers are premeditated, i.e. rounded up to one resort. In this case, it has not been done, and in some ways only part of these powers have been transferred to the Ministry of the Economy and part of the competence hangs in the air. But I can mention another matter, like mail. Mail in the world, for example in France, the Netherlands and Germany, and elsewhere, are also becoming more and more logistics operators, as well as public carriers. This question is not sufficiently meaningfully addressed. Let me just give you a German mail case. German mail includes such logistics services, carriers, logistics hubs and could also be listed. That, too, has been devoted, in my opinion, to a lack of attention. Again, it's a change that's too fast and too little to study. That is why, unfortunately, I cannot vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Dr. Mark Pavlich. Anyone else? Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of this law. The reasons for this are as follows: the Ministry of Information Society, which is not European comparable, is abolishing what is similar in the current EU Member States, you will not find in the old Member States. With this, Slovenia is becoming more European comparable, and at the same time has all the other advantages that I have already mentioned in the presentation of the law. Secondly, of course, I will vote in favour of this law because it also allows for greater flexibility of the services that care for the work of the government itself and its President. And that's the subject of that article that you've been trying to make for the issue. This includes only this part, a set of tasks which cannot be disputed in any way, not in terms of legal harmonisation, nor in terms of constitutionality. However, it does not, of course, cover those administrative tasks which are required by law and by law to be distributed on the basis of law. So, there can't be anything in here that's really controversial, the other way around. It is this article that provides the legal basis for the Prime Minister to make the work of his services as meaningful as possible. At the same time, this debate further convinces me that I will vote in favour of the proposed text. Indeed, another fact is, look, we had a rich debate in which it became clear that this could be a good basis for further action by the government. Some of the problems the government will face have been presented in some way by those who opposed this law. For example, it would be good for the government, within its powers, to face the fact that an extremely large number of different agencies have been set up, which is certainly no longer rational and that the government would do well within its powers if this fact were also examined and proposed appropriate measures, which is why, of course, this law is even more welcome. I will vote for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dr. Laharnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Of course, it is entirely legitimate for the Prime Minister to form a government or structure an area as he considers it most appropriate for the effective functioning of the government. I regret, however, that he may not have taken a little more time or consulted all the parliamentary groups at least earlier. I firmly believe that none of us here intends to make proposals that would not have a positive impact on the efficiency of the government. If we are talking about a resource that I am running for the time being, then I think it is unwise for energy to be included in this area because it is an extremely infrastructure activity. If you have thought in this direction, then it would be worth considering the creation of an Infrastructure Ministry and thus bringing these activities together. However, the Ministry of Economy must develop or develop in the direction of the Ministry of Competitiveness, which can have an active impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, which means that technology should not be excluded. We have now set up a technology agency, tried to exclude it from the Ministry of Economy, equally to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport of the Ministry of Science and have developed these two agencies according to the Finnish model separately, in the future the possibility of connecting according to the Swedish model or not. What we have now seems to me to be rather underthinking and actually worrying, or I think it might be a pity, because in fact, if there has been any change, the ministry could develop in a different direction - as I said in the direction of the Ministry of Competitiveness - so I am afraid that they will primarily deal with purely banal matters such as mergers, discharges, human resources, property, while not sufficiently crafted solutions and I am sorry and, of course, will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I would also like to express my own opinion on this law. I will not support it, if the first law we adopted was a law that increased privileges and rights, then the second law is very indicative, which is once again adopted by the new Parliament. For the second law, which, by the way, was said to be quick and so forth, that the legislative and legal service has somehow failed to express non-compliance, it is, of course, clear and loudly stated here that the legislative and legal service has expressed in its opinion its concerns about the solutions brought by this law and stated that the proposed solutions, in its opinion, are imprecise, in particular, imprecise in respect of the tasks or competences of the official services of their interrelationship or hierarchy and the responsibilities of the leaders and that the proposal does not also specify the tasks of the General Secretariat of the Government. In short, once again a beautiful journey of another law that you will adopt, the law is impeccable, vague, unclear, with a whole range of shortcomings, so I think we will do very good work today obviously in Parliament. I would also like to argue that there has been no solution to the information technology ministries in Europe. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u123	Please, I would like to remind you that there is no controversy, just a presentation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u124	I am presenting my voice that I will not support it, because there are countries in Europe that have ministries, which also bear names in their own name in different ways of information technology. I can also list them: Czech Republic, Denmark, Italy, Poland and some others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anyone else, please? Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage. However, it was quite pointless for some of the entities that were and how they were deployed in the previous government, but that was the problem of that government. The problem with the current government is to put matters to such an extent that they can, of course, function and be as good as possible for the country, citizens and citizens. If the current fellow Members, the former ministers, had previously been so concerned, the results of the management could, of course, be significantly different and some of the legislation adopted in this House could also have been implemented. However, they have not done so, they have forgotten, even declared, all the legislation adopted in the National Assembly does not need to be implemented. This is the concern and concern that would concern them most, rather than how some things will now be settled; but I am sure that after this amendment of the law, much better and more operationally than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anyone else please? Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I will support the law and I will vote for it for the following reasons: every time a new executive is appointed, it is usually that the political option that voters grant to form this executive branch of government is to adapt the government's legislation to its expectations and its belief that, with appropriate organisational changes, it will be able to rule successfully and effectively, or to manage the country and to achieve those objectives that are enshrined in its programme and, of course, in the coalition treaty. I would like to say that this is certainly not a matter of substance, of some major substantive changes or corrections, but it is a matter of changing the organisational form in the state apparatus, which, in our opinion, will enable a more successful work for what people who have expressed their confidence in us in the elections expect the new government to do. Once again, the content is virtually unchanged. Everything that has now been done in various organisational forms will continue to be carried out. The format in which this content is to be implemented shall be changed. I am also grateful for the different opinions I have listened to. Because they didn't convince me, of course, I couldn't support them, and that's why I'm going to support this law, as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So, the decision to explain my voice was certainly prompted by the fact that, not to challenge the legitimacy of the Prime Minister to regulate the competence of his service for its greatest effectiveness, but by his concluding thought that he would, of course, form a government that would work effectively and also well. And his call to be open to good proposals, regardless of which side they come from. From this point of view, an amendment was also tabled, referring to the fact that one of the ministries without a director would be responsible for the affairs of the European Union. And, of course, here this proposal has been designed on this very basis, i.e. the experience of the proposal, in our view of a good proposal that speaks about what has already been said today that we are talking about a development vision. And it is this proposal that has been formulated on the basis of a clear development vision, which speaks of the European Union's affairs as having a very important impact on life within the European Union, which we have recently become full members of. Parliament was aware of this in the past mandate and has therefore changed the Constitution, adopted a special law and specific business provisions. Of course, we would like to see that when the government works well and listens to these proposals, which come from different sides, to listen to them and, of course, within the framework of decisions that will be taken on a very wide range of decisions within the institutions of the European Union, the Slovenian Parliament will play its part, together with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will vote in favour mainly for a reason, because I do not think that energy can fall elsewhere than in the field of the economy. Here a new value is created and a very important factor in the economy, especially with us, who are mainly state-owned. That is why I think that this change is urgently needed mainly because of energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this proposal. My colleagues already said why. I would only add to this, to the very knowledge that this draft ignores European affairs because it abolishes the Ministry of European Affairs, that this ministry has not done its historic task and that later the ministries will ensure that Slovenian sectoral policies are properly aligned with European sectoral policies. This means that every department, every minister of work, in particular that area that falls within the framework of the common European policy, will be part of European policy and that there will be no need for a specific ministry that will take care of contacts, of communication between the European Union and Slovenia. In short, this is a slightly broader scope of the tasks of the ministries of the field. Thus, there is no need for an additional ministry to deal with these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to support this marriage. I've already ordered it. And the fundamental reason is that I admit to the majority that it forms a government in its own way. But if this right is exercised, then it must also assume full responsibility and I do not intend to take responsibility for the solutions it proposes. This is because what happened on the Internal Policy Committee has convinced me that it is not important what anyone proposes, but that it is more important who proposes what. I've proven that, too. Neither did the minimal changes in organisations receive support, much more so. And if it's really just about organizational change and they're not hiding a substantive change behind them, then I'm very interested in why they're needed at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u138	I didn't have a word to explain my voice. Excuse me. Thank you very much. I will first comment on what you said, Mr. Milan Beast. I must say, you don't understand European matters. I'm not replicating. Explaining My Voice [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u139	So please explain the voice or the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u140	why I'm going to vote against it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u141	There's no replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u142	Yes, you can!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u143	You already had a pardon, sorry! [[...]] Is that an explanation for the voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u144	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u145	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u146	I will vote against the law, because not even the smallest changes have been adopted to ensure what was recognised in Slovenia when we entered the European Union, but that it is best prepared among the members. This is also because in 1998 we established a government service for European affairs, not the ministry that coordinated these matters, on the basis of the agreement of all the parties in 1996. Today, at the College of the National Assembly, there will be the material that this service has prepared. This material includes the work of all departments [[I'm talking about what Mr. President was talking about yesterday, but it's under "internal," so I can't talk about him.]] It's an important piece of material. Mr. Candidate spoke yesterday about the Lisbon Strategy [[Public documents]] . The Government's European Affairs Service has been working throughout the government to coordinate its position. The Hague process - I apologize, 80% of the legislation that will be in force in Slovenia will be adopted within the European Union. And if you have decided that this will be done in accordance with Article 25, someone who will be appointed by the Prime Minister as a decision-making minister, then I must tell you that you do not understand coordination within the European Union. Therefore, I must vote against this law, and I hope that you will come soon with a proposal or at least maintain what you are able to maintain the government's service for European affairs, to identify someone, even one of the Members you will call for the Secretary of State to coordinate this, because otherwise we will have to have a government at the Committee on European Affairs, on the Committee on Foreign Policy and on all the Committees of the National Assembly, where we will have to deal with matters related to the European Union. This is the content of the coordination of European matters, so I cannot agree with this. Secondly, the Ministry of Public Administration - it was led by a secretary of state who, in four years, failed to do everything here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Beblerev has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I also announce that I will not support this law, I cannot support it, even because the proposaler has failed to take our well-intentioned proposals into account, so that at least one of the ministers without a charter can be identified as one who looks after European Union matters. However, I must say that it is also surprising that we do not listen to the fact that even the old members of the European Union, such as France, Italy, Germany, have a special minister in charge of European affairs. And I don't know how they're so stupid and they have such a minister. But still, well, as it were, I really can't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u150	Nice greetings to you, presidents, and to all your colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly! I am speaking for the first time, so perhaps at the end of this debate I am listening to. I justify my vote by voting in favour of this for the following reasons. We're saying we're giving the new government a chance. Yesterday we voted the new president - let's give him a framework, let's give him a chance to start working with his team; he's got 15 days to put people up. This amendment to the legislation, however, makes perfect sense. You LDS colleagues, too, say that it is right to set a new framework. And I am sure that Mr Janša will lay down this framework in a way that will make it easier to achieve the results that he has. In October, the voters received it, and the electorates and voters certainly expect it. Secondly, if energy belongs to one another, it belongs to the economy, ladies and gentlemen. Nowhere else. And why it was then moved from the economy to the ILO, some of us may also know. As far as the information society is concerned, for six years I have been mayor of the municipality, and I have not felt it. Then I don't know if it's so badly needed - I might not have needed it, or you didn't come to us. However, as regards the other article submitted by the Slovenian National Party, I think it is very reasonable that the Ministry should approach the regions and local communities. And that's what the voters voted for on October 3rd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u151	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Dr. Slavinec. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen! If we put aside legal doubts about the law, I would just like to define myself on one point of content, and this is the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, and then the Ministry of Education and Sport. I am not saying that it is imperative that these departments remain in one ministry as it has been before, but I wonder whether this is the most meaningful division. Because I see vertical education connected, not just from primary school to college and higher education, including, of course, preschool education. Last but not least, in many areas, institutions are as interconnected as when we look at the faculty of education, which is closely related to primary and secondary education. Faculty students are also interested in getting the best, as quality students as possible, and want closer cooperation with primary education. It also makes sense that the resources are connected in such a way as to ensure the greatest possible profit and the greatest benefit for the country. Now science, basic, certainly belongs to higher education, while applied science and that which is related to technology - and it is precisely these two branches that will ensure faster economic development - would like to somehow connect more closely with the economy. And because of this division, which I find inappropriate, I regret that I cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anyone else, please? I guess not. I also note that we can move to a vote on the law on amendments and additions to the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me warn you about the cards. We're voting. The vote is closed. 82 Members are present. 51 members voted against 28. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. That's my conclusion. We're moving to five. The agenda, yesterday's follow-up to the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, is an equivocal draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 11 Members. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, mag. Branku Grims, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. The law before us is logically linked to the law just voted, which has set up the new structure of the Slovenian government, and will now adapt the proposed law to the maximum extent possible the structure of the administration, so that the maximum efficiency will be achieved and at the same time the opportunity for what I have already mentioned as a goal in the previous law will be achieved, as far as possible, for the more rational functioning of the state administration as a whole. The main purpose is therefore to set up a ministry structure that will allow for the best possible performance for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as all those living in this area. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to some facts. Previously it was said that it was the only criterion when we formed these laws, what someone proposed. With all my responsibility, of course, I say, not what someone is proposing, but who is proposing something, such as the lady who spoke here, has highlighted in particular. With all my responsibility, I say that this is not true, and I can prove it by the law that is now before you. A number of amendments have been tabled on the committee, and some of these amendments have also been adopted, regardless of who their proposer was. Thus, for example, the text of the law already includes the amendment tabled yesterday by the United Nations Group of Members. It also contains some other changes that essentially preserve the structure so far, by withdrawing from some of the proposed changes. This is a suggestion to the professional public that we have listened to. At the same time, it makes sense to summarise one of the amendments of the Liberal Democracy, namely that part which adds to the Ministry of Science and Technology those works and tasks in the field of information society which are not covered by the works and tasks of the remaining ministries, and at the same time gives it a coordinating function, so that everything that has been done in the past is fully preserved. However, with a meaningful redesign of these works and tasks, at the same time the services they carried out have been achieved with a significantly greater European comparability, and I am particularly warning this, because, as I said at the previous point, of course, you will not find such a ministry in the old members of Europe. I must also draw attention to some of the facts that have already emerged from the debate so far. Look, of course, the European Union coordination service will not just stop working, it will be transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all these works and tasks will be carried out as before. It is only based on the belief that Europe has become our common country in this work, which we decided at the referendums two years ago. This in practice means that, of course, it is no longer possible to address, for example, foreign policy issues entirely independently of European foreign policy issues and neither security issues entirely independent of European Common Security Policy issues. And that is indeed the case, but you have proved that members of the coalition so far, that the government's work so far alone, when you have come up with a proposal that defines the competences of the common foreign policy, the right foreign policy of the European Union and the security issues of the European Union, is not passed on to that special committee on European Union issues, but to the Committee on Foreign Policy - which I believe is in line with this principle and, of course, also in line with what is now proposed by the amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration. As much as in the introduction as there will be any more questions, I am happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body, so I ask the rapporteur to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u156	Dear colleagues! At today's first emergency meeting, the Internal Policy Committee also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration. The representative of the applicant also provided an additional explanation. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service made some comments on the definition of the working areas of the Ministry of the Economy and the Ministry of the Environment and the Space, with regard to the designation of the new Ministry of Public Administration, in particular as regards the definition of its work area, and with regard to the proposed first paragraph of Article 8. A representative of the Union of State and Social Organs of Slovenia also participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee discussed in particular the articles to which the amendments had been tabled. The largest debate was aimed at establishing a new Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology in this regard on the possibility of integrating the information society into the Ministry's framework. Today, there were also justifications for putting intellectual property in the content of the Ministry of Economy's work. Some members of the Committee drew attention to the specific comments made by the legislative and legal services and considered that they should be taken into account. The representative of the proposer then made appropriate clarifications to the concerns expressed by the members of the Committee and proposed to the Committee, with a view to improving the legislative text submitted, some amendments in the amendment form adopted by the Committee as its own. Thus, the Committee adopted the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to Articles 1 and 6. The Committee did not accept the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 1 and the amendments of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to Articles 5, 6 and 8 and the LDS Club of Members to Articles 6 and 8 have become irrelevant. As has already been said, the Committee has adopted amendments to Article 1 and Article 6 and Article 8. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the proposal together and also adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u157	Thank you so much for the introduction. They shall follow the views of the members of the groups. Mag. Grims, would you like a word? Thank you very much. Representative of LDS, Dr. Paula Gantar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u158	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the LDS Club on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration. As we know, this bill extends the power of electronic communication, mail and energy to the Ministry of the Economy. I'm just stating the most important changes. It establishes a Ministry of Public Administration and redefines new powers between the Ministry of Education and Sport and the new Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Sport. The proposal to transfer only electronic communications and mail to the Ministry of Economy is the worst possible solution. It is not a problem that the Ministry of Information Society has ceased to exist as a single ministry - that is what we have said is possible, without a doubt - but the breakdown of the core competence itself means a host of problems and problems facing the future government in particular. Fatal error - separation of information infrastructure and services and applications. Development, as I have already mentioned, is in the direction of convergence and integration, and the proposalers also break it down to the field of public policy making and to the regulatory area. It is not so simple to see from the law, it also appeared from the statements that these opinions are a very different, clear area of competence for electronic commerce and signature, for the issue of information security, for privacy on the Internet, for the conduct of the domain, and so on. The competence for the law on access to public information shall be transferred to the Ministry of Public Administration. This is an inappropriate and unhygienic solution. This law concerns the provision of information with which the public administration has the power to act, while conferring legal powers on the director, who is also responsible for public administration and also for the interests of civil servants. It's like, of course, keeping the sheep trusts the wolf. The law needs to be amended, but not in the direction the new Prime Minister spoke about yesterday, but in the direction of additional upgrades and additions by regulating the so-called reuse of information or the so-called "re-use", commercial use of such information. For such a matter, which is very important in business, of course this Ministry is not qualified by chance, the Ministry of Public Administration. This would be the case, and this, of course, falls under the services of the information society, but the applicants do not think so. I would like to draw attention to the warnings coming from the EU's own representation in Brussels, the Prime Minister has certainly been informed about this, the representatives in Brussels point out that it is important to carry out the tasks and responsibilities associated with the preparation and implementation of the policy in one place. Given the increasing importance of electronic content, it would be very difficult to separate infrastructure policy from the policy of developing new services. They quote the Director-General of Colasanti, who pointed out this, and have joined the Directorate-General for the Information Society, which we have not mentioned, in the field of the media, which would of course be very important to do. In short, on the contrary, you are going away from the arrangements envisaged in the European Union and its Member States. We have, of course, proposed an amendment with which we, as a whole, should be included in the new ministry, but we have not been successful in doing so. Not because you're saying you're going to set up somewhere else. I am so old, and of course I know so much about telecommunications, the market, lobbying and all that I know who's behind it. That we know who is behind this, and we know that these gardens and interests are divided; that these gardens and these interests go in the direction of division. Otherwise, all of you and the rest of us know that such a well-preserved ministry - I know a lot of people in customers who feel the same way you're preparing them - to keep the ministry in the department. I'll be very quick. We are actually concerned about this - therefore, due to strong arguments, clearly, the proposalers have prepared a quick composite supplement, which is in no way a solution and does not make sense of it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We will not be able to support the proposal of the Liberal Democracy and, of course, this amendment, because it is even more confusing. [[...]] I'd like to point out one more thing that's important. In fact, you forgot about the transmission, if you're already transferring the electronic communications and mail inspectorate. The comfort that the Inspectorate understands under electronic communications and mail is, of course, not enough. As has been said, administrative tasks, inspection tasks can only be carried over by law and not by regulations. The decisions that will be issued by the Inspectorate following the implementation of this Act will be without a legal basis. Anyone will be able to challenge these decisions in court because he will prove that they have been issued by an authority that actually exists without a legal basis and by an authority that is not so called. I'm sure you'll be coming in very soon with the changes. At least ask me not to be in the hall at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u159	Thank you very much. United List's emissary group, please, Mr. Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief. We have not supported the draft amendments and the addition of the Government Act in the United Social Democrats Group, but we have stressed that the new coalition has the right to form an organisation, but also the responsibility to form an organisation; therefore we do not think we need to help. In fact, the Law on State Administration is a twin or logical consequence of decisions adopted in the Government Act and, in principle, the same position applies to us - we do not support it. The fact that our amendment to Articles 1 and 6 on the placement of intellectual property has been adopted cannot change that. We are pleased, however, that at least a grave error has been realized if political interests remain as demonstrated by the law on Members. For if intellectual property had not remained in the economy, it would have been institutionally misplaced also by the visas of the European Union, and I think you have accepted our warning in due time. Finally, I hope and believe that the warning given to us today by the union of the national and social authorities of Slovenia can be understood in such a way that the question of Article 8 in the second paragraph, which speaks of the taking over of the relevant public servants, must be understood "appropriate" in view of the individual sector, because more reorganises and cannot be taken over by one resort of everything, but no one will be in conflict with the law simply because of the reorganization of the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Janez Drobnič, New Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and others! Allow me to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on amendments and amendments to the Law on State Administration; the opinion will be relatively brief. In view of the fact that the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act has already been adopted, this is a logical consequence for this law to be adapted also to the structure of the State Administration in graves, i.e. by the Ministry. In practice so far, it is always adapted to the structure of ministerial functions in the government, in principle, by one government minister - one ministry. We also want to maintain this principle because of adequate consistent guidance. However, as regards the changes that have taken place in the structural government ministries, this is the case. We do not throw any functions out with this proposal, but we want to organise them in a slightly different way. The New Slovenia Group also did not object four years ago or I do not really know how it has dealt with the regulation or establishment of the Ministry of Information Society, because we were particularly interested in the consequences, the results. And what do we have after four years from this Ministry of Information Society? Maybe some kind of promotion, but specifically, citizens want to know what has been done in this area in terms of development. Secondly, what happened with investing in the telecommunications network, what about returning, how about ensuring the equivalence of access to these information channels and information. Here we see that they control certain monopolies and from this title of the Ministry's rule, and above all the poor conduct of the business we will have a lot of problems. Actions have been brought against this, i.e. the functioning of the Ministry, the irresponsibility and non-execution of the role it must play. As a matter of fact, the deployment establishes a proper structure for the Ministry of the Economy to take care of the regulation of goods and services. And the information society, the information is a commodity or a service. And we are particularly interested in this in New Slovenia, in order to make this information available under the same conditions either by receiving or by distributing it. And on the other hand, we have the Ministry of Finance, which is in charge of capital regulation. And we have a third regulator, which is a special ministry, which is the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, because it is about regulating the labour market. Everything about the development of the information society, however, is also occurring in some other areas, certainly also in the new Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. That's how we think it's more meaningful and reasonable. Not to say that the establishment of the information society or the Ministry was a mistake, but it was the government's decision to manage the country better. That is how we advocate this organisation, as presented in this law. But it's definitely about how we're going to perform these functions. On the basis of these arguments, of course, the New Slovenia Group supports amendments and additions to the State Administration Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Kangler, SLS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief myself. As some of my interlocutors have previously found out, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u165	I can ask you if you'd like to come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u166	I'll be brief. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration is the subsequent law of the law adopted in the previous paragraph, the law on government. We are convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that by abolishing the Ministry of Information Society, this work will not suffer at all. Apparently, some in this National Assembly are too quickly forgetting that the Ministry of Transport and Communications was the Ministry of Transport and Communications in the previous mandate or mandate of 1996-2000. When I followed these changes, I did not oppose them, but I felt that because of the human resources and needs of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, someone had taken the links away and set up the Ministry of Information Society. As a result, today the Prime Minister and the future government have found that this ministry, as a single ministry, is unnecessary and that such a segment of the work area with this law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, also governs this area, as it used to be. That is why we will support in the parliamentary group the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u167	Mr. Bostian Zagorac, SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u168	Your Honors are here! As has already been said before me, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration is a logical consequence of the previously amended Law on Government. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that it is right for the Prime Minister to form or organise his own government. I'm sure they are. [[In noodles]] "Right" has been exploited by all the Prime Ministers so far. It should be stressed that the Prime Minister is also responsible for the functioning and effectiveness of such an organised government, and in the Slovenian National Party, we respect the way the current Prime Minister wants to organise his work, and we will closely monitor the functioning of the efficiency of such an organised government. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Genius, DeSus? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As I can see, the amendments to this point were not tabled, so no amendments were tabled. In the third reading of the amendments, it is not possible to invest, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislative and legal service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Is that an explanation for the voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u170	Of course, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! You probably expect, and so it will be, I will vote against this law for the reasons that I have stated too many times already today. Of course, they didn't run into nice ears. I would point out once again that this breaks down the single area of the information society; that you are not taking this government into a more effective solution to these problems, but rather into a more complex one; that the LDS is by no means insisting that the Ministry of Information Society should be with that name or even be able to exist on its own; that changes are possible; perhaps we, too, if we were in the government - whatever. However, I think that the argument that the ministry was working poorly is a justification that could be said to be illegal or that should be written "offside" or "offside" in the football language because that is not the question that we were dealing with today. If the Ministry has been working poorly, the Minister should be replaced, perhaps by the Secretary of State or something like that, but not by the fact that it is necessary to comply with the requirements of urgency or the need or non-necessity of the Ministry. It's simply an illegal document. Of course, it is also clear that human resources changes were needed. The changes had to be made at the time of the previous government's appearance if we wanted to establish a professional administration and also to ensure the status of the transformation of Telekom and Post Office Slovenia into an economic society. All of this has been done and these companies are working today with good results, profits and, of course, these results show, as well as others, that the Ministry has been doing well, that of course there are many of these tasks, and that this justifies the need for such a portfolio to stay together from the ministries, but not as you did. So, once again, I'm sorry, I'm voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Dr. Gantar. Anyone else please? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u172	I will support the bill because I believe it is consistent with the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or with the latest amendments to the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and takes into account the basic criteria of organisation, compliance - i.e. the creation or function of the minister, that the ministries also adapt to it for the sake of ease and good governance for the country. However, the arguments concerning this information society continue to apply as I have indicated as regards the organisation of the market in information services. This has certainly not been good in Slovenia, despite the establishment of a special Ministry of Information Society, which shows that there is a need for good work in particular, but, of course, the pre-condition is the logical and consistent organisation of ministries. I believe that such a proposal is a better proposal than what we have had, and I will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-11-10-SDZ4-Izredna-01.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Anyone else please? I'm guessing there's no one. Therefore, we can move to a vote on the law on amendments and additions to the law on state administration. Please, we're voting. The vote is closed. 61 present, 44 members voted against 15. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the State Administration has been adopted. I hereby conclude item 5 of the agenda, at the same time concluding the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a moment, I would like to remind you that there is a fourth meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly in room 217 after the meeting. Thank you very much.
