ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u1	I think the Internal Policy Committee is still in session. However, I would like to point out that the meeting is now beginning and that the meetings of working bodies should be suspended and that it is necessary to allow colleagues and colleagues to come to the large debate room. We will continue the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. Several colleagues and colleagues have been excused for today. These are colleagues of Battelli, Christmas, Onion, Jerovšek, Kacin, Kangler, Kontic, Lenko, Levič, Peterle, Podobnik, mag. Vizjak and Fabjan. From 3 p.m. to 1 p.m. there will be no colleague of Bevek, until 12.30 p.m., colleagues of Brejc, from 2 p.m. to mag. You spend, from 12.30 p.m. to colleague Marie Possonec, from 18.00 p.m. to colleague Školč, from 12.30 p.m. to colleague Tanka and, finally, colleague Dušan Vukko cannot cooperate with us after 3 p.m. We'll move on to 26. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A EUROPEAN PURCHASE OBJECTIVE AND NOT SUBMITTED, Urgent PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. I'm asking the Minister of Mags. Bizarre, does he want a word? The Minister of Justice has the floor to further explain the bill and will then receive the floor of his colleague Diaca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! By means of the Law on the European Arrest and Transfer Order, we introduce into the Slovenian legal order provisions or regulations which enable the implementation of the framework arrest decision adopted by the Council of the European Union in July 2002 and which the Member States have started to apply since the beginning of this year, and for our country it becomes binding on the day of membership. The proposed law provides for the procedure for the assignment of tasks by the Slovenian court, the procedure for the transfer of the requested person, and in particular the transport of the requested persons, and the seizure and extradition of items and property. The system provided for by the proposal of the law, which is therefore justified by the framework decision, is different from the classic system of extradition. Any intervention of the executive branch is excluded here, so that both the assignment of the task and the execution of the task received are fully within the jurisdiction of the judicial branch of the authority. There are three essential differences between the transmission procedure and the extradition procedure. The first is that the court does not establish the grounds for the suspicion of a criminal service, so the principle of mutual trust between the judicial authorities of different Member States is introduced. Another feature or difference compared to extradition is that the court does not verify that the offence is also a criminal offence under domestic criminal law when it comes to those offences explicitly listed in the framework decision, which are 32. Therefore, there is also confidence in the legal qualifications of the foreign judicial authority in this place. And the third major difference compared to extradition is that the surrender of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is not prohibited. If we look at the reasons for refusing surrender, which I consider to be one of the more interesting parts of this law, the framework decision is aware of the so-called mandatory reasons, namely those which each Member State must include in its legal order and optional ones, i.e. those that may or may not be foreseen. For these reasons, the legislator may also choose or prescribe them in the law itself or leave an assessment to the court in any particular case of whether or not the surrender will be permitted. The proposed law legitimizes all grounds for rejecting the surrender provided for in the framework decision. And what is still worth stressing, is also any other options that are in favour of, say, the citizens of Slovenia and which we can foresee in accordance with the text of the Framework Decision. The surrender of a Slovenian citizen, a foreigner with the right to permanent residence and a national EU with permanent residence in Slovenia is specifically regulated. In any event, the draft law provides that a person shall, if he so wishes, be punished in the Republic of Slovenia after, of course, the procedure for recognition of a foreign court decision. Four amendments, supported by the drafter of the law, have been tabled on the amended proposal and I propose that you also adopt such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u3	Mr Diaca will submit a supplementary report to the Committee, as his rapporteur. The proposal was addressed by the Internal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Dear Minister! At its 47th emergency meeting, on 18.3.2004, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law on the European task of receipt and surrender submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. The representative of the applicant presented in the introduction a supplementary explanation explaining the reasons for the consideration of the proposed law by emergency procedure and the objectives and principles and main solutions to the law. The draft law aims to fulfil the obligations set out in the UENP Framework Decision to EU Member States. This law will replace exclusion procedures with new procedures for the arrest and surrender of persons, with the aim of carrying out criminal proceedings or of enforcing a judicial conviction. The adoption of the law will thus give effect to joint action by EU Member States in police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, with the aim of preventing and combating organised crime. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented some of the comments made in their written opinion, stressing that taking these into account would help to improve and clarify the legal text. However, he pointed out in particular the comments which the applicant had failed to take into account: Article 1 where the provision for a reasonable application of the law governing criminal proceedings, which is not in accordance with the principle of determination as an integral part of the rule of law; Article 8 in which the term 'final release' is used constitutes ambiguity with respect to the expiry of the time limit; therefore, this provision, which constitutes an exception to the principle of speciality, is inconclusive. The representative of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out that, while they were involved in the drafting of the draft law, the proposaler was given a number of comments, some of which were taken into account and some of their concerns remained open, such as the question of delimiting the provisions of this law to the law on criminal proceedings and, in certain parts, the principle of determination in the law which must be in force in criminal proceedings may be compromised. He also pointed out that without an assessment of the number of cases, it was not possible to say in advance that the law would have no financial implications and consequences for the burden of the courts and of the state prosecutors. It is also necessary to harmonise the proposed amendment for a new Article 16a and thus ensure that the alien deprived of his liberty is informed by the competent authority of his country's consulate at his request. In the debate, some members of the Committee expressed concerns about the appropriateness of considering the draft law under urgent procedure, in view of a number of comments and related proposals for amendments to be adopted by the Committee as their own. However, the other members of the Committee stressed that the adoption of the draft law by emergency procedure would be necessary, as this would fulfil the obligation set out in the Council of the European Union Framework Decision and, otherwise, would have had irreparable consequences for the Republic of Slovenia, as pointed out by the proposer in the introduction of the draft law. In view of the above, the view prevailed that the amendment proposal should be amended accordingly. The discussion below raised in particular the question of which language will consist of the task to be given by our judicial authority by the judicial authority, since it is based on individual legal provisions that the Republic of Slovenia will also receive tasks in the English language. Our country should take advantage of the possibility offered by the acquis of the European Union and, for the language in which our authorities are supposed to receive European arrest warrants, determine exclusively the Slovenian language. The representative of the applicant duly explained the debates raised. In doing so, he justified the Government's proposed solution to the use of one or more official languages of the European Union in the translation of the arrest warrant. This is why a solution is offered from the government's poor experience with translation into Slovenian. However, it offers the legal order of the European Union the possibility for a Member State to indicate in a declaration deposited with the General Secretariat of the Council that it will adopt a translation exclusively in the Slovenian language. The representative also explained that there is no reason for the law to impose additional financial burdens, since the surrender process will take place directly between the judicial authorities in the future and not as it has been so far as the extradition procedure has been carried out through the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee drafted and adopted a number of amendments on the basis of a discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I will now give the floor to the Members and Members to present the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Celigoy, you have the floor to present the position of the DeSUS Group. She'll get the word of her colleague Zupanov after you. Please, Comrade Cheligoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The European Arrest and Surrender Order replaces now, in international law, the universally accepted extradition between the current and future Member States of the European Union. Finally, the European task is to eliminate a rather lengthy extradition process. The experience of countries with a European mandate has reduced the process from one year to about 15 days. This also provides for a trial or at least a faster trial for alleged perpetrators. Even though the idea of a European task had developed before the 11 September amendments, it is unlikely that without these changes, the light of the world would have been seen in such a record time in an area that is highly dependent on national regulation of this and for consensus to be difficult to reach. The provisions of the Framework Decision in the European task of receiving and transferring between Member States shall provide for the implementation of the content in national legislation by 1 January of this year for the Member States of the European Union and by 1 May of this year for the associated Member States. So far, its provisions have been implemented by 8 Member States of the European Union, including Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, Finland, Spain, Sweden, Portugal, Great Britain and only Hungary among the acceding countries, which means that its provisions are actually implemented between eight countries and all other countries are subject to existing international extradition treaties. In view of the fact that we refuse to perform part of our sovereignty by law, the Democratic Party of Slovenia's Party of Pensioners is also asked about the admissibility of the urgent procedure because of the fact that only 9 out of 25 members have fulfilled their obligation. In the DeSUS Group, we find that neither the framework decision nor the proposed law between the grounds for refusing the surrender of the requested person does provide for an explicit violation of human rights. As far as we are aware, the governments of the Member States of the European Union have refused to give up surrender for this reason because of the fear that the reference to them would prolong the procedures and thus incapacitate the purpose for which the European mandate is also being issued. However, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the effectiveness of the procedure should not completely exclude human protection. In relation to the country, as of 1 May of this year, it is certainly a weaker party to the 25 Member States of the European Union, which has the right to be protected by the State of which the national is or is located. Given that Member States are obliged to implement the provisions resulting from the prescribed international acts, I wonder how to react when two conflicting provisions govern human rights conflict. The problem is not negligible, as we know that Germany, for example, has faced great difficulties in adopting a framework decision for this very reason. In this context, we do not agree with the dictatorship that the surrender of the requested person is refused if a specific criminal offence is committed by the requested person when it was not yet 14 years old. We believe that the same protection should apply to all minors who are under Slovenian law, namely persons who have not yet reached the age of 18 at the time of service of the offence. For surely such a surrender can have tremendous consequences for such a person who has not yet been fully developed. Perhaps it is true, as some experts warn us, that the European warrant for arrest and surrender is an early-time institute. But it is also true that it is urgently needed. The European task will only be effective if the government among the Member States has full confidence in the criminal justice system of another country. In time, it will probably be necessary to come up with a parallel system that will establish guarantees for suspects in the process itself. Since in the DeSUS Group, we believe that only if the framework decision or on the basis of the law adopted is to be implemented will it show which provisions need to be defended, which are redundant and which are called for after the amendment, we support the bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. The position of the New Slovenia Group will now be presented by colleague Majda Zupan. She will then be given the floor to present the ZLSD group to her colleague Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The adoption of the law by emergency procedure, all because of the commitment contained in the Framework Decision, is expected to delay the recognition of criminal provisions of the Republic of Slovenia, which could have irreparable consequences for the interests of the Republic of Slovenia following the prosecution of offenders. Therefore, this law is intended to implement joint action by the Member States of the European Union in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the field of the prevention and fight against organised crime. The system is expected to operate after our full membership in the European Union. However, it is intended that the executive branch of the Authority should no longer interfere with the arrest and surrender process of a suspect or convict within the European Union, with the European Arrest Warrant playing a very important role. The European mandate is a decision issued by the judicial authority of a Member State of the European Union with a view to receiving and transferring the requested person against whom he intends to carry out a criminal procedure or a prison sentence. The European Arrest Warrant, covering 32 offences for which at least three years' imprisonment is provided, allows for the direct involvement of the judicial authorities of the European Union, in particular in the fight against organised crime, in particular terrorism. Prosecutors are allowed to arrest suspects operating in other countries of the European Union without having to carry out extradition procedures, with procedures being faster as they would be reduced to one year. Nothing is supposed to be a political decision anymore, as the political situation in the country of destination will no longer need to be examined. And also the discretionary right of the State to exercise its interests. The principle of mutual recognition, which is supposed to apply in this respect, should mean that the judicial authority of the executing Member State must not verify the content of the justification of the European arrest warrant. The bill itself contains 37 articles and more than 20 amendments have been tabled, indicating that coordination between the applicant, between the government and other relevant institutions was not best. While the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office as the most interested institution was involved in the drafting of the law, it was on the home committee that it proved that there were some open issues and fears that this might lead to problems in practice. In our parliamentary group in Novi Slovenija, we point out exactly the European arrest warrant for two problems. We join the opinion of some European Members and NGOs that the mandate does not contain a guarantee for the defence of suspects. Another time. We fear that prosecutors might have problems because they may not know the judicial systems of the other members well enough. We expect to come up with better solutions through consideration at future meetings, and we will also make decisions afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. She's a magician's colleague. Spending now has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by colleague Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Minister and Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The bill under consideration is one of those which the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to accept until entry into the European Union, so in the UK Group of Members we did not oppose the urgent procedure and its treatment on the labour force, although some felt that it would be better to postpone the hearing, due to a number of proposed amendments, only the proposer offered them to the Committee under Article 20 of the 37, as far as the law covered them, and the comments of the legislative and legal service and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, in particular Article 1 of the proposed law. The proposed four amendments, which we will also support in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, are not sufficiently clear, despite the other amendments adopted by the Committee. The law will allow the implementation of joint action by the Member States of the European Union in police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, thereby strengthening the prevention and fight against organised crime. In particular, therefore, it is important to specify the conditions and procedures for the surrender of the requested person and within this type of criminal offence to which the provisions relate. However, as the procedures are expected to take place faster and more effectively, there remains a legitimate concern, which has also been expressed by some others regarding the protection or limitation of human rights. The framework decision on the European arrest and surrender warrant received a lot of attention in the public, mainly due to the issue of the use of the language in which the European task was to be recorded when it was addressed to the State of Slovenia. In particular, I should like to point out that the country of Slovenia has been given the opportunity to determine, within the framework of Article 8 of the framework decision on the task, the language in which it wants to obtain the task. It is therefore appropriate for us to use this option to decide on Slovenian at a time when we are talking about becoming Slovenian by entering the European Union, even though it has been explained on the Committee on Internal Policy that the quality of the language that has been encountered so far in the proceedings is questionable. The fact is that the ability to communicate also increases in Slovenian, with the possibility that Slovenia is one of the official languages. After all, Slovenia is ordered to take account of the provisions of other countries on the use of language. While the procedure in our country is also language and limited to Slovenian, if we were to land in English, the state of Slovenia would have to take on additional costs to translate the task into Slovenian. As it is said, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. My friend Lavrinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u12	Yes, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I'll be right out of here. First of all, I will say that we are disappointed in the Group of Members, so to speak, because the law is adopted by emergency procedure. We ask ourselves, ‘ Who had this in his drawer so long that he could get us into some sort of time-consuming crisis and what was going on? ’ This is because the law was poorly prepared, as has already been said, to be corrected in many articles at the committee's own meeting and to be corrected and, of course, to be supported by the parliamentary group of this correction. After all, the undersigned is our head of the House Club. In other areas, too, as we speak of criminal legislation, unfortunately there has been a recent hurry and ignorance of the profession. Of course, we will oppose this in the context of what is possible. Of course, the main reason is human rights, on which we set out on the other hand. Thus, when we give authority to authorities, these powers are such that they seriously affect human rights. Of course, in all these discussions, it is in some way bad that such important issues are not discussed slowly, we think, and in dialogue with the expert - that is, only the professional dialogue has already given, so to speak, something through, that is, from such a system to different and so on - we can come to quality decisions. Time is not our ally. As is commonly known, terrorism is the severe pain of this humanity, it is growing, and under such conditions it is urgent to act quickly. That is why we see this adoption of the law and all the rest in some way of uniting standards and legislation in this area to ensure a secure life for peaceful citizens. That's why, as I said, we're going to support the marriage and we're going to support all the amendments. In doing so, however, we reiterate that this will not work again in our parliamentary group. Here we go, once again, for serious human rights abuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the executive branch! In the Slovenian National Party, we have already invited this country to a part about the transfer or transfer of people from Slovenia to foreign, other courts and have stressed that we are losing our sovereignty. Okay, that was too much anyway. Secondly, in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the Law of 37 Articles, which gives 23 amendments and also warns the legislature that the applicant has failed to comply with certain clear legal provisions, of course confirms the fact that such a way of adopting such important laws is absolutely not good. We have therefore decided in the Slovenian National Party that we will vote on this law at our own discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u15	We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. You have before you an overview of the amendments that have been tabled. From the point of view, I can tell you that we're not concluding. That's why I need to ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the grand hall of the National Assembly. If they had taken a good look at the work plan of this meeting, they could have found that we would be discussing and deciding in a consecuous manner today, on Friday. And with your patience, those who are present, I'll wait a minute for them to join us before we make a decision. We therefore have four amendments tabled to Article 1. The first is by the LDS Member Club, the ZLSD Group and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll move on to a decision. First of all, I'm going to ask you kindly to look at the operation of the voting devices or the burning light at the voting machine. It shows she's fine. I see there's no objection, so we'll move on to the decision now. We will vote on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. I ask your attention in the Chamber, we are in the middle of a vote on the amendment to Article 1. Without a little more attention, it'll be hard to make decisions. I'll wait a second. We're moving on to decision-making, another time. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to take ten minutes off. There's enough of us in the hall, there's 58 of us in the hall, that should be enough to make a decision. We are voting for the second time on the amendment of the LDS MP, the ZLSD and DeSUS MPs on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. 46 present, 38 for and none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] This amendment has been adopted. The same three parliamentary groups shall table an amendment to Article 2. Anybody want to talk about him? We're making a decision. We vote yes or no, please. We're in the middle of a decision. 47 present, 43 for, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment to Article 9. Anybody want a word? Nobody. We decide on the amendment to Article 9. We have an amendment from the LDS MPs, the ZLSD and DeSUS. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote, please, if you decide. 52 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one's against it.]] The same parliamentary groups table the last amendment to this law, which is to Article 12. Anybody want a word? Nobody. We're making a decision. We're in the middle of a vote. 49 in attendance, 43 in and 1 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] We've decided on the amendments. We're in the third reading of the bill. We have adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 9 and 12. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table any amendments to this article? I don't see any interest in that, so I don't see any reason to interrupt. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that I do not have any information on possible non-compliance by the legislative or government, so that we may come to a decision on the law, unless someone wants a word to explain the vote. [[Nobody.]] The National Assembly will therefore decide on the adoption of the law. We're voting! We decide on the law. Present 53, 45 for and one for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] The law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. It's a day's work. It is the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Nature. This point is also dealt with by an emergency procedure. The proposal for a law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. There's a minister with us, mag. A digger who will further explain the bill's proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members and Members. In Slovenia, direct nature protection is regulated by nature conservation law. In doing so, the concept of nature is legally bound to the constitutionally protected category of protection of natural heritage and to the internationally protected category of biodiversity. It is also important to preserve biodiversity in the EU's legal order. Union rules in this field shall lay down, inter alia, plant and animal species and habitat types which are relevant to the EU and must be protected or preserved by Member States in their territory. These are so-called birds and habitat directives. The process of transposition of European legislation into Slovenia's legal order in the field of the protection of plant and animal species and habitat types will be completed at the legal level by adopting today's novel nature conservation law, for which I am of course asking you to support it. The content of the novelty relates to the assessment of the acceptability of the potential adverse effects of the plans and interventions on the Natura 2000 area. These areas form a European ecological network aimed at ensuring the conservation of European endangered plant and animal species and habitat types in the EU area. Member States should, in accordance with the required professional criteria, not want to define these areas and ensure that species and habitat types are maintained in favourable condition. One of the prescribed measures by which States will ensure this is also the assessment of the acceptability of plans or interventions to the premises. The EU recommendations and the principle of pooling administrative procedures have been taken into account in the development of solutions in this paper. This law does not introduce new administrative procedures, but gives new content to the already established mechanisms. Thus, the process of assessing acceptability with regard to the identification of potential adverse consequences of plans and interventions is linked to procedures already in place, namely a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the plans and an assessment of the impact of environmental interventions. It also provides for the adoption of two sub-legislative acts, in view of the most specific definition of the procedures to be assessed and the determination of the method of assessment. In the acceptability assessment process, it is also very important that the possibility of a plan or intervention having harmful effects on Natura areas may be carried out if there are other qualified public benefits which, in a particular case, prevail over the public benefit of nature protection. Taking appropriate compensatory measures, of course. The proposed novel contains some minor other changes, the most important of which is the amendment to the current regulation of the management of agricultural land and forests owned by the State in the protected areas set up by the State. The proposed solution is based on an assessment that financial resources from agricultural land management income and forest management can be provided in a more efficient way than the actual transfer of agricultural land and forests to the management of protected areas or parks. In this way, the proposed legal definition is that surpluses over the expenditure of the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund may also be a source of funding for the management of the protected areas established by the State. This preserves the integrity of agricultural land and forest management, prevents non-professional management and uncontrolled fragmentation of financial resources, while providing additional financial resources for the management of protected areas. At the proposal of the law, he has now been tabled in the procedure before the assembly, I can say an editorial amendment on the recommendation of the Law Service. It was tabled by four groups of Members. And, of course, we support him. I suggest you support the bill. He's one of those laws we have to adopt before May 1st. And based on it, two other important sub-legal acts, the announcement of Natura 2000 sites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. The chairman of the committee, Comrade Janc, will present his report and then we will move on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. At its 21st emergency meeting, on 23.3. and 24.3.2004, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the nature conservation law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. In addition to the representatives of the proposer, representatives from the Agricultural Land Fund also participated in the meeting of the Committee. The proposed law was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which in its opinion drew attention to the inconsistencies of certain articles of the law. In the introductory explanation of the bill, the drafter presented the reasons for amending and supplementing the individual provisions of the Nature Conservation Act relating to compliance with the requirements of the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive by the date of accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. In addition, the legal basis for carrying out the notification procedure for potential Natura areas and ensuring the protection of these areas should be established by appropriate legislative adaptation, pending their confirmation by the European Union authorities. The amendment and amendment of the bill also ensures an assessment of the acceptability of plans and interventions in nature in Natura 2000 areas and compliance with the solutions under the proposed Environmental Protection Act in the process of adoption and other laws. In accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held discussions and votes on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The Committee has considered the amendments tabled by colleague Dusan Vukko and has also drafted its amendments. The main discussion was the consideration of Article 11 of the draft law, as well as the amendment tabled, concerning the preparation of a comprehensive assessment of the acceptability of plans and the assessment of the acceptability of interventions to nature and the possible silence of the Authority in this regard. The members of the Committee considered that the new procedures for verifying plans and interventions in nature could constitute an additional time barrier and additional costs for the preparation of local community acts, and therefore argued that the deadlines for these procedures should be clarified. It also raised a question relating to the respect for and summary of certain Directives of the European Union and established Nature 2000 to the extent necessary and compulsory for the Republic of Slovenia. In public-benefit procedures, they considered that the necessary solutions were good and would enable local communities to demonstrate the eligibility of public-interest interventions. In the debate on Article 19 of the Law, the members of the Committee felt that it was necessary to ensure that part of the surplus of income on the expenditure of the Agricultural Land Fund was indicated to the managers of the protected areas for investment in those areas, on the basis of the annual programmes developed by the managers of the protected areas. The Committee has therefore adopted an amendment that clearly defines the purposes of the use of these funds. After voting on all the articles, the Committee prepared a supplementary proposal for a law and proposed to the National Assembly that it adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We will now go to a presentation on the positions of the groups of Members. My colleague Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, followed by his colleague Tanko, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group of Members. Comrade Sok first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u20	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the previous law, it was heard by the LDS that they were disappointed because someone had kept the law in the drawer for so long, a European warrant for arrest and sale, that is, how disappointed we are in the opposition when we adopt such a large number of laws under urgent procedure. Well, of course it's inappropriate. And I can honestly tell you that all these laws, including what we are currently dealing with, have not been able to be carefully examined, and we are actually wondering what you want to do and how you want to do it. All together, i.e. the law, within an hour and a half on the Infrastructure Committee, with so many amendments, it was not possible to supplement quality. And if you look at Article 11, these are Articles 101 a to 101 f, I must say that these articles are extremely unreadable, they are vague and complex, they increase the level of red tape, and on the other hand they do nothing or solve the problem that Slovenia is one of those countries where some documentation is needed for the introduction of a new activity to wait between European countries for as long as possible. We are convinced that these matters could be substantially simplified and more concrete and understandablely written, but, of course, because of the time constraints in which you pushed us into fact, it has not been possible to do so or actually to do so in relation to this law. However, if I touch on individual articles, for example, Article 19 says that the Agricultural Land Fund in protected areas, which, of course, is established by the Government at its own discretion, in relation to European directives, Natura 2000 and the Birds Directive, should indicate part of the surplus over income or part of the surplus of expenditure. Each year, the government determines what level of funds this is. We are convinced that such a solution is even contrary to the law of agricultural land. For the agricultural land fund must take care of agricultural land in the whole of the Republic of Slovenia. And if, in some areas, it indicates more resources than is actually obtained in those areas under this heading, then, of course, there will be no funding for those tasks imposed by the Agricultural Lands Act. So, the right and reasonable solution would be to have the government for protected areas, which will also be prescribed by the act itself, find some other resources rather than simply, to put it like this, write a Solomonic solution into the law and say that the fund should contribute to these areas of funds that are collected on the giro account. I would like to draw attention to some other articles. Article 23 is completely unclear, in fact a number of articles in this law, could be expressed as Dr. Brejc said yesterday in a spatial plan decision when he said that the law was written in some incomprehensible Latvian language. I am convinced that European directives, which, of course, due to lack of time, we have not been able to fully examine and we do not know whether, as they are written, they have been introduced into this law, such complex content formulations and incomprehensible content formulations, but that this is the work of our domestic bureaucracy in the ministry, where it sometimes seems that some trainees are proposing laws that then do not even know what these things look like in practice. Like this law, I say, it will be very difficult to implement in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko will speak on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome everything, both the Minister and her co-worker, as well as all fellow Members and fellow Members! We have recently experienced a flood of environmental legislation. At this meeting, I think we are dealing with at least three important strategic documents, and for all three strategic documents, we can say that they are extremely poorly prepared. That these documents in the government are being prepared in time and that time pressure is then reflected in the National Assembly where Members are forced to process these huge amounts of paper in a very short time. In short, there is very little time left for things to be studied, well studied, and complemented. And it is true that this legislation is extremely weak, and it also shows that a quarter of all that the ministry delivers to the National Assembly is adopted in the form that it has been submitted. At least three quarters of the articles are being amended, at least three quarters of the articles are being amended and the vast majority of the articles are substantially amended. If someone made a comparison between the legislation that had been tabled and what had been adopted, they would see that this was actually extremely catastrophic. The problem is also that all these laws go through government coordination once, twice, three times, so that all of these laws, which they propose, are also coalitionly coordinated and in the end very many amendments, including the substantive, important amendments, are tabled by the ruling coalition groups. In short, the imperfections of the law, the imperfections of the legislative procedure are shown mainly in the National Assembly, where we face enormous amounts of amendments. And I don't think this practice is good. This law has only 27 articles; if those articles were to be added together, it has about 35. Now that we have it on the table, it is clear that there are only eight articles that are not amended, all the others have been changed, and this has been substantially changed. I think that the government, and on behalf of the government, is obviously also using pressure from the Ministry on 1 May, pressure to enter the European Union and using this date as a method of pressure on the national assembly to adopt this law, with one or another urgency. I am convinced that such a way of working cannot result in a good and quality marriage. The consequences are usually very soon and there are additions, novelties, and so on. If I touch only one of the areas covered by the law, this is one of such areas of public interest. Now we have been parliamentarians for so long that we know that the public interest in transition liberal societies in fact has no special weight, in fact it has no value, because everything can actually be bought, everything can be changed and a typical case that is true is also the destruction of the Ljubljana Bark, a typical example is the amendment of the Triglav National Park Act and so on. In short, even where we have an adequate area at our disposal, at a time when certain interventions into the premises are accepted and planned, even there the capital is subject to one such value as wetlands such as the Ljubljana Barje. I have more than five minutes, don't I? And what it just shows is that this capital interest is irresistibly destroying all the values that remain. I would just like to point out that the ministry has apparently restructured a lot. The beginning, I remember, was extremely nature-friendly, there was a lot of effort involved in the discussions, in the design and protection of certain areas. Recently, however, they have somehow gained priority over all those ministry activities that mean typical capital matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Time's up. Five minutes is the limit for everyone. A colleague of Silva Montenegro will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by a colleague of Malovre. I don't see him in the hall. Please, colleague nigger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! Dearly beloved, we are all well aware of the claim that the state of the environment and the nature of the reflections of the state of society and of the people living there create and operate. It is a sad fact that our civilisation is constantly and increasingly stricken and, unfortunately, irreversibly changing, and often or mostly, the inferiority and quality of the bibian environment for all of us, humans, animals and plants. The task of all of us members of the National Assembly is to create effective, clear and transparent laws, which will either slow down this process, can also be mitigated, and some have even prevented, in particular those that have such harmful effects, that they endanger the life and quality of life of all of us. With each consideration of nature's issues in a broader and narrower sense, we encounter the emergence of sustainable development. Over the past period, we have considered a series of national programmes, resolutions and laws, such as the national energy programme, the spatial development strategy of Slovenia and others, which have involved sustainable development in their own way and put it as a priority in all areas. As librarian, we have also set sustainable development in the Librarianism Act as one of the priorities for the second place. In the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that a very important balanced relationship with nature, particularly in the economic system, is also environmentally coordinated and defined as a long-term objective and orientation in all areas. This should be linked to co-natural development, which should follow appropriate production and service activities, which at the same time allow for the conservation of ecosystems and the stable survival of organisms, which should follow the improvement of the human environment, the strengthening of human and material creative capacities, and ensure the adequate well-being of the population and the community. And let all this in one way preserve the material and cultural heritage, for us, our families, and especially for all the other craftsmen. In order to implement these principles and guidelines, it is essential and important to take into account all development aspects and attempts to rationalise energy consumption in households, economies and in the whole country or society. It is important for all Members of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to be aware of the fact that the consumption and use of what is to be controlled is to reduce, and not only the use of energy and all natural resources, but all other goods. For each year, it is necessary to determine precisely and precisely how much and how much is spent in specific areas, what are the nature interventions, what is the quality of these interventions, how and how it is appropriate to plan separate energy consumption and use for all areas, as this also has a direct impact on the conservation of nature and of all natural resources. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act, which we are considering under urgent procedure, follows and takes account of the new European directives. These are the directives of the European Community for the conservation of birds, the Directives for the conservation of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora, the Directive of the European Community on trade in young seals and products thereof, the Directive of the European Community on animal and animal welfare, the Council of Europe Regulation on the protection of wildlife by regulating trade in this area, the Regulation on the Prohibition of the Use of Special Types of Traps, the Regulation on the Rules of Procedure for the Product of Whale Products. All these present laws also take into account certain sub-legislative acts relating to customs proceedings. They fully comply with the legislation. Unlike others, legislation in this area, in particular European legislation, is constantly changing and is more difficult and fragile to learn, especially because it deals with the integrity of life and co-existence. It is expected that we will continue to amend this part of the legislation in the coming years. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , as the achievements of the professions of various fields are also very rich and diverse. [[...]] In the UK Group, we will support the present law as it protects all interventions into space, in particular from the very reckless actions of some individuals and groups, who are only up to their present and swift earnings. Of course, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we are wondering when we will also begin to draw up a strategy for the sustainable development of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. My colleague Vnučec now has the floor to present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the parliamentary group, we have carefully examined the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act, and we note that the explanation does not show what the specific implementation of European Union law relates to in relation to Natura 2000 and that many questions arise. Will the territories under Natura 2000 be better protected against construction outside the settlement area or less by this proposal? How are Natura 2000 sites protected outside the borders outlined? It is also necessary to define an influential area, as many interventions immediately beyond the Natura 2000 border have the same impact as if they are formally within. What about the planned parks? The applicant, apart from the excuses for Slovenia's entry into the European Union, does not specifically explain why the adoption procedure is necessary. This has elegibly avoided the broader discussion of the proposed amendments and, above all, prevented the participation of non-governmental environmental organisations which, for a broader debate, require sufficient time. Therefore, we wonder what would have changed if the law had been adopted on a regular basis, and what would have been the specific consequences of such a hurry? We are confident that the urgent procedure will certainly not achieve better immediate protection of the area from outside the premises or from the change in the destination of the land, which certainly does not contribute to the conservation of nature but, above all, to its threat. The section on protected areas or those envisaged for insurance is also very vague. The answer to whether, in the case of eligible denationalisation claims to land in parks, payments and non-returns are required is not. Fragmenting multiple owners can be unproductive and bring many problems. That's why we're asking the proposers whether or not we're asking 148. does the article allow for payment instead of return in nature? In the Group of Members, it is estimated that point 1.3 should definitely be exempted from the urgency procedure, as a much broader debate is needed than this in the context of the urgent procedure. It is also estimated that, with regard to environmental impact assessments, the actual consequences can be identified without a detailed examination. Does the applicant have a simulation of the consequences, or what is the difference between the current arrangements? What does that mean for Natura 2000?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u27	A little more peace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u28	So, are the park territories foreseen at least for the interim insurance order? The bill therefore raises many questions, and we hope to receive at least some answers from the proposer. Above all, we believe that the process of adopting a law on the conservation of nature should be regular, since the area of nature conservation is so important that we must not allow the mistakes that always take place in an emergency. In the parliamentary group, we will decide, according to the applicant's replies, whether the proposed law is meaningfully supported, as it is not possible to know this from the very poorly prepared explanations. However, it would be much better if it were withdrawn and placed in the next meeting on a regular basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Ašić will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! So, in the introductory presentations of some of the parliamentary groups, there were fears that we would, at least so I understood that we would be underprotective in the future of Slovenia. In the LDS Group, we fear that the EU Directive under the common name Natura 2000, which also incorporates the 1979 Birds Directive, is a very important limiting factor in some of the development projects and programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in the future. I also raised this question yesterday when adopting a strategy on the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia, what Natura 2000 and the implementation of this Directive mean. In order to better understand this law, Members and Members should certainly be aware of the EU's detailed directive on habitats and birds, because this law, which we are now enacting, is only about how we will implement these directives. The content is contained in the directives and the content of this law will appear in a programme to be adopted by the Government or in the definition of Natura 2000 areas, to be adopted by the Government and in the protection programme to be adopted by the Government. Because we do not know enough about the content - we are informally informed that about 38% of Slovenian territory will be included in Natura 2000, which is understandable in some respects what percentage of Slovenia is covered by forests and natural habitats, but we will be interested in what conservation and conservation regimes will be envisaged. In the LDS Group, we will support the law, but we will also give the initiative to the Infrastructure Committee to present both the protection areas and the measures, although the National Assembly does not have any powers to identify these two important documents, but we believe that we need to be very closely aware of them. As far as this 19th article, which is being amended by this law, is concerned, we support it, as we ourselves assess that the free funds of the agricultural land fund must be used for specific purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you. Before we go to the debate on the amendment, my colleague Terchón has already applied for it, and I would like to give the floor to my colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! The Nature Conservation Act was adopted in 1999 in the National Assembly, in 2000, and amendments to the Basic Law were adopted in 2002. Today we have yet another novelty of this law, with which the government wishes to comply in law with EU legislation and other laws adopted that have infringed on the provisions of the current law on nature conservation. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can I please, sir please, if it is [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u33	I'm asking for peace in the hall! You're in the way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u34	As with all the laws on today's agenda, we will also adopt this law as a matter of urgency. The National Assembly is forced to adopt a series of laws in the highest possible haste in the course of the entire long-term pre-accession process into the European Union, as a matter of urgency. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we oppose the adoption of laws by emergency procedures for a number of reasons. But what bothers us most is that laws adopted in haste are not sufficiently professional, especially lacking. In addition, the interested professional public is prevented from participating in the preparation and examination of the professional content of the law. This will also indicate the time when laws adopted in haste will prove harmful in the long run. The same applies to the Nature Conservation Act, which in principle regulates the protection of wild plant and animal species, their habitats and habitat types. The shortcomings of the law are obvious, as can be seen from the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments and warnings to most of the articles of the proposed law. Slovenia is one of the few countries in Europe that can still boast of biodiversity, and probably not for long, because we will soon destroy it ourselves. On the one hand, the government wants to meet the European Union, and on the other hand, it cares little about the nature of the carelessness to the environment we have witnessed so far. Thus, we are once again faced with a law that provides, legally and formally, a framework for action with the actual state of affairs and has no connection in the field of nature conservation. In view of the important content or subject matter, we assess the material of this law in the Slovenian National Party that the law is necessary. However, we sincerely hope that the proposed changes and amendments to the law in practice will prove necessary and positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you very much, colleague Sonja Areh Lavrich. You were the last of the Members and Members to present the views of the Group. We're at the amendment. Only one is invested in the second reading. Amendment of four parliamentary groups, LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DesUS. It can be discussed. I'm asking you only about the content of the amendment. I'd like a colleague of Tarchoon to sign up for the floor. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Yes, please. [[...]] Just calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u36	Mr President, I think you've overlooked [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u37	First we ask for peace in the hall! Just a minute. I'll ask for peace first. Comrade Lavrinz! I don't hear much. Not that I'm liquid, but I hear bad, and then there's a misunderstanding. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u38	Mr President, I think you have overlooked that an amendment of five Members has been tabled under Article 5 of this Act. The amendment of the parliamentary groups to Article 27. That's how two amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u39	I missed that. We need to find out right away if that's true. Who tabled the amendment, Comrade Auschwitz? Who tabled the amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u40	Auschwitz, Grošelj, Christmas, Pohorec and Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thanks for the heads-up. I missed it. Thank you very much. So we have an amendment to Article 5 and Article 27. Thank you so much for the heads-up. We will first open the debate on the amendment to Article 5. Anybody want a word? Please, Comrade Auschwitz, and once again an apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you very much. This amendment was not dealt with on the Committee as a whole because, according to the difficult nature of the material, we coordinated it and also cleared the individual concepts. In fact, in the opening presentation, I pointed out, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the implementation of the European Union's Habitats Directive or the Natura 2000 Directive, which was also important in the implementation of the Birds Directive. And we were warned that the Birds Directive was actually talking about "protected areas", and Directive 2000 was translated, if we are very precise, about "preservation areas". In fact, we have both terms repeated several times in different articles in the law, but it is not clear what is the difference between protection and preservation. To make it clear that in Article 5 and beyond the whole law for the implementation of the first EU Habitats Directive 2000, including the Birds Directive, we propose this amendment to regulate the whole law in Article 5 by adding it to the special protection area in Subtitle 5 of Article 5. [[think]] - an explanation that this is the Natura 2000 area and that this is also highlighted in the text of the first paragraph of this Article. According to the legislative services, the drafting of the whole law would be too demanding, and the criminal part of this law is not open, as a result of which too many problems would arise in editorial corrections. I believe that this is a very important explanation and that perhaps the minister or anyone else on behalf of the government will explain the difference between the'security areas' and 'protected areas'. For I reiterate that in the LDS Group we are very afraid that the implementation of these directives will, of course, lead to a very hard regime of environmental protection, contrary to those who think it is relaxing. Because we are afraid and it would not be the first time that the Slovenians have been more brussels than Brussels itself, we would really like to present a programme of protection and protection measures so that these fears might dissipate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you very much. So I think we need a hard way of protecting ourselves, and that's not the problem. Of course, the problem is how this law is flatly prepared and written. In fact, Mr Ašić's debate confirms what we members of the opposition have stressed in these five-minute performances. See, the first paragraph of Article 5 says: "The special protection zone is an ecologically important area which is important in the territory of the European Union to preserve or achieve the favourable status of birds and other animal and plant species, their habitats and habitat types." And then it ends: "Special protection areas form a European ecological network called Natura 2000." So that's all it's written about. We then state in Article 19 that, in accordance with the decision of the Government, the Agricultural Land Fund will have to allocate part of the financing to these special protection areas. Firstly, we do not even know how large and where these special protection areas are, what we will protect in these protection areas, what resources are needed to do so. So, in this law there are many questions and such a law, as incomplete as this, of course cannot achieve its purpose, even if it is being corrected by such amendments, as proposed by five of our colleagues. I think that, in fact, even if it is just a novelty, it should be corrected, that we should have more time and time to deal with these proposals, we should think more about these solutions and, above all, see if they are in line with European directives. If, as the applicant claims, it would probably not be necessary to propose amendments as proposed in Article 27, where it says that the content of the Directive is summarised in this law. Then why write this again if you are saying that the correction is a summary of the content of the Directives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Webber. Here you go. Then Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. If I am correctly reading this Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5, then I note that the Government sets out specific protection areas which will then be sent to Europe and the competent authority of the European Union to confirm the potential specific conservation areas and, of course, those areas will then be designated as conservation zones. So, the government makes a proposal, sends it to the bodies of the European Union and they decide in these bodies, this is a conservation area - and Slovenia has no influence. Do I read this article properly? It's a disaster! It's a disaster for me! And if this is what these directives say, then I think that those who interpret these directives are certainly misleading the entire Slovenian public. In order to proceed with the procedure, the government will decide what it will declare to be a special protection area without any procedures leading to a local level and in all other areas of interest, whether it is acceptable or not, I am certainly not following this procedure in the directive - and I am now referring to it - I do not. Since this is not a European principle, it is not a European scratch, certainly not! And Natura 2000 is being used, which is about birds, including all other protection areas, so we are talking about 30% of the territory of the whole of Slovenia, which can be declared a protected area in Europe, and those living in these areas will not be able to say a! How can such solutions even be recorded in marriage? I really have to admit in this rapid adoption of the law I have failed, I would say, to examine all these matters earlier, so I am warning you at this point in Article 5 of which we are talking about, and if this law is enacted in this way, this is a disaster for 30% of Slovenia. And that's unacceptable, we can't make it legal! This law needs to be drawn up in a way that will be in line with the directive, so that the public can participate in all these matters and that Europe will have the feeling that we have carried out a process correctly, but not in a way that the government will write something, Europe has accepted - sorry, but we did not want to do so, but Europe has said otherwise. In fact, I am protesting against such a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you. I'm sorry, but there's been some kind of misunderstanding. The special protection area has been contained in the nature conservation law since 1999. The special protection area is determined by the government - the law already states. In Europe - several times I stress - we have two directives, "birds" and "habitative", and the governments of the Member States must, you do not want to, declare an area where the endangered plant or animal species appears as a special protection area. They have to! However, the procedure for a declaration is different according to one Directive and the other. After the so-called 'bird directive', the government shall determine these areas and make known them to Brussels. Where other endangered plant and animal species occur: mosses, beetles, fish, bears and so on - all of this covers the 'habitative directive', and the process is different there. The Government shall designate a special protection area which, following the dictated by this amendment, has the name'special conservation area', it shall be designated as a proposal. This proposal is then negotiated in Brussels. And there is a specific procedure in the directive. This debate, where, of course, the Commission always wants more and the country usually wants less, takes several years. We have a'special protection area' as a term in the law since 1999, in this novel we only divide it into a special protection area under the 'birds' directive, which is called'special protection area', and into'special protection area' under the Habitat Directive, which is called'special conservation area'. They have two different statuses. Both are referred to as the'special protection area', which is a European important, ecologically important area. But Mr. Sok was talking about completely different things, about protected areas. The protected areas, however, are parks, this is not a special protection area and the status of one and another area is significantly different. There's a regime in the parks, and there's bans, you know, in Triglav National Park something can be done, but mostly nothing can be done. In specific protection areas, this is in the Natura 2000 network, but only guidelines are given which are the planning guidelines that are taken into account in the preparation of plans, municipal plans, and any municipal plan, as well as the state plan in that area, must be given a comprehensive assessment. This does not mean that nothing should be done there; that no houses should be built, that no factories should be built, that no roads or anything should be done. I'm sure that doesn't mean that. It just means that when something like this is planned on those 30% of the territory of Slovenia, it is necessary to make a comprehensive assessment. A full assessment is a prerequisite for the adoption of the plan. Once again, these are orientations, this is not a regime. And that surplus of revenue over the expenditure of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund is not directed into specific protection areas, i.e. into the Natura 2000 network, but into protected areas, these are parks and only apply to those parts of Slovenian territory. The area of Nartura 2000 will probably be, very much in my mind, about 35% of Slovenian territory, the area of parks is now about 10% of Slovenian territory. These areas do not overlap at all but mainly. But I would like to stress in particular that we are not currently discussing "protected areas" and the regime in the area of "special protection areas". The amendment, as proposed by the Group of Members, is welcome, because it only further explains something that, in my opinion, is quite clearly written in the law, but nevertheless, we support it as an editorial improvement of the text and because it further explains the generic term "special protection area", which, as I have explained, is divided into a special protection area, this is a "bird directive" and a special conservation area - a "habitative directive". We need to declare special protection zones before May 1st this year. At this point in Brussels, we are already awaiting the so-called "infrigement" procedure - we have been officially informed - due to non-declaration and will begin to run on 1 May. In Brussels, several directives are extremely closely controlled and one of them is one of them, and of course we must do so. That is why we urgently need this law. We could theoretically do so under the old 1999 law, but we should not make this distinction between the areas under the "birds" and the "habitative" directive. After all, this is also due to the needs of the local public, the municipalities, the countries, after all, we need to plan and it is good for us to make this distinction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. To my word, Mr. Tarchoon, then Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u50	Well, with most of what the minister said, I agree, but we have, in my opinion, one big problem. We are now in the "zeitnot" when we need to adopt a law on nature conservation, so that we will have no negative consequences, so that we can open the way for the adoption of Nature 2000. However, the problem is that Natura 2000 has been coordinated for a very long time and has not been seen by the general public and also by Members. Another problem is that Members and the public do not know what it means to adopt this Directive and what it means to protect biodiversity, and of course also birds. So it would be good, I think the ministry would explain what this means before we adopt the law. Because if we now adopt the law, we have no formal possibility of stopping the adoption of Nature 2000 and we do not have a formal possibility of having an impact on the change of Nature 2000. And people don't know what that means. That's why I think it would be good for this state council to say that. According to my data, almost 40% of Slovenia is protected. This does not mean absolute protection, but protection is also a stretching concept that can be interpreted and can also constitute a very high level of protection. As I have already pointed out, Slovenia has a very dispersed settlement, a large number of settlements, and I do not know a European country which in this way would have such a high level of protection. So we're dealing with maximum protection, we're allowing ourselves to discuss various planning documents, public debates, and here through the side door we're going to quickly adopt the law and through the side door we're going to quickly adopt Natura 2000, which will, in a certain way or another, protect the largest areas, proportionally or proportionally, in Europe. Therefore, I think that we should consider in this national assembly before the adoption of this law, what can be done, for the first time, formally - what our colleague Weber was talking about, that we could have some influence, especially the public concerned and also the national assembly, and that we would eventually learn what this protection means. Members do not know - to look at their areas, some will be satisfied, some mayors will also, will not tange them, some will be very unhappy. Depends on which side they're looking from. Some will be content to be protected, others will be unhappy to be protected, some will be dissatisfied because they are not protected. But we don't even know that today. And in Natura 2000 there are now also lapsuses, which are completely unacceptable. Even urban settlements are protected. Of course it's a mistake. I don't even know if they'll get better. I don't know how this is going to work out. So, the stranger's full. I think we should take the time, Mr Minister, to think about it and to know the way forward; that events would simply not be premature and explain to us how these almost 40% of the protected areas in Slovenia have occurred. I believe they were even bigger at first. I know that there is a very hot correspondence between the various representatives of civil society from Slovenia and Brussels, where they "peer" each other because of their own interests. People in protected areas don't know anything about it. One wonders who then decides. So I would suggest that we consider how we would take at least some time to know the way forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Weber, then Mr. Auschwitz, to the floor. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u52	The Minister said that only a special protection area for birds was established, for example, and that it did not interfere with other protection areas. The eighth paragraph of Article 5 states: "The protection of other areas shall also be provided in the manner referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article." The second paragraph says: "The government sets special protection areas in the country and the protection objectives," so we can understand that the government also determines the protection of other areas - namely, the same as for specific areas. I therefore argue that there is no such solution in any directive in Europe and that you exclude the public from this decision. And if Europe is speaking in a Directive on the protection of endangered species and is talking about endangered areas of nature and so on, it has in mind certain endangered species which it has threatened with its operation in the EU area so far. We did not put them at risk in many areas in Slovenia. But Europe will tell us: OK, we will not solve this anymore, we will solve this problem in Slovenia and, as a percentage, everyone in the European Union will be pleased. But that percentage of protection will obviously fall back on Slovenia, and therefore I think that this is a really severe restriction, an overly severe decision that the National Assembly can overtake with this law following the procedure currently envisaged. And I am also of the opinion - without knowing Natura 2000, it is not possible to take a closer look at all these measures that will follow. At least I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Auschwitz to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I think it's good that this amendment has been tabled, that we will still be able to explain some things in this law. It is a mistake to accept Natura 2000 today. And some in front of me, too, Mr Tarchoon spoke about the fact that we should have a debate before we accept Natura 2000. Natura 2000 is a directive and the Birds Directive, which has been in force since 1979. This law provides for a way of implementing these Directives. This is already what awaits us in Europe. We will have to adopt, if necessary, the European Union regulation with internal acts, how we will implement it. Those that do not need to be implemented directly, but directly. And I think he's giving it just to explain. And this explanatory amendment that we are actually talking about conservation areas, but within conservation areas some will be protected under the Birds Directive - is necessary. And I think even too little in this law is highlighted and we mix concepts. However, of course, we still fear that we also do not know how this conservation protection will work. If I have correctly understood a statement by the Minister concerning the sultry in Sava, Lithuania, where the protected area will in some way also become a protected area, this element means that there will be no hydroelectric power plant planned there in the spatial acts and in the energy programme. These are the stories that will appear in the further implementation of the directives and this law of ours and we know little about it. For this reason, I think that the National Assembly, and at least the Infrastructure Committee, should have a cartographic work presented and also a substantive part of how this level of conservation will be achieved in accordance with the European Directive. I would, of course, ask that we do separate these protected areas and conservation areas, and that we do not mix everything up, because these are different levels of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Gasparini to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you. I don't think we know much in Natura 2000. I can tell you from yesterday's discussion on the municipal council in Isola that this thing was presented, and I think we can all imagine it. As Mr Azhish has said, we mix one thing with another, and that is true. And it's not true or true. What Mr Weber is talking about; this directive, which deals with birds, is over fifteen years old, the second is also ten years old, or twelve years old, 1992 and 1987. And look at what was presented yesterday, say in Isola, what we're going to protect, especially protect. As far as I know, Mr Minister, there are now 12 or 13 such programmes that have been presented in the European Union in the framework of Nature 2000 and in no way will there be what Mr Terčon said would be under this. I don't think so. What we want to protect, say, in the area of the congregation of Izole as Natura 2000. Not like grass that has its own special name, which is only found in this area between Koper and Isola, by the sea. It's not a bird, it's grass, Mr. Webber. So don't say "just." But I agree that we don't know this Nature, but it's an old thing, old like this country. And that's not it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. To my word, Mr. Sok, then Mr. Webber. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'll call again and then I won't. Basically, this law, as it is written down, I say, is incomplete and I agree with all those who say that you do not know what this law brings. But I'm only going to tell you one case that I know very well and is over ten years old. At our home, in the area of our congregation, ornithologists observed a goldsmith. Then, of course, one municipal – then, now it will be no more, it is now on a state level, but then a municipal decree on the protection of the golden crowbar was adopted. And this matter, of course, in practice, meant that in that area where intensive orchards are, fruit growers should no longer be allowed to use certain resources. Of course, the state, then the congregation, which then compensated the state’s resources, had to replace this omission. Once again, I do not mind what they will be like: large, special or protected and so on. There are no criteria written here. What bothers me the most is that the state does not provide any funds for this. Even the law explains that this law will have no direct financial implications. Of course it's not true, it can't be true. One part of the funds for protected areas may be allocated by the government from the agricultural land fund, but the agricultural land fund has a different function and I think you know what it has. So if the fund is taken away by all funds, I don't know what he's going to do and how he's going to do it in the other areas. So, the government doesn't guarantee financial coverage, and I wanted to point out that first. This law, as it is written, will, of course, have financial implications. Who's gonna cover them, I don't know. But if you take away a right from someone in some area, you have to replace it in some way. How else can we imagine the functioning of agriculture or farming in the field of the Republic of Slovenia? Mr Terchoon is right when he says we do not know how big these areas will be, because this law, as it is, is not sufficiently debated - I am sure of that - and will have great consequences for our citizens, who are not aware of Parliament and our fellow citizens at this time. They don't even know them, because we don't even know them, let alone the citizens. I don't know what the solution is. It's not good to take it that way. In the introduction to the presentation of the parliamentary position, I do not know why you kept this in the drawer and why you are coming to the meeting with an urgent procedure, force Members to press the button, vote something, and then what will happen will happen. Of course, this is not a serious way and a serious approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Webber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u60	I wanted to explain to Mr Gasparini how I would look at this problem if he was declared a seashore in Isola with Natura 2000 as a special protection area used by birds. We're talking about the seashore in Isola if it were declared a special protection area for birds. I'm giving you this comparison because in Kočev there is a lake of Bachelors to declare such a reservation. This turns off the entire use of the lake and is intended for birds. The law itself speaks of the fact that, of course, if you want to establish another public interest that is supposed to prevail over the public benefit of nature conservation, you can, of course, do so, but you must prove this public interest and once you prove it, the competent authority of the self-government local community must make sure that the compensatory measures are determined in more detail in the appropriate plan and their implementation. This means that, for example, Isololamora would invent her own sea somewhere else and say: OK. But this other sea we're going to use for birds. And the same is true for Kočevje: if we want to implement this, we will have to invent another lake somewhere where we will say: we are replacing this measure. This set of extremes that can follow if this law is adopted in this way as it is written here. And that is why this issue really, really needs deeper debates and greater exchanges, I will say, insights into the concrete solutions to the problems we know in the environment. I think it's also possible to do this until May 1st - a peaceful soul. However, we certainly do not have data today that will have what effect on all these areas envisaged for insurance if the law is adopted in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Copac to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u62	What Mr. Weber said makes me very angry. You, Mr Weber, with ignorance, indeed, are misleading Members here with ignorance and threatening what will happen. It is not true that a reservation with a special protection area is being declared! The reservation regime is something completely different, the reservation regime means nothing can really be done there. If this nomadic lake, now, I don't know, had fallen into the Natura 2000 area due to the presence of birds, this does not mean a complete obstacle for activities on the lake that are being carried out at this moment or for any sports and similar that are yet to be carried out. Absolutely no obstacle. If anyone says that, you said, "Reservation, we can't do anything, we have to make a new lake if we need anything." That is not true, it means not knowing the law on the preservation of nature and the regimes prescribed therein, so this intimidation is totally unjustifiable. In addition, the regimes laid down in the Nature Conservation Act - not in this novel - this novel speaks only of one thing: it introduces a comprehensive assessment of the adoption of plans. The designation of areas is also possible without this novel, because under the 1999 Nature Conservation Act we already have the opportunity to declare special protection areas - as a government. And we will do so by 1 May, because we have to meet this obligation, this directive is one of the stricter directives of the European Union. Once again, the establishment of a special protection zone is no fun! It only means that a comprehensive assessment should be made in the course of planned interventions in that area. This only means that there is an existing use - what Mr Sok was talking about is also a pure fiction! It is inappropriate to compare an area with a goldsmith, proclaimed by the congregation of Ormož, if I understand correctly, in the past. The establishment of a specific protection zone means that all current uses, donkeys, pesticide use, are allowed, continue to be permitted, but the use of space must not deteriorate or deteriorate to this extent in order to endanger the existence of an endangered plant or animal species which makes that area declared a special protection zone. This alone means the establishment of a specific protection area. It's not a park, it's not a natural reserve, it's not a natural monument, it's all I've just mentioned, it's a prohibition regime. A special protection zone is not a prohibition regime; it is only a comprehensive impact assessment regime when a spatial plan is adopted, that is all. Even harmful interventions may be required, but alternative measures are required. So if, what I know, I'm making up, on that nomadic lake we want to build a part of the coast, that means that bird's nests have to be built - I'm making up now, I'm thinking very much that somewhere on the other side of the coast where it's possible, but for now there's no such situation, that the birds will be nesting there now if they're nesting where there's going to be a walled shore. However, to build it, even though it has been declared a special protection area, still theoretically yes, only a procedure is needed. That's what we're talking about in this novel. But only the area, once again, can be declared after the current law. So please don't make any trouble out of this novel. The Natura 2000 area will be declared, it must be in place by 1 May and we will not be late. This paper only details the planning process and introduces that distinction between the'special conservation area' and the'special protection area' which I mentioned earlier. And that's good for us, so I think it's inappropriate to trouble you with that. Let me put it this way. Although we have been driving the communication about Nature 2000 quite intensively for one year. Members may not have been involved and many others from the public concerned have been involved. I'm going to be next week, but this is a computer problem, because this is a huge database, it's sending out professional bases and planned areas across municipalities. I expect comments, of course, but these comments should not be such: we do not like that it is Natura. The comments I expect will be these: the professional basis you used, what I know is that there's some endangered bug in there, I'm making it up, I'm not sticking. You have to answer back with professional arguments. In such a case, of course, we have a basis for cutting things out, saying: no, but there will be no. But if the pressure is only going to be like this: we don't like the fact that something is being declared here now, because it means some restriction in space, in future plans, of course we won't be able to take that into account. But once again, this has nothing to do with this novel that is before us today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you very much. In order of order: Mr Bevk, Mrs Montenegro, Mr Weber. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Obviously, Europe does not only bring benefits, but also some problems or obligations. In my opinion, a number of directives will surprise us, perhaps because of our lack of knowledge. Of course, I will support the marriage today. After all, we already adopted the Natura 2000 project in the Spatial Development Strategy yesterday, as it was written in yesterday's strategy. However, on a specific occasion from our environment, I will say that I also support it from this point of view. In fact, in the Idrijca River, where the energy lobby is very intensive and we would like to practically sink it and there was nothing to build in this valley for decades, because this valley was reserved for the construction of the large Megaman hydropower plant Trebush, this Natura 2000 would finally be declared and placed on this list four fish species, among them the most famous solstice trout, where a repopulation project has been under way for 10 years, and with this energy lobby they would actually cut down the wings and preserve our beautiful river, one of the most interesting pre-Alpine rivers. Well, that's one such positive aspect of this Nature 2000. That's why, I repeat, I will uphold the law. However, I agree that, as the Minister has already said, the government should familiarise the local communities with this project and, on the other hand, I think that before 1 May this project should also be officially introduced to the Home Committee on Environment and Infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I would just like to say that with this Natura 2000 project, which is actually a very large, very complicated and very demanding project, at the Parliamentary Group of GLOBE Slovenia in this Parliament we had the opportunity to get to know, of course, the extent to which the Ministry was prepared to introduce us at that time. And in that period, they just said how, in what way, they're trying to make it happen and how much trouble and how much trouble they're forced to land, either in their discussions with the European Union, and finally the problems they have with the financing and implementation of this project. It is true, Mr Minister, that at that time in the parliamentary group your colleagues said they are aware of the difficulties and problems that Natura will actually cause in the local communities in one way. In order to avoid all those conflicts, which are also evident in this debate in some way, an accompanying information programme for the public and local communities should also be adopted. You know this too, and the European Union's demand has been running in some way. How, in what way these matters will be represented by local communities, as well as ways to avoid resistance. You probably have an expert team capable of doing that. However, you must be aware that you yourself have said that each of these projects and directives brings a number of new terms that we had to redefine, that, what I know, three, four laws have only 500 new terms. Until people get used to the terms, to the content of these terms, where else, where is the result of the implementation of all these new terms and the consequences they require, for example, measures relating to them, implementation. And then, as a result of implementation, control of this implementation. This is said to be certainly a heavy burden for you and the Ministry's co-workers to inform the public. This way of informing you was also presented to you, including some of your guests who participated in the Ener conference, and we also had some demonstration programs on how, in what way, the public is informed that there are as few problems as possible. You know, it is very difficult to explain what this means, "special conservation areas", protection areas" and so on. And people certainly mix these terms with the consequences that these terms bring. I think it's up to you and us to keep you informed. Why are the other Members not informed? It would be your task, and in your interest, to inform all members of the National Assembly first, because, ultimately, it is also up to them to adopt a type of these laws and there would certainly be fewer disagreements and misunderstandings than there have been so far. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Webber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you. So, Minister, I'm not saying I know all the legislation in the field of environmental protection. We could talk about this for a long time and perhaps come to similar conclusions that we both lack knowledge of this area. However, with regard to deception, the Minister - now I ask you to listen carefully to me - you said that with Natura 2000, when we set up special protection areas, we have not yet declared anything, there is nothing yet defined, it is just a basis for adopting a spatial plan. If you read Article 5 of this Act, it says: "The special protection area is an ecologically important area and these areas form a European ecological network called Natura 2000." Here we go: "When the competent authorities of the European Union confirm the potential special conservation zones, a regulation issued pursuant to the second paragraph of this Article shall determine those areas as special conservation zones." They're determining! In the process of adopting a spatial plan, you can only justify the public benefit that is different from nature conservation, and then you can succeed by amending this regulation, but provided you provide substitute areas - but this local community must ensure. And there's no way. There's no way you're gonna make up another lake like that. I am therefore referring to the fact that, in fact, if you have accused me of misleading, but Article 5 speaks precisely of determining in the bodies of the European Community these areas, and when they are determined, there is no more negotiations in spatial plans - there is no more negotiations, there is only consideration or non-compliance. And if it's not taken into account, you need to specifically define an ecological area like this at another location. Yeah, where are you gonna get it? Where are you gonna get it? In another country? It's hard. Home? Probably not.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u70	I would just like to say to my esteemed colleague Gasparini that I said earlier that some would be pleased, those who have managed to look at that Natura 2000 but also some others who have looked at Natura 2000 and have 98% or 100% of the area protected by some regime that is not yet clearly defined. And there goes the development of your path, brings some demands, some desires and plenty of time running out of space. Mr. Gasparini, I agree that you have no major problems. 70, 80% of the area of Izola or even more is unprotected, is not in this area; in this area you have Kostabona and some villages around. And from this point of view, this is not a problem for you. It is also necessary to think of someone else, of the Bohin region, of my karst region, of the area of Mr Webra, of the avian region, and of many others. And it takes a little tenderness. Otherwise, I hope that, after what Mr Minister has announced, although time is very short, some areas will be harmonised and that there will be no marriage, for the first time, of lapsuses, for the second time, that it will be taken into account that in some areas, if we want to have polycentric development, there are also people living and that there must be some cohesion here to give space to virtually all. I expect that this public debate will take place across local communities in the general public, that Members will also see this and that Natura 2000 will be coordinated at least to a minimum. It is true, however, that by means of this law we are closing formal channels with greater interference with this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much. And Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Look! Okay, maybe we made a mistake because we didn't go more intensively into some kind of communication before. And I have already decided that next week, more towards the end of the week, we will try to make some kind of presentation of this project for all interested Members. So you can see the proposed areas and the regime so there won't be any misunderstandings. As far as the settlement is concerned, I would like to stress this in particular, Terchoon and Weber, as far as the settlement is concerned, are provided for in the regulation establishing specific protection areas, that for them automatic, for all settlements above 50 or how many inhabitants, there will automatically not be a comprehensive assessment of the adoption of plans. So for an area that has already been declared wally or, sorry, as a settlement area. Automated as if it would not be in Nature, as if it would not be; except for one endangered animal species, these are the sinks. We have to go there because bats are tied to buildings. We can't avoid that. So that I hope that we will be able to explain that this is no fun, that it is, after all, also for the benefit of Slovenia, after all, this biodiversity, which is the largest in Europe in Slovenia besides Slovakia. We have the most individual plant and animal species in all of Europe, although we are a small country because we are at the intersection of three climate zones and because some areas in Slovenia have been or are still so seemingly intact. Of course, you also have to understand that we are trying - not to accuse us of trying to block the development of certain areas or something like that - we are trying to compromise, too, we have fundamentalists, if I may say so, around the house and in the house, who, of course, are trying to make many more things a special protection area, but not just that; also for a protected area that has a special regime, because, once again, I stress, the regime does not have only guidance. Well, and of course we are trying to do something that is as good as possible for the development potential of the local environment and, on the other hand, for the preservation of biodiversity as the European Union tells us and as it is good for us in the end. Biodiversity is not a burden; it can also be a wealth, although of course it carries a certain care with it. However, as far as finance is concerned, Europe and the state budget do not have any specific income or similar income for these areas and the agri-environment programmes are specifically targeted at specific protection areas. Let me give you a brief comparison. The water security areas of the country are being declared, and somehow this seems to all Members of Parliament in itself to be a matter of course. The government's declaring them. And by proclaiming them, it seems in itself to everyone that it has a regime. Water protection areas have a regime. There are certain things that have been banned, which have already been done. The special protection area within the meaning of the Nature Conservation Act has no regime to prohibit anything that is happening there at this moment. It has only guidelines for possible new activities. So I hope that this communication will also help us to clarify possible misunderstandings that bring bad will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you very much. He's replicating my buddy Tarchoon for naming me. With my example, I just wanted to illustrate that Natura 2000 is not only fun, as some say, and a limiting factor, but it can also be a factor of development. In fact, energy lobbying in this particular case, in the case of the Idrijca River, has rejected development for decades. The inhabitants of this valley were not even allowed to repair their homes, which lay directly by the river itself. This project even anticipated to be wiped out from the surface of the Slovenian face of three villages, moved 160 farms and 700 inhabitants. Well, ecological movements in the second half of the 1980s achieved that in 1989 this project was withdrawn from the written part of the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia, and then in this national council in 1999 we achieved that this project was also withdrawn from cartographic work, and Natura 2000 will now achieve that this development of this valley will be released. In fact, it will be possible to develop, because it will cut down on poultry that are once again very, very large to the energy lobby after ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Now I don't see anyone else who wants to discuss it. So I can conclude the debate. Can I? I therefore conclude the debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. And I'm opening a debate on 27. I'm sorry. We have an emergency. And we are moving on to a vote on the amendment of Members, with the first-signed Mr Auschwitz to Article 5. Can we vote? We're voting. I don't think we've been paying attention enough. There's enough of us in the hall. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 5. We're voting! [[44 present.]] Unfortunately, the second vote was not successful, so I am adjourning the meeting in accordance with the rules of procedure for 10 minutes. At 12.20, we will vote on the amendment for the third time. At 12 o'clock. 20 on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u76	Dear Members and Members! I ask you to take your seats, because for the third time we will vote on the amendment of Members with first-signed Jožet Ašić by Article 5, as I announced, at 12:20. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 5 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the four coalition groups to Article 27. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that in the second reading, the assembly adopted amendments to Articles 5 and 27 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. I predict that we want to table amendments to these open articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u78	How much time do you need to prepare an amendment? Then shall we proceed with the point when the amendment is ready and on the bench?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u79	Given the complexity of the material, I propose that this law continue to be discussed on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you very much. So, on Tuesday after the end of the last item of the agenda, we will continue with the suspension of the third reading of the 27th item of the agenda. I thank the Minister, representative and representative of the Ministry very much for their cooperation! We're moving to 28. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTATIONS OF THE FITOFARMATIONAL FUNDS LAW, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. Between us, I very much welcome the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, Dr Vidi Čadonic Špelič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u81	Dear Members and honourable Members, good afternoon! The Plant Safety Act was already adopted by the National Assembly in January 2001, but unfortunately it was not yet possible to fully harmonise this law with the legal order in force. In the European Union, this area is governed by two directives, and we are now coming before you with amendments to this law so that these two directives can be fully implemented. On the other hand, it must be said that one of the reasons for the adoption of this law is also that the definition of transport needs to be changed, because by coming to the European Union it means exports and imports to third countries only because we become part of the European market. We will also comply with certain other laws, such as the Chemical Act. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Agriculture, I propose that the National Assembly adopt this amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. Please let the chairman of the committee speak to us, mag. Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Our committee considered this law at its 26th emergency meeting as a parent working body, and it is a matter of final harmonisation of the law with European legislation and with the chemicals law. In addition to the members and members of the Committee, representatives of the agri-agricultural chamber and the legislative and legal service also participated in the meeting. In the process of second reading, we accepted the proposed articles of the seven amendments, which we then introduced into the amended proposal of the law. So I think that there are all the conditions that we can make decisions about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I invite Mr Alojs Sok to present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u85	Can we be here because I can see that we are acting differently from a different group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u86	I always suggest that the leader of the parliamentary groups, as we give them the opportunity- I propose, but it is a matter for each individual to decide. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representatives of the Ministry. I propose otherwise; I propose that we deal with a single criterion and that the leaders or on behalf of the parliamentary groups then all turn to Parliament here, but not one from the bench, and one from the speaker here, and please take this into account. As far as this marriage is concerned. Applicants say that this plant protection products law is intended to comply with the European legal order, but I will focus on only one article, Article 6, which states: "The plant protection products for which the registration decision provides for sale in specialised stores with plant protection products may only be sold to a user who submits valid evidence of compliance with the conditions of education or professional competence in accordance with Article 9 of this Act." I must say that the European Directive does not require that of us. In the law in force so far, professional competence is prescribed only for legal and natural persons engaged in agricultural activities and marketed by producers, it is said that those who produce agricultural products for the market must already have received education from the use of plant protection products and therefore also an appropriate authorisation, certificate. According to the proposal made by this Act, Article 6, all farmers, fruit growers, growers, gardeners and other users of plant protection products will also have to carry out the education carried out by the phytosanitary administration and, as we have heard, the agricultural and forestry chamber by the end of 2005. This means that in our law we have prescribed something more than the EU Directive in this area. What effect this will have on the use of plant protection products, the law's proponents cannot say, because they did not know how much is in transport today, in the use of these resources by those who engage in agricultural activities as an activity where they produce for the market, and how many of these resources are used by small users, such as these small fruit growers, vineyard growers and people who, for example, deal with gardening for their own needs. I don't think this is a good solution. Why it is advocated by the agri-agricultural chamber, I do not know exactly, probably because they also implement part of the programme in this area and, of course, they are paid. Such a solution is also advocated, as we have heard, by producers of plant protection products, and they are, of course, defending this because these smaller users of these resources will be able to use these funds in the future, but will be available in a smaller, minimum package. This means that if someone needs 1 kilogram of plant protection products and does not have the necessary authorisation for this use, they will not be able to buy one kilogram in the store, but they will be able to buy 10 decagrams 10 times. So, such a solution to my mind does nothing to contribute to a reduced use, but it only means that we have essentially inspired the matter. I am even more surprised that the ministry lady who proposes this explained that - I am reading the law as it is written, and she says: "We have no intention of educating gardeners, nor small users. Small users can agree with a big neighbor, a farmer, to bury that vineyard at the same time." In short, they have no intention of educating small users, but of course it is to conclude what is the proposal for proposals. I don't know if the proponents know what these things look like in practice, but I don't think they would, because if they did, they wouldn't make those kinds of rules. Let me get this straight. We have written in this directive, which we need to introduce into this plant protection law, much more than the EU requires us to do, and thus, of course, we will cause problems to many users in the Republic of Slovenia, and nothing will help to improve the situation in this area. This is the opinion of New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. A respected choir! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the plant protection products law. We will support it because it is European because it is a matter of compliance with two European directives. At this point, however, I would also like to touch and point out our position on the disputed Article 6, which has also received the most attention in the debate on the working body. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that such an agricultural policy must be implemented and managed where the care of the environment and healthy food in the first place will be the red thread of the agricultural policy. For this reason, I will say that we have not, after all, opposed the amendment and supported the article in the text of the basic text or supported the solution that is here and which provides that for those plant protection products for which the decision provides - and is determined on the basis of the content of active substances that could harm the environment and affect healthy nutrition - that these products are sold in specialised stores with plant protection products and only to the user who is professionally qualified for the use of such products. I think that this has set a good point and that it contributes to the basic objective that I have already stated at the outset, that is to the environment and to the care of safe food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Master Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Just for a little while. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposed law. We see it in this light of environmental protection and the protection of healthy food. These dilemmas, which are related to articles 6 and 7 of the Act, are seen in the fact that these dilemmas will be definitively resolved in sub-legislative acts. After all, education for those using plant protection products is already under the current law, especially when they are engaged in professional activities. As for amateur activities, we talked about gardeners; in the future, they will receive plant protection products in order to do so under professional supervision in the amount they will need for their activities. That is how great progress has been made in this context. I think that such a solution is good and the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club will be presented to us by Mr Geza Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. We will support the law in the parliamentary group. We can understand from the explanation that it is a matter of definitive compliance with the two Council Directives. This is the area of harmonisation of definitions and inclusion in the system of evaluation of active substances in the European Commission. In short, it is a professional law in which it is difficult to change anything thoroughly. We have also dealt with chapters that talk about the sale of plant protection products and the skills of users, where there may be some confusion over a period of time. However, in view of the changes adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and the transitional period defined in the law, we estimate that it is possible to implement the law after that period. In short, for these reasons, we will support the law and its changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič is also a nobleman who will present to us the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u95	Have a nice, good day! This law is prepared as well as you manage Lipica. More or less, this law was prepared by the same people, who so well manage Lipica. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Plant Safety Act did not achieve what it should have achieved. Pesticides, insecticides, artificial fertilisers shall be used long and porous, without any restrictions. The environment is poisoned, food is poisoned, human beings are poisoned, and I have the feeling that in the work of this proposal, a large group of multinationals from the production of plant protection products have been involved in the production of plant protection products that have abused all the way down to the point of continuing to swallow poisoned water, to eat poisoned plants and, if possible, to the hormones of drunk animals. The amendment of the plant protection law is so important that it should also be given to the general public or to the professional interested public, and you did not wish to do so. The instrument of rapid procedures, to which we have also witnessed the adoption of the old plant protection law, can be understood as intentional exclusion of the public. We believe that public debate should also be organised to the same extent as public debate in the law on genetically modified organisms in the case of amendments and additions to the plant protection product law. It should be noted that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has a consultative body, an interdepartmental committee for the safe management of chemicals, which in this case should consider any changes to the plant protection law and, as is known, has not addressed it. It's all kind of under the table and on the side. It appears that it is a very successful lobbying of an agrochemical lobby, which, as we are sure, is home to multinationals in the Slovenian National Party, who care little about human health and environmental protection. I do not think it is necessary to stress the problem of pesticides in groundwater, which is certainly attributed to the non-professional work of the Office of Chemicals and Phytosanitary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Both committees that decide on pesticides both at the Ministry of Health and at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food have done nothing. If anyone wants to know if a reporter is interested, I hope so, they can call us because we have written evidence of this. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that it is imperative to stop the hiding of multinationals for the apparent authority of an individual who, despite the legislation, so decides. And before the debate itself, it should be asked why the smart changes, including on some sides of the proposed changes, had not been introduced in 2000 but have not been introduced even today. And interesting is one statement by Mrs Vide Čadonic Špelič, who said: "At the time of the preparation of the plant protection law in 2000, it was not possible to transfer to Slovenia the legal order of all calls for European legislation, and to the procedure for assessing active substances in plant protection products implemented by the European Commission and decided by all Member States at meetings of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health." In short, the law is bad, we will continue to eat poisoned food, drink poisoned water, but the voter of the coalition will of course adopt the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that neither the legislative service nor the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have informed me that the law would be inconsistent. That is why we will move to a full vote on the law. We're voting. [[36 Members present.]] The first vote was not successful. May I have your attention, please? Secondly, we vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. [[38 present.]] The second vote was not successful either. I'm sure there's enough of us in the hall. It is true that it is a long week behind us, but we have all decided to do the necessary procedures ahead of us today. I therefore ask the leaders of the groups of Members to agree with the Members and Members to do without delay what we have set ourselves for today. At 12.54, we will vote on the bill as a whole for the third time. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u97	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to the third vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. It's 42 votes against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We have eight more agenda items ahead of us, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, all the laws under the urgent procedure that require a non-vote, so I am adjourning the session for 45 minutes. At 1:40 a.m., we will continue because I think it is necessary to take a break for lunch, since then there are eight more rules with a simple vote. At 13.40 minutes, we will move on to the next item on the agenda, until then, the meeting will be adjourned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u98	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to 29. Agenda item - Defence proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Preventing Competition Restrictions, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy Matjaž Logar, to explain the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Anti-Limiting of Competition Act was adopted in 1999 and has fully transposed the acquis into the Slovenian legal order. However, in the meantime, for two reasons, due to the entry of new members into the EU, and in particular due to the relatively outdated procedural rules of the regulation governing cross-border integration, the regulation governing this area has been amended; this Regulation has been adopted by the European Commission. That Regulation shall, however, be directly applicable and directly applicable in accordance with the provisions of the European legal order. Because of the regulation itself or because of the application of the regulation of our acquis, there is no need to amend it. However, such a state or state of affairs, if this law had not been amended by an amendment before you, would have meant that there would have been a double procedure: the procedure for so-called cross-border effects would have been in force under that regulation and the procedure at home would have been in force as it is now enshrined in the law. With the amendment we propose, this procedure is uniform and we believe that we will avoid the duality of treatment and, last but not least, by unifying the procedure, we will ensure adequate greater understanding of the rules and related legal certainty. The proposal for amendments to this Act, with the exception of harmonisation of procedural amendments, does not contain any other substantive amendments. However, we have also used this amendment to harmonise the criminal provisions of the Act with the Act on Offences, which will enter into force on 1 January of the following year. The law has been dealt with in the home work bodies, and we therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt the amendment of the law as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you for further explanation of the bill. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body and prepared a written report, which you have in your files. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Dr. Joseph Bernik for the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Anti-Limiting of Competition Act was adopted five years ago, as it was said in June 1999. And the current law or amendments to this law are mainly due to the need to align ourselves with the European Union, which is, of course, very welcome and necessary. However, when a person looks at these changes, he sees that they are mainly technical changes and that the government has not worked hard enough to take into account the experience of the past five years and the experience of the Anti-competitive Office. It should be said that, according to the reports of this office, it is relatively, or in the opinion of this office, that the situation is improving with us, but we can only say that we received the 2001 report but not get the 2002 report. We all know that this area is extremely complicated, because following cases of illegal competition is very difficult, sometimes it is even some kind of pursuit of invisible and unsuspecting spirits and special sophisticated receptions are needed to deal with them. For 2001 says the Office's report that in Slovenia the level of competitive culture described as awareness of the need for competition is low, but is slowly rising. The reasons for this situation are attributed to the results of the past, such as the rest of the agreed economy of the closed market and state protectionism. In part, it is not knowing some basic categories, mixing concepts, such as competition and competitiveness. It follows that today it is very urgent for participants in various meetings, for education at assembly associations and, in particular, for entrepreneurs meeting within the framework of professional associations of the single industry itself. Of course, here we must not forget that the tendency, to change the situation with this monopoly, is quite complicated and man, when looking at various cases also outside Slovenia, sees that some countries have gone through a very traumatic situation. Let's say this happened in Argentina and so on. I could say that we have quite a situation. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] one understands the situation from these reports, such as, or those that should still have them. [[...]] I would also like the government to comment on the current situation when proposing this law. As for all these proposals that have been made, I can only say that they are - I hope - following the proposaler's confirmation in accordance with European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you. Branko Kelemina has the floor for the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Our Slovenian Democratic Party Group will not oppose this bill. We have always been in favour of Slovenia joining the European Community as soon as possible and thus undermining all the fences of monopolies that have been with us and are still present. Healthy competition is certainly expected and desirable. But the only thing we would say about this amendment is that it is a modest change. It could have happened a little earlier because we know that these documents by the European Community are already known throughout 2003, and it would have been a little earlier, not just now, before Slovenia's entry into the European Community, that these changes are being implemented because there is still some additional pressure both on Members, on the National Assembly and on all institutions that are already sufficiently burdened by other important preparations for entry. Thank God we also have a legislative and legal service, which in due time alerts us to all the shortcomings and inconsistencies of the proposed regulations with our legal order and also with regard to logistics itself. In short, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u104	Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. The nature of the amendments and the addition of the anti-competitive law is very similar or similar to that of the next four items of the agenda for this session, namely points 30 and 31, 32 and 33, namely, more or less harmonisation only - or final harmonisation - only on the basis of our legal order with the legal order of the European Union or, rather, the elimination of certain non-compliances with the provisions of the individual law for European Union directives. These directives have not been known since yesterday, so the government should or should even come with a number of laws that are now being put before the national assembly just before the beginning - it could have come into the procedure earlier. On the other hand, more or less all these laws again comply with the adopted law on offences and, consequently, as a result of the adoption or amendment of certain substantive provisions, these laws should also be amended in the transitional provisions in the sense that certain provisions and also certain rules should cease to apply in the context of this European legislation. Thus, the position of the parliamentary group in all these six laws is the same: there is little that can be changed or added to the proposed text or written otherwise or better, so we will support all these laws, and this is true for all these six bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you very much. It's already a prognosis. Mag. Braž Kavčič will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u107	Your Honor! In this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of competition, perhaps the most important or most important innovations brought by this law in the field of procedures. Otherwise, this law goes also within the framework of laws where we align Slovenia's legal order with European law, which is a condition for fulfilling the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia arising from the European Agreement and from the obligations that Slovenia has as a member of the European Union. So with these developments in the field of procedures, we come to a single procedure, both for internal relations and in cases of cross-border relations, thus achieving uniformity of procedure and ensuring the principle of legal certainty. It also introduces amendments to criminal provisions due to the amended Act on Offences. The Anti-Limiting of Competition Act adopted in 1999, i.e. before the reform of competition law in the European Union, follows the principles of Regulation 17/62. Among other things, it also provides for the issue of an individual exemption and a negative test. The restrictive agreement shall otherwise be prohibited and consequently null and void. Regulation 1/2003 repeals such a system at the level of Article 81 and Article 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, and it is therefore necessary to harmonise national legislation. Indeed, EU rules apply only in the case of infringements of Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. Therefore, only when an agreement or abuse of a dominant position has an impact on trade between Member States. However, agreements or practices which have no such cross-border or cross-border impact shall be subject to national legislation. This law's proposal for individual exceptions and the negative result is lifted. Further objectives of the law are to align certain types of decisions of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition with the decisions provided for in Regulation 1/2003. We have also included the introduction or acceptance of commitments in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to prevent the illegality of agreements. It seemed important to us that the thresholds in Article 1 were raised to determine the limits of low importance to 10% of the market share in the case of horizontal agreements and 15% of the market share in the case of vertical agreements. However, other proposed changes are without prejudice to the regulation of concentrations. On the basis of all that has been said, the proposed law will be supported in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you. And the position of the Slovenian National Party. Sasha Peca has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u109	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we can say with certainty that the reasons for the adoption of the law in their content do not bring about any global drastic changes in that area. We have already proposed a law with the same title in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Competition. We have tried to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to this respected National Assembly in order to allow, through the legal content or standard, where national interest, a certain form of concentration or a certain form of market control would require it. According to our assessment, of course, it would make sense for the National Assembly, when we proposed this idea, to win this idea for its own and to legislate it in a legal order. The fact is that the law before us today does not follow this mother or the aspirations of the Slovenian National Party. And my purpose today is not to warm things up and reopen debates on national interest, what would make sense, what kind of concentration or control or simply say how the state could help certain economic operators who would meet on a given day in the new market. However, I would like to refer to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to think, perhaps in the same way as before, only to comply with new standards and new assumptions for action on the common so-called global market of the European Union. If, a year or two ago, when we proposed a law in the Slovenian National Party, the Government's explanation was at least partially understandable, since concentration or control of the situation within the borders of the Republic of Slovenia would put other related companies dealing with similar matter in an uncompetitive position, we estimate that this moment of course of 1.5 is no longer up to date. According to our assessment, just before entering the European Union, that is to say, before entering a new market, it would be reasonable to allow the country to also allow, when national interest is spoken of, a stronger concentration, concentration than we proposed in the model at the time, a model of the anti-competitive law. According to our assessment, the country has, of course, made many shortcomings or many mistakes during the whole period of adapting domestic legislation to European legislation. According to my assessment, this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should give priority to adapting and establishing a quality regime, i.e. to the highest degree of competitiveness, adaptability and, most importantly, the ability to exist and further develop into an economic area. Of course, we have almost equally integrated Slovenia in the policy area. However, in the area of the economy, in the area of the ability or facilitating the competitive position of Slovenian companies in the new common market, which we can almost also call a domestic market, we have not done so. From the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the idea of the Slovenian National Party at this time I do not even want to hear the answer because I know what the answer will be. I would, however, like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia itself to give this National Assembly a law that would have an effect on itself, namely, on allowing the concentration of companies, which would, of course, allow for larger, stronger Slovenian-owned enterprises, which could not only succeed in the new European market, but also create or co-create a new European market. This is the purpose of the Slovenian National Party. This proposal, as proposed today by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for admission, which is based on certain decisions of the Constitutional Court and directives of the European Union, of course we will not object. If we objected to that law, we would not have achieved anything. It is just a copy of the European Union's legislation, but unfortunately it will not have the effects that the government estimates it will have. The effects on the prevention of competition would, of course, have the content of the law, as proposed in the Slovenian National Party. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] More than calling again for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consider creating domestic companies that will be able to compete in the new market. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. Before we go to the decision-making process, I call on all Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues to come to the grand hall because we will move on to the decision-making process. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is inconsistent. We'll move on to a decision on the bill. Please check your voting devices. I fully put the bill to the vote. We're voting. [[43 present.]] We were not successful in the first vote, so we will repeat the vote. We'll vote next time. I see there's enough of us in the hall. May I have your attention, please? We'll vote next time. There are 49 of us present, 45 of us voted in favour of the law, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PRODUCTS AND THE RECOGNITION OF CONFORMITY, Urgent PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, Mr Matjaž Logar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you. The existing law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment covers an area [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u112	Mr. Logar, just a moment. There are also no amendments to this law, so we will proceed immediately after the views of the parliamentary groups. Please don't leave the hall. Thank you. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u113	Thank you. Thus, the existing law, adopted in 1999, provided a legal basis for the transposition of directives of the European Union, saying that there is a harmonised part of the acquis in cases where we do not have sectoral legislation in the Republic of Slovenia. After five years of harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Union, it has been shown that we need an appropriate legal basis for those parts of the rules for which the European Union does not require harmonisation, but must be transposed either because of the application of the principles of the Accession Treaty, in particular the principle of mutual recognition and implementation of the provisions of Articles 28 to 30 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, or the part which the European Union does not cover and leaves a further regulation to the Member States within their own competence, but is necessary for Directives to be fully transposed and implemented. In this case, in particular, in the area of market upheaval, we used this opportunity and aligned the legal text with the provisions of the Offences Act, which will enter into force with 1.1.2005. It is precisely because of the fact that these proposed amendments will enable us to fully implement and implement Articles 28 to 30 of the Treaty of the European Union that we propose to the national assembly to adopt the law in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The Committee on the Economy, as its mother's working body, addressed the draft law and prepared the report you have in your files. We will move on to the views of the parliamentary groups to the draft law. I give the word "magic." Janez Drobnič for the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Welcome government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. As with the rest of these European laws, it is also considered that it could have been submitted earlier, so it could have been applied earlier. It is a matter of some things, certain provisions are limited because they relate to - because the law is therefore being enforced in the sense of the entire European Community or of the European Union. This would certainly benefit our legal order, as well as our legal practice in terms of the enforcement of technical standards and the protection of public interest in products and goods in transport and the withdrawal of goods from transport. This change, which is, gives greater powers to inspectors, which, I think, is also right to ensure quite a public interest, security and human health. Responsibility, compliance with technical regulations is more broadly and clearly transferred to the manufacturer, i.e. the manufacturer is responsible for the safety and health of humans in full if it has been produced within the European Union and, to the extent that the goods are distributed by the importer, the importer and the distributor are responsible for the products in terms of the public interest of safety and human health. We believe that it is also a good solution to the mutual recognition of the requirements for this security to be guaranteed in a way of reciprocity, i.e. if the other country equally ensures public interest at the same level, so that an international mutual clause applies. This should prevent and limit the free movement of goods or products, which, of course, our companies or undertakings operating or operating in our territory will be able to do so. The text is relatively demanding. We have our own comments that the translation of these directives could be clearer, more understandable to Slovenian people. Obviously there was no time for this, although the directive, which is the basis for the harmonisation of this law, was adopted, the other rules were adopted before 1998 and could certainly be applied much earlier to all these standards, which are now being adopted on the door just before 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you very much. He's got Branko Kelemin's word. He's quitting. Master Blaž Kavčič for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u117	In the LDS, we see the aim of this proposal of law, in particular, to provide a legal basis for the issue of an unharmonised part of the rules, which is also necessary for certain Directives, because part of the implementation has been provided for by harmonised legislation to be left to individual Member States which, of course, regulate this area in their own way, but in accordance with the fundamental principle of mutual recognition. There are, of course, fundamental changes compared to the previous situation. It should be borne in mind that the legal basis is also necessary for the part of legislation where the European community does not yet have uniform legislation. It is important that, by means of this proposal, the responsibility for the conformity of the product with the technical regulations is effectively transferred and clearly identified to the manufacturer of the product, in the event that he is established in the European Community, or an importer in the European Community, or to that distributor who made the first level of distribution in the territory, in our case of the Republic of Slovenia. It is important that the law also introduces a clause on mutual recognition of requirements for non-harmonised products. In addition, it introduces a supplement at the level of penalties which comply with the new General Product Safety Act and the Offences Act, which will apply on 1 January 2005. We will therefore support the proposed law in the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. The word is Sasha Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u119	Your Honors are here! The credibility of the executive branch or of the legislative branch of power is assessed by our assessment, that is, by the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to understand also through the ability to respond or fully adapt European legislation to Slovenian legislation, on the other hand, and of course, what is also important, according to our assessment, in that capacity of time. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we estimate that it is still important that all those to whom we restrict or determine individual rights or duties under Slovenian law prepare for this in due time. According to our assessment, of course, we will support the law, but we regret that it did not happen earlier, by allowing all those who are entitled or bound by this law to prepare themselves, of course, to implement this law. On the other hand, the principled or general classification of nomotechnicians, which refers to a certain time frame in the adoption of regulations, is also useful for our words. In general, the law itself is a confirmation, so we will also support the proposal for a law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you. These were the views of the Group of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments to the third reading of amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature and the government have not informed me that the law is inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. Please, for your attention, we will vote on the law. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 42 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act - an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Matjaž Logar, to submit the initial supplementary submission.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u121	The current Industrial Property Act in Article 131 lays down the tasks and conditions for representation in the procedure for granting or registering industrial property rights to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, Courts and Other State Authorities. The conditions for entry into the register of representatives include residence and residence in the Republic of Slovenia, citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and university education obtained in the Republic of Slovenia. If such conditions were to apply even after the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, this would be in particular a violation of Articles 39, 43 and 49 of the Treaty establishing the European Communities. Article 39 eliminates differences on the basis of nationality in relation to employment, payment and other working conditions. Article 43 removes restrictions on the right of establishment. Article 49, however, requires the abolition of restrictions on the freedom to provide services to nationals of the Member States. The proposed amendment will bring the provisions of Article 131 of the Law laying down the conditions for representation into line with the Treaty establishing the European Community. In addition, I should say that there have already been disputes before the Court of Justice of the European Communities on this subject and that the Member States have lost them. For all these reasons, we propose to the National Assembly the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u122	The draft law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. He's prepared a written report that you have in your file. They shall follow the views of the Group of Members, which shall be presented by individual representatives. The position of Nova Slovenije will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u123	The law is short and relates only to harmonising our internal regulation with the EU regarding patent agents and representatives for models and brands and prohibiting discrimination in relation to residence. As has already been said, some disputes persist because countries want to regulate this in their own way and to ensure preferential positions for their own representatives in their home countries. Of course, it is a wish, because there is reciprocity in the EU, it is right to stick to it. However, it is necessary to find all those things which, however, ensure that the Slovenian state and Slovenian national remain unscrupulous. All possible institutes are also emerging, i.e. patent representatives with a professional examination for a patent representative, perhaps accompanied by another chamber, one new caste, which will then provide itself with a rich payment through certain tariffs. Just like it was done with a notariat and a lot of other people. I do not mean to say that I would underestimate the work of a notariat or similar institutions, but the problem is that there are some representatives who are officially appointed who cannot go through them. When the problem of responsibility arises, however, all of them referred to the citizen or to the one who would like to enforce his patent or his model or brand. You had to be settled in our country. If, according to value, you charge administrative costs, then you should also be responsible to a certain extent for the damage caused if you have made a mistake. Unfortunately, this is not the case with us, and these are protected as nomadic bears, or even more so, since recently the nomadic bears are apparently no longer so protected. Like the Notariat, it's the Big Guy and a lot of other people. In short, enormous amounts to be charged by someone. This should be considered in our country when various institutions appear as interfaces in registering this industrial property and similar things. Of course, there is no objection to the law, because it is harmonisation, harmonisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mag. Blaž Kavčič, position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u125	The current regime is such that the conditions for entry into the register of representatives include residence and residence in the Republic of Slovenia, citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and university education obtained in the Republic of Slovenia. If such three conditions were to continue to apply in our legislation, this would constitute a violation of Article 39, Article 43 and Article 49 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. The proposed amendment therefore amends the provisions of Article 131 of the Law laying down the conditions for representation before the Office, the Court and other national authorities. These conditions are thus in line with the Treaty establishing the European Community. The second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 131 therefore delete the conditions for representation, such as residence in the Republic of Slovenia, residence in the Republic of Slovenia, citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and the address obtained by the University Graduate Lawyer in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments described are necessary to comply with European Union legislation, so we will support them in the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Sasha Roken has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u127	Two concepts were understood both in the explanation of the bill's proposal and in the explanation of the position of individual parliamentary groups. The first is called reciprocity and the second single legislation within the framework of the members of the European Union. Let me, of course, point out from this place that there is no reciprocity. Reciprocality in the sense that you show it is, of course, just coloring or something in this sense. In the case of non-retroactivity within the European legal order, let me mention those cases where the Republic of Slovenia is under the same tactics as today, that this is something self-evident, necessary and that Slovenia must do so, I will only mention three cases. For the first time, this is a labour market that we all know about together, but unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not want to admit that there is no reciprocity. Slovenia does not have these rights as they should be for the common labour policy. Secondly, there is a real estate market where we know that under the same pretext you have changed even the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the case of property ownership, even though individual Member States of the European Union do not have such constitutional arrangements. And, of course, the third case, the protection legislation for Slovenian companies, where, above all, the Member States that come from German law have a regulated relationship of protection legislation, of course not. All of this you have accepted under the pretext of reciprocity or some false principle of the uniformity of European Union law. However, as regards this proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act, I must say that in spite of the beautiful and big words both by the proponent and the speakers before me, we only see that by reducing the conditions or changing the conditions for representation in our country, i.e. by amending Article 131, it is likely that there will be less transparent functioning of such bodies or areas of representation. According to our assessment, by deleting these provisions of the law, regardless of what you said was the basis for this reciprocity or the uniformity of the legal rules in accordance with the European Union, we will give the National Party the brunt of transparency in particular. Because the fact is that the transparency deficit in Slovenian society is so great that we cannot afford to increase it any longer, and thus the lack of transparency is also in this norm. Therefore, we will not support the bill within the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u128	You've heard the views of the Group of Members. As the parent working body of the second hearing did not accept any amendments, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 40 votes in favour of the law, 3 votes in favour. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 32. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law on the export control of goods for dual use, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Minister of Economy, Dr. Tei Petrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u129	Dear Members and Members, honourable President, a nice greeting to you all! By entering the European Union, Slovenia will become part of the common market in which the common export rules apply as part of the European Union's common trade policy. These common export rules are based on the common control of the export of dual-use goods regulated by Council Regulation No 1334/2000 establishing a Community regime for the control of the export of goods and dual-use technology. Since this Regulation applies directly to the Member States, its transposition into national law is not necessary. In national rules, however, it is necessary to regulate all the issues which this regulation regulates and imposes upon Member States to regulate or authorize them to regulate certain issues more precisely in their rules. The proposed law thus regulates the authorisation procedures, the possibility of supplementing the list of dual-use goods, the obligation to obtain a dual-use export obligation not covered by the list but intended or could be used for mass destruction production weapons. The law also regulates issues that need to be settled at national level in accordance with the Council Regulation and the Council's joint action. For example, the designation of the authority responsible for issuing licences for the export of dual-use goods, sanctioning, control over the provision of technical assistance in connection with dual-use goods. In previous provisions, the law now repeals the applicable law on the export of dual-use goods, which does not conform to the conditions of Slovenia's membership in the European Union, and the law on external trade, which will no longer be necessary after Slovenia enters the European Union. The proposal for a law on the control of the export of dual-use goods was addressed by the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly and, on the basis of comments from the legislative and legal services and proposals from members of the National Assembly, adopted amendments which are included in the amended bill and contribute to greater clarity of the law. Members and Members of Parliament, I propose that you adopt the draft law after final consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you for further explanation of the bill. It has already been said that the Committee on the Economy, as the parent body of the labour force, has considered the law. You've received the report and it's in your files. That is why I am moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Janez Drobnič will be the first to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u131	Nicely greeted. The bill aims to control international traffic, i.e. exports of dual-use goods. This is about products, goods, raw materials, technologies, software, which in addition to normal civilian use can also be found for military use, especially for the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction, such as radiological, nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. During the Cold War, the West prevented the export of sensitive goods and technology to the countries of the Warsaw Pact. In the last ten years, especially following the action in New York on 11 September and Madrid, it is essential and essential to prevent the spread of dangerous substances and technologies to countries that are in any way linked to international terrorism. The enforcement and control of the proliferation of these weapons of mass destruction or killing is one of the first items of the international security policy of each serious country. International trade in these weapons flows from the Baltics, Belarus, Ukraine and other countries. We know that. This, of course, takes place on secret routes, but poses a serious threat to life and radiological pollution. Even more dangerous is the fact that some influential individuals in our country also have regular contacts with the dictators of these countries, who also provide them with trade routes to spread such substances, which are essential for the production of weapons. It's a friendly relationship. They make sales arrangements and create profits in a controversial way. This also gives legitimacy for such actions. This should be seriously considered by the State. This law does not have to wait for us to accept it just before 12 o'clock, because, regardless of whether we join the European Union, it is essential for us. Because it touches the threat to our national security, health and safety. The law is not enough to challenge, because it is about harmonising the rules that Europe has long regulated in its rules. It also complies with Slovenian standards. So there's no question of whether we're going to support the marriage, but how we're going to stick to it. And second, of course, how much at this rate that was caused right before May 1st, we made mistakes, not least in translating, so that we won't get a headache and we'll have to fix the law in two months. These are the greatest notes that can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party is vested in Branko Kelemin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has no comments on the content of the amendment to the Act on the Control of the Export of Dual-Use Goods, since it is in itself conditional on alignment with the EU acquis. We assess and realize that control over goods, exports of goods and imports of dual-use goods is still essential. And perhaps even in the current regime and generally under-supervised. However, somehow we cannot agree exactly that the whole series of laws, including those we are currently dealing with, during this very period, everyone in the emergency process, is also poorly prepared, quite much, and they need to be rectified in the urgent procedure of the National Assembly. We cannot understand why, just to say so, 5 minutes before 12, before entering the European Community, all these laws in the National Assembly. The starting points for this proposal are already known as we know it or as far as we have drawn from these documents, at least since 2000. Really? That's right. At least last autumn we could prepare this proposal and send it to the National Assembly without being showered with all these proposals. Lately, you yourself know that some 50 proposals by the government have been tabled in the procedure over the last two months or a half. That's unacceptable. And you have to wonder, of course, why this is happening. Certainly not without a reason. The political reasons behind this are certainly political options, because Members, in particular Members, the National Assembly, and also the Slovenian public, want to burden us with materials that are important to bring us into line with the EU acquis, so that we do not solve and deal with important internal issues that are very sensitive and unresolved. Our Slovenian Democratic Party Group will not oppose the proposal, but regrets that it is suddenly pouring out a national assembly with so many proposals, which are then difficult to explain effectively and reasonably and also accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Master Blaž Kavčič. Position of the LDS Member Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u135	Dearly noted, this somewhat sterile term "milk for double use" has sometimes been known to mean "purpose goods", of course, goods which can also be used for military purposes and, of course, this is an area that each Member State or non-member of the European Union has regulated. The proposed law on this goods is complementary to Council Regulation 1334/2000 and travels directly to its application. At the same time, this law also specifies the action taken by the Council in such a way as to regulate the provision of technical assistance outside the community. Thus, the basic objective of this law is to regulate matters for which Council Regulation 1334/2000 instructs Member States to regulate them. It is, therefore, a matter of identifying the authorities responsible for deciding on applications as procedural rules for sanctioning infringements, or of questions where, under certain conditions, the Community allows for more detailed regulation by the Member States. For example, the adoption of measures such as the identification of additional goods subject to export control, the possibility of issuing a global permit, the restriction of the transfer of individual sensitive goods within the Community. We will support the law at the LDS House of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you very much. And the position of the Slovenian National Party. Sasha Peca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u137	The speaker or two before me highlighted the dilemma of the importance of individual laws, especially the content of individual laws. It is true that it would be worth considering the content, i.e. it would be possible to see whether the law or the harmonisation of the acquis would also have positive consequences for domestic legislation or for the home country, or whether this law is simply because it will show in the figures of the adjustment of the European Union the statistics on how the Slovenians have been correctly completed, i.e. all areas. I estimate that they think correctly, or in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, those who claim that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is, on the day before 1.5.2004, trying to give this national assembly a bowing gift with a large number of laws. However, it is also true that it is likely that he is trying to do so solely in order not to leave the legislative branches of power in order to meet those laws that would be necessary especially for the development of the local population. However, when we talk about this law, at least according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, it is necessary to say that it is neither the content nor the content of the law. It's basically just harmonisation. Some in front of me have also identified arms control as one of the areas of export. It is from this very city that I warn and the Slovenian government that I may also ask or more stress on the issue of duality. Whenever there is talk of arms, whether it is exports, imports or only transport through our country, we limit the content through this and similar acts. At any time, however, any military liaison or any other country that would like us very much, i.e. the United States, will invite us to transport, and the whole Slovenian government will say, of course, please, we will not even inform the Slovenian public. What purpose does it have to make, then, is the content of what I say, such legislation that when we speak in a partial way and at the request of a particular military organisation or of another country, the government, through all legislation, Slovenian legislation, and past the stopped legal practice, will generously open the way of Slovenia or the weapon of mass realization right across our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We'll discuss it on the basis of the material you got on the bench. These are two amendments - the amendment to the title of Chapter III and the amendment to Article 13. I am putting to the debate the first amendment, which is the amendment to chapter three. It was submitted to the UK Group and to the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm putting an amendment to the vote. May I have your attention, we'll vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 38 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment to Article 13 of the LDS Club and the United Nations Group of Members. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 13 and the amendment to Article 13. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 40 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to the title of Chapter 3 and the amendment to Article 13 of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article or to the title of the chapter? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not declared that the law would not have been harmonised due to the amendments adopted. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 33. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVENUE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GROWING WATERS LAW, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Minister of Economy, Dr Tei Petrin, for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u139	Dear Members and Members, Mr Vice President! We are coordinating the proposed amendments to the Mountain Guides Act with the acquis of the European Union. The Mountain Guides Act governs the profession of mountain guides, the conditions for accession to training, the training programme, the conditions for carrying out this profession, the conditions for the establishment and operation of schools for mountain guides and the state support for the training of mountain guides in the Republic of Slovenia. There are no provisions in the law in force relating to the definition of conditions for the work of foreign legal or natural persons, or the law contains certain provisions which, by entering the European Union, become discriminatory to nationals of the European Union. These are mainly two discriminatory conditions: the requirement for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and the requirement for permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Accordingly, the amendments to the Act remove discriminatory conditions for the exercise of mountain management activities and for the exercise of the profession of mountain guide. With regard to the provision of these services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, legal and natural persons from EU countries are aligned with legal and natural persons from the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and residence in the Republic of Slovenia are no longer required. For third countries, however, the law applies the principle of reciprocity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u140	Thank you very much for this complementary explanation. Positions of the parliamentary groups. I give my word to the New Slovenia Group, mag. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u141	This industrial adoption of laws is certainly not the right procedure and it is not the right way and it is easy for us to still have a headache. The Mountain Guides Act is aligned with EU rules because it is unacceptable to discriminate against countries, other EU members or nationals of other countries. This novel compares the rights of legal and natural persons. Nationality or permanent residence shall not be criteria for different treatment. Surely our mountain guides will not be most excited about these changes because they will gain competition. And we know well that our tradition of mountaineering is also very important in the identification of Slovenia, in the exercise of independence and independence. Here's the question. The law states "is in the public interest". The state of Austria has made it clear that this is a public service and in this regard it also grants a concession, which is much clearer. With this, she made a certain filter, which also works in the national interest. With us, however, we have just left open some general public interest. In the opinion of New Slovenia, this is not enough to ensure national interests. From all of this, we know that there must be no discrimination on a legal basis. Individual countries, however, prefer domestic knowledge, domestic things to make it easier to apply by means of sub-legislative acts in the framework of permissive legislation. They provide greater opportunities for nationals of the home country. That is why I am interested in how they think at the Ministry of Economy about the arrangements in Italy and Austria, when then they prefer Austria's national or Italy by means of sub-legislative acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I don't see Paul Rupar as the position of the group. Master Blaž Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u143	Your Honor! Our current regulation of the Mountain Guides Act in Article 5 lays down the conditions for entry into the directory of mountain guides. One of the conditions referred to in paragraph 4 is the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia and paragraph 5 for the entry of a mountain guide or mountain guide who is not a national of the Republic of Slovenia requires a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. The Treaty of Amsterdam clearly prohibits any discrimination on the basis of a criterion of nationality or residence in the provision of services. Our current and current solution so effectively interferes with the regulation of three fundamental freedoms or principles which, following the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, will also be binding on our country. This bill removes a discriminatory provision which, as a condition for the start of training, provided that the candidate must be a member of a mountain society or an alpinist club which is a member of the Mountain Link of Slovenia. However, a discriminatory provision has also been removed, requiring the entry into the directory of mountain guides of a permanent residence in Slovenia in Article 6. Because of the need to harmonise with the European Union, this proposal will be supported by the LDS in the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is inconsistent. We'll move on to a decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. Some of you didn't make it to the button in time. May I have your attention, please? We'll vote next time. There's enough of us in the hall. We'll vote next time. There are 51 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. We're moving to 34. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With us is Dr. Paule Gantar, Minister of Information Society, who will give the introduction to the law and we welcome him. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the postal service law. The reason for the amendment of the law adopted by the National Assembly about two years ago is, of course, clear. Following this adoption of the law, a new directive was adopted, namely Directive 2002/39 requiring a new adaptation or harmonisation with the European legal order.This adjustment is not particularly extensive but is important as it introduces additional liberalisation and certain transparency measures on the market at postal prices. Let me briefly state the most important changes. The volume of so-called reserved postal services, which are some kind of monopoly for that postal operator who is obliged to provide universal postal services, is decreasing. The so-called international mail has been removed from the reserved services and the burden and price limit for the determination of reserved services has also been changed. After that, some changes are made to the obligations of postal service providers. Those who do not provide reserved services may only be subject to those obligations relating to the essential requirements and liability in the event of loss, robbery, embezzlement or damage to the consignment. In addition to the criteria for the creation of universal postal services set out in the old directive, the new directive lays down some new rules for pricing and thus reinforces the provision of non-discrimination and transparency in price formation. It has been slightly altered as a last resort to control. In principle, it is considered that the supervision of the activities of the Ministry or government is carried out by the Mail, Telecommunications and Broadcasting Inspectorate, and by the Agency itself. The Agency may also be supervised by authorised personal agencies and must comply with the conditions laid down by the law governing inspection. Your Honor! Several amendments were tabled at the Committee on the Economy, which the Committee adopted and we agree with them. Amendments are mainly editorial in nature and improve the text of the law. In order not to make a special announcement, let me say that the government agrees with all the amendments tabled by the Committee. This also applies to the two amendments to Articles 24 and 29 tabled by the United Nations Group of Members, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and DeSUS. Finally, let me thank the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the members and members of the Committee on Good Cooperation in the Consideration of the Law. I recommend that you, Members of Parliament, adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you, Minister, for this supplementary explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body and produced a report that you have in your files. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Vojko Čeligoj will give his position to the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected" This law also governs one of the accession areas, the field of postal services, in accordance with the requirements of the accession arrangements and obligations which our country has adopted on its way to the European Union. With effect from 1 May, the Republic of Slovenia will be obliged to implement fully the acquis of the European Union, except in areas for which it has declared itself otherwise. There are no such exceptions to the field of postal services. It will have an order that will be uniform in all the countries of the European Union and the acceding countries. Any other regulation or maintenance of non-harmonised legislation will be considered a violation and will be sanctioned. For the reasons stated above, as well as the conclusion that this legal order brings a number of advantages, we support the decision in the DeSUS Group to treat the law in accordance with the urgent procedure. We believe that so far the organisation of mail and the quality of postal services is at an appropriate height. The basic postal service, known under the postal code "today delivered, tomorrow served", has been established in Slovenia for a number of years, including in the current 2002 postal legislation, which has already taken account of the adaptation to the European Union. The final adaptation of postal rules to the rules of the European Union will be regulated by the law that we have before us today. It removes inconsistencies in the areas of reserve services, obligations of postal service providers, the pricing of postal services that will be subsequently uniform for the whole European Union, and the control of the functioning and role of the Agency. This non-compliance is governed by the law in 41 articles. It breakdowns and defines concepts specific to postal business and defines criteria for a more modern approach to postal organisation. In the DeSUS Group, we were particularly interested in how the user of postal services is insured, how the supervision of business and possible criminal legislation is exercised, and how much resources are needed to carry out the new law or amendments required by the law under consideration. In particular, certain appropriations will be required by the end of 2004. We estimate that these chapters are also favourably laid down and that they are satisfactory. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic Law on Postal Services will be supported by the DeSUS Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Alojz Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Very briefly. The changes brought by the law seem positive to us, and this time we will heed the Minister's advice to support the law. We expect the Minister to engage in some other areas. One was the return on investment for the development of telephony in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Branko Kelemin - cancels. Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Also in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we support that law, because it truly follows the directives and clearly defines in particular postal shipments in international postal transport. So far, it has been legal to include newspapers, books and packages as well as not just correspondence or mail belonging to correspondence. It is necessary to harmonise this in the light of a very clear directive. And since the law follows these objectives, we will also support these provisions. We are also interested in the solution to the Agency's funding. This will generate funds from payments paid by postal service providers, and it is also one of the solutions that is obviously possible within our legislation, so we believe that the law is well-prepared and, of course, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mag. Blaž Kavčič has the floor for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u153	The law speaks of services. Personally, I am very pleased that in this Parliament, as well as the wider part of Slovenia, this change appears to have occurred, that there is not so much talk about services, because in the field of telecommunications and mail, this old term of service has been maintained for decades. We're talking about services. Postal services are in many ways similar to telecommunications services, especially in this distribution to universal and reserved services. This law, or amendment, brings about what is most important, the change in the volume of reserved services reduces. Therefore, it gradually reduces the volume of these services, which means that the volume of reserved postal services is limited only to the transfer of mail, correspondence in internal transport and to the country of arrival of postal correspondence in international postal transport. The novelty also brings new criteria for the pricing of postal services. It shall specify the definition and division of control powers between the telecommunications, broadcasting and mail agencies and inspectors. In this case, the mail inspector. It follows from this amendment of the law that the Agency shall control those areas originating in the Directives while the competent inspectors are responsible for the control of other areas. It is also important in the way in which the Agency is financed that, following the adoption of the law, the Agency will have to implement a stand-alone method of financing with extra-budgetary resources at the end of 2004. We will support the bill at the LDS Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much. These were the views of the parliamentary groups. We're moving to second reading. This is for discussion on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We will conduct the discussion on the basis of two, namely the two amendments to Article 24 and Article 29 of the LDS Member Club, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats and the DeSUS Group of Members, of 26.3. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the three parliamentary groups mentioned above. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 24. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 50 of us present. There were 40 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. I turn to the debate and decision on Article 29 and the amendment of the same groups of Members to Article 29. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 29. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 48 of us here. 38 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] The amendment received support. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 24 and 29 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] Since there are no proposals for amendments, we are moving on to the third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that the legislature and the government have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We're voting on the law. There are 50 of us present. 48 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. We're moving on to 35. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PAYMENT TRAVEL LAW, REQUIRED PROCEDURE The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation of the law. Master Sibil Svilan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The main purpose of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments is to comply with the acquis of the European Union in this area of the financial system. This is mainly the case with the two Directives, the Cross-border Transfer Directive and the Directive on the Finality of Settlements in Payments and Securities Settlement Systems. In addition, the draft law also eliminates some of the uncertainties or shortcomings that have been shown in the implementation of the existing Law on Payments in Practice or that have been highlighted in the reform of payment transport in Slovenia in recent years and have been amended on the basis of other laws that have been adopted recently. Let me briefly outline the main solutions to the new bill, which will, on the one hand, facilitate the operation of cross-border payment transport and, on the other hand, provide greater security for participants in this transport, particularly for the uneducated and weaker. The current Law on Payments did not regulate cross-border payments, so the proposal for a law in accordance with the Directive on Cross-border Transfers regulates cross-border payments of lower value. These are payments within the Member States of the European Union up to EUR 50,000 and, according to the proposal of the law, these payments are generally subject to the same rules as the rest, but the specificities are regulated in the specific section on cross-border payments and apply only to these payments. Furthermore, given that the applicable law governs only the liability of payment service providers, it is the employer, and not the liability of payment service providers to the payee, the Directive, which gives greater protection to the weaker party, complements certain legal provisions governing the liability of payment service providers. The taxpayer and the reasonable payee shall have the right to claim compensation from the payment service provider if the payment order has not been executed or has been carried out late or if it has been incorrectly executed. The liability of payment service providers under the law is not limited. This means that the authorising officer may request the payment service provider to repay the amount at which the payment order is issued, in the event of a delay in the execution of the task, and any other costs which he has charged in this regard, and which he has not made in time and properly effected that payment. However, the speciality that applies only to cross-border payments of lower value is that the payment service provider is obliged to repay the amount of payment up to EUR 12,500 within 14 days of receipt of the request and the remainder in accordance with the general provisions of the law governing compensation liability. The bill also provides that, at the request of a party to make a cross-border payment of a lower value, the payment service provider must make a bid to that effect, which must include indications of the time in which the payment is to be made, and indications of commission and other costs, which is an important element of transparency. However, other important amendments to this bill are as follows. Since the applicable law on payment transactions provides that payment services can only be provided by a clearing company established in the Republic of Slovenia which has obtained the authorisation of the Bank of Slovenia under the law, which is, of course, contrary to the principle of the free movement of capital, the proposal provides that payment services may also be provided by a clearing company from the Member States of the European Union or abroad, including under the permission of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the Settlement Finality Directive, which mainly governs the settlement arrangements in the event of bankruptcy, it is also provided in the proposal for a law that, if at least one member of the payment system is established in a Member State of the European Union, members of the payment transaction shall choose the law to apply to the payment system. However, they may only choose the law of that Member of the European Union in which at least one of these seats is established. The bill also complements the provisions governing bankruptcy of a member of the payment transaction. Dear Members or Members! The European Union has also adopted a regulation on cross-border payments in euro, which will apply directly to us with the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a major change. However, the main purpose of the regulation is to align the costs of payments in euro within the Member States of the European Union with the costs of payments in euro between the Member States of the European Union. Notwithstanding the fact that the Regulation will be directly applicable in Slovenia already now, it is incumbent on the Member States of the European Union to ensure appropriate sanctioning of infringements of the provisions of this Regulation, and this is also provided for in this proposal for a law. One of the most important solutions in the draft law, which is not related to compliance with European Union law, is to improve the situation of enforcement on the money of debtors in invoices in payment service providers. It's a big change. The proposal therefore includes a provision prohibiting payment service providers from opening a new transaction account to persons who have outstanding obligations on the basis of a decision or enforcement of compulsory recovery. The law also provides for penalties for payment service providers for infringements of those provisions. In practice, such a person opens a new transaction account with another payment service provider and monitors or makes payments without delay. Data on whether a person has outstanding obligations under enforcement decisions will be found in the Register of Transaction Accounts maintained by the Bank of Slovenia, which will also ensure transparency.As of 1 October this year, payment service providers will have to enter this data into the register and update it. Although the current law lays down the rights of the holders of the transaction accounts in the event of non-implementation and non-implementation of the payment order, there is also a possibility that payment service providers will try to avoid these provisions. In this case, only the enforcement of the claim for compensation by way of a court of law remains left to the holders of the transaction accounts. This path, as we know, is long-lasting and is not suitable especially for smaller amounts. Therefore, the proposal provides that Banka Slovenije may prescribe the content, methods and procedures for providing guarantees for the payment of outstanding payment orders to be provided by payment service providers. Finally, it must be said that there is a partial legal void in the current regime, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u156	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u157	payment service providers in relation to [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u158	present in the hall to calm down. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u159	by the resolution of court decisions of tax enforcement. [[...]] Therefore, the proposal for a law provides that the provisions of the law relating to receipt and acceptance of enforcement shall be the responsibility for payment of compensation responsibilities. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the payment of payments and the sending of notifications shall also be used mutatis mutandis for the execution of payments on the basis of the provisions of the national authorities. In order to comply with the law on offences as a criminal body, the Bank of Slovenia is also listed in the draft law, which will also carry out these procedures. All of these amendments and additions to the Law on Payments will not result in financial implications for the budget, but will help to better and internationally harmonised implementation of the transport payments of all our entities. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, several amendments adopted by the Government were tabled on the proposal for a law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed text of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Payments in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. The chairman of the committee, Mr Cyril Pucko, will submit a report to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. That bill was considered by the Committee at one of its last meetings. In doing so, we have found that due to clarity and better solutions, it is imperative to take into account and supplement and amend accordingly the draft law on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service of our National Assembly. In doing so, we found ourselves in a certain difficulty because we could not correct or amend Articles 35 and 36 accordingly. That's why the board's amendments only opened them up. On the table or on the bench, you have proposals for amendments to these two articles, which are tabled by three groups. I propose that, by adopting these amendments, we also correct paragraphs 35 and 36, which, due to the speed and complexity of the content itself, we have not been able to correct at the committee's own meeting. I propose that this proposal for a law by adopting these three amendments be supported and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. Please participate in the next part of the sitting. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Jožef Bernik has the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen! While the Government states in its explanation that in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the Treaties, the European Community may lead to a procedure - although not the consequences mentioned - against the Republic of Slovenia, but does not claim that there would be difficult remedial consequences for the Republic of Slovenia. This is again one of those changes that have about the same dictatorship, why this is an emergency procedure. It seems a little strange to man that we are accepting these amendments now, even though these directives were already adopted in 2002. These are two directives. The first interpretation of the Reason for adopting a proposal to harmonise Slovenian legislation on cross-border remittances is Directive 98 on final settlement in payments and securities settlement systems. It's stuck somewhere in the Ministry that we've only just got these reconciliations right now. The Secretary of State has explained very well what these changes mean and how they need to be understood and how they will work. That's why I'm not gonna go into this and waste time repeating these things. It is also interesting to mention, at least from my point of view, how to proceed in the event of insolvency proceedings, how to deal with members of the payment system, if payment orders were entered into the system before the insolvency proceedings began or in certain cases even if they were entered into the system after the insolvency proceedings had started. When a payment order is deemed to have been entered into the system, it is necessary to lay down the rules applicable to that system. The Directive also provides that the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings against a member of the payment system shall not affect the rights and obligations of members relating to the settlement arising prior to the initiation of the procedure. It is interesting that there is no, as I would say, analysis of how this alignment with the European directives will work on the European market or our domestic market, whether these are improvements over what we have now. I think it's a relatively complicated system, but I don't have enough knowledge to figure it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you, Dr. Bernick. Leopold Grošelj has the floor for the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The drafter of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments assessed that this was a matter of such substantive changes requiring an urgent procedure, and I must say that we did not object to this when coordinating this proposal. It seems particularly important to us that there are two objectives in amending this law. The main objective of the proposed novel is to include a definitive alignment with the rules of the European Union or its directives. I think it is extremely important here to take into account the current changes to other legislation. This is how certain solutions have been introduced, which have also proved necessary for the implementation of the law itself. In doing so, some editorial corrections have been made that are intended to contribute to greater clarity. We also think it is very important that some solutions are also proposed in the content of the law, which are not related to amendments to the European directives or regulations of the European Union. It has been specified that it provides, for example, that the Bank of Slovenia may prescribe the content, manner and procedure of providing guarantees for the payment of outstanding payment orders provided by payment service providers and that the possibility of other amendments to this Act, which have been included in our legal order, may be taken into account at the same time. One of them is the Offences Act. The basic purpose of supplementing Article 20 of this Law is, in particular, to ensure that the amendment to Article 19 on payment transactions provides the public with data from the Register of Transaction Accounts, which was also the main purpose of the applicant. The relevant amendment did not exactly show this matter in this light, and the amendment tabled to Article 20 also removes this and we believe that this ensures sufficient overall transparency. As regards what the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has already mentioned in his implementation, this is particularly related to Articles 35 and 36. It is true that an appropriate solution has been sought on the Committee, but it has been brought to the conclusion that the article has been opened and that the two amendments submitted, both to Article 35 and Article 36, also provide an appropriate solution. In doing so, it is essential that, under the State Administration Act and the Authority Regulation, which forms an integral part of it, it may then refer to a body responsible for the execution of public payments as a means of enforcement. In the light of all three amendments, I think the law is consistent, so we will also fully support it in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Ivan Christmas isn't here right now. Cyril Pucko will present the position of the LDS Club. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The essence of this law - which is why the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia supports it - is in compliance with European Union legislation. We particularly welcome the solution by which the law provides or provides that Banka Slovenije may prescribe the content and modalities of the guarantee procedure for the payment of outstanding tasks, for the payment provided by payment service providers. We believe that this provision will remove a major error in the current law on payment transactions and assess whether payment or discipline itself will improve slightly or possibly. At the same time, with what I have said, the Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the law along with the proposed three amendments of the three parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much. These were the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a law. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We will lead the debate on the basis of the material you have in your possession, in which, of 25.3. three members of the LDS Group, the United Nations Group and the DeSUS Group tabled three amendments, the amendment to Article 20 of the amendment to Article 35 and the amendment to Article 36. I am putting to the debate the amendments of these three parliamentary groups to Article 20. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 20. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. May I have your attention, because we're going to vote. We vote on the amendment to Article 20. And now we're done again, I'm sure. Could I have your attention, please? We vote second time on the amendment to Article 20. We're voting. There were 47 of us present, 41 for the amendment, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. I am making an amendment to Article 35 of the same parliamentary groups for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] It concludes the debate on the amendment to Article 35 and makes a decision. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There's enough of us in the hall. May I have your attention, please? It's Friday. We'd like to get off work as soon as possible. We'll vote next time. May I have your attention, please? We'll vote next time. There are 50 of us present, 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[1 versus.]] The amendment to Article 35 was supported, accepted. I am making an amendment to Article 36 for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 36 and move on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 for the amendment, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendments to Article 20, Article 35 and Article 36. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. [[No, no, ……]] On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Does that hold? Mr Rogelj, representative of the legislative and legal service, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u169	In accordance with Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that, due to amendments adopted to Articles 35 and 36 of the Law, the individual provisions of this proposal are mutually inconsistent. In fact, with the amendments to those articles, the text "Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Payments" is replaced by "the body responsible for public payments". However, this amendment created a lack of consistency in Article 1 and in some other articles of the draft law, in which the original specific designation of the "Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Payments" remained unchanged. Abolishing that non-compliance would require a harmonisation amendment to Article 1 whereby the designation of that body in this Article and in the whole of the law would be reordered by the amendments adopted to Articles 35 and 36. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much for that explanation. This has already been known if these amendments are to be accepted in order to bring about this disharmony. Mr. Sibil, you have the floor. By informing you that you already have a preliminary proposal for a harmonisation amendment on the bench. He's already come to the bench before he should have come, and that's why I apologize. I give you my word, Mr. Svilan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u171	Thank you very much. In preparation, the government found that this discrepancy could occur and, in cooperation with the legislative and legal services, also drafted a harmonisation amendment which, as the President said, had already been mistakenly placed on the table. We are now formally investing it in order to harmonise these differences in the concepts created by the amendments adopted. We propose that you also support this harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you very much for these two explanations. I am putting into discussion the harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments, and the third is being considered in the context of an urgent procedure to Article 1. You have the material on the table. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate on the harmonisation amendment and moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 48 of us present. 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. This eliminates the disharmony. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We're voting on the law. There are 48 of us present, 43 Members and Members voted in favour of the law, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We are moving to the last item of today's agenda. I thank the representatives of the Ministry of Finance for their cooperation. So we move on to 36. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a bill to monitor state aid, an emergency procedure. This bill was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the word "magic." Heleni Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, to further explain the bill. Please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members. With effect from 1 May, direct legislation and other rules of the European Commission shall apply in the field of State aid. Therefore, it is necessary to repeal the State Aid Act so far, while at the same time introducing a system that will provide at least two. Firstly, in order to prevent the possible return of State aid already granted, it would be necessary to find, through the supervision of the European Commission, that they are incompatible with the rules and, secondly, to ensure or continue to maintain central management, a record of the State aid granted, which will also ensure that the European Commission is informed in this area. The law ahead of you provides for these two tasks and provides for procedures to ensure them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you, Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Would you like a representative of the board to say a word? The chairman of the committee, Mr Cyril Pucko, will submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u175	Mr Vice President, as you have already said, we have considered the law. In doing so, we have found that the legislative and legal services have submitted comments to certain articles. In order to improve the content of the law, we adopted them in the form of amendments. I propose to the National Assembly that the amended law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Chairman of the Board. They shall follow the views of the members of the groups. Dr. Joseph Bernick has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u177	The position of the New Slovenia Group is that this law, as a new, independent law, is not necessary. Legal matter could be included in the other two laws relating to State aid, either State aid control or the basic State Aid Act itself. In addition, there is an urgent procedure for which there are no business arrangements. We've already said that. But the government is in a hurry because she's been missing a lot because she kept the laws in the drawer. As a result, this practice of granting State aid has become very controversial. You can look at the State Aid Report in 1990, 1991, 1992 and quickly see how state aid was distributed, despite the fact that it had already provided for the way in which it was dealt with and how it was supervised. So we get another third law, which increases the possibility of non-conformity and also lack of transparency. The granting of State aid is usually the most serious risk of undermining equality on the market and competition. As supervision will also be carried out by the Ministry, the question will be how this control will be truly quality and also how the political elite will not get involved in the economy and really ensure the transparency of those state aids that will not distort the order of the market. In fact, it is also some kind of cancer wound in Europe. State aid has always been controversial. There's a lot of gibberish and the biggest pool for corruption. There is something we can learn from the provision of state aid so far. Most of the financial interventions did not save companies that were in a difficult situation and in which the country intervened with budgetary resources to achieve recovery. It was often the involvement of politicians, political officials and elites in individual cases, not rarely suspicion and bribery. When you grant help to someone, the question arises immediately why you did not assign to others if they operate on the market and have the same positions. If they don't have the same positions, then you need to change the rules of the game that are set to be. Help who? This was a serious dilemma, often triggered, or the one dying to save it, or the one good enough to increase the number of jobs, increase the income, increase the budget revenues and whatnot. We have a few examples, a Maribor swimming pool, e.g. Elektrokovina, Maribor textile factory and others. Not to mention. There was money aid, not the European Union principle, because once you give this big money, it's in the next ten years or you can't give it to him anymore. State aid was on a cyclical basis, and this was untransparent and also harmful to the budget. Therefore, some entrepreneurs, companies, wonder whether they have been harmed in this case. It was an unequal treatment on the market.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Leopold Grošelj has the floor. Position of the United Nations Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State and Undersecretary! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will therefore fully support the law supplemented by the Committee on Finance and monetary policy on State aid monitoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Cyril Pucko has the floor for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support this law mainly for the following reason. We estimate that, on the basis of the records to be sent to the European Commission, the government and the national assembly, certain elements will also be needed to assess the effectiveness of State aid, which we all so much like to talk about. For this reason, both the law and the law issued on a legal basis should ensure that as much data as possible are obtained to assess the effectiveness of the performance I spoke about in the first part of my performance. For this reason, and for the reason that we are entering the European Union on 1 May, we are taking over the European acquis, and because we are still conducting certain activities within the Ministry of Finance, we will support the law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were tabled to the amended proposal. In the third reading of amendments, it is not possible to invest. We're moving on to a decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is inconsistent. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Colleagues and colleagues, I interrupt the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will continue on Monday, 29 March 2004, at 12.00 p.m. Thank you all for your cooperation and a nice weekend!
