ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I will inform you which colleagues and colleagues are absent due to other obligations. These are Dr. Brejc, colleagues Kangler, Kebric, Levič, from 18.30 p.m. on will be absent colleague Školč, up to 13.00 p.m. by colleague Jerovšek and all day by colleague Roberto Battelli. We're moving to 2. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT LEGISLATION PROPOSAL 43. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a constitutional law was tabled by the Constitutional Commission and received by a report from this Commission. We will begin by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for this constitutional law. The first shall have the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members, Comrade Vojko Celigoj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The balanced representation of both genders in the election run to state authorities and local authorities is important and necessary in view of the support that the proposal for constitutional change has received. Although various international legal instruments oblige us to ensure equal opportunities for both sexes, the representation of women in the beloved organs in Slovenia is still more symbolic than not. The proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is intended to give effect to the promotion of equality between women and men in elections, would certainly be the first step towards equal representation of both sexes in the conduct of public affairs. Although the Constitution already provides in Article 14 for the principle of equality before the law, which is also true of sex, in all these years the article in force in this area has not moved to the benefit of women, as far as running for elected bodies is concerned. Despite the fact, statistics on gender representation in political decision-making are also good, far from balanced representation. The European elections have just been held. We therefore conclude that Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is not sufficient to realize what we want and that we do not agree with those who feel otherwise. In the DeSUS Group, support for ensuring equal opportunities for equal representation of women and men in public affairs is not questionable. We believe, however, that the formulation of constitutional change is not about "de facto" equality, but, as the title itself says, about promoting it. This is also the content of the proposed amendment, since it is limited only to candidateing. In addition, the wording of the text does not bind to anything, but the programme encourages only the possibility. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed amendment is welcome because it can also help to change the thinking which is still in power in Slovenia. Despite the adopted law on the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men. It is that politics is mostly in the domain of men. Of course, only the principle level will not suffice as far as legislation, sub-legislative and other relevant acts do not change in this direction in addition to the Constitution. The first successes are, as has been said, visible in the elections to the European Parliament, where legislation has already made it possible to effectively run and elect women. A variety of incentive measures would be welcome, i.e. measures which, as defined by the Equal Opportunities for Women and Men Act, with a view to creating equal opportunities in a particular area of social life, justifiably introduce different treatment between men and women. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the importance of the issue, so we believe that all aspects of the proposed constitutional change need to be considered. Positive discrimination can be negative for someone, and we must achieve that we do not cross the border. It is therefore necessary to establish a substantive equality between the sexes. Equality before the law is a feature of modern law. It is the foundation of justice and one of the essential values of law. It is up to us to try to put it in our legal order, in this case from above down. In the DeSUS Group, we support a more decisive step towards a more gender balance in representative bodies, as well as in other public decision-making bodies. And last but not least in other areas of social life. Since we believe that the proposed constitutional amendment helps to achieve the desired objective, we will support the proposal for a constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. This was the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by colleague Majda Širc. Comrade Maja Shirtz, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At a time when we have changed and drafted a proposal to change the constitution, it has now been more than two years, our ideas have also come to life in practice. The very process of transforming the Constitution into a way of promoting equal opportunities has, I can say, been patient, full of dialogue, as well as supporting civil society initiatives, as well as full consensus among the various political options. It was the only way he could succeed, and it was the only way he could get the majority support without being subjected to scepticism and doubts that had occurred a few years ago. Perhaps doubts and concerns have also resolved concerns and constant warnings from the European Union. Perhaps it is our awareness of the equal opportunities of men and women in political or public life, which is more patient than it was years ago. Perhaps the Slovenian reality, where women still find it difficult to choose public political functions, is too dark. However, the proposal to intervene in the Constitution has been largely supported in all the previous cases, in particular within the decision-making process of the Constitutional Commission. Moreover, even an improvement of the proposal was supported, as the word "may" could therefore be set out to promote equal opportunities, let go and make the article more binding. Moreover, the amendment of the electoral law to the European Parliament has also been supported, which has actually implemented exactly what encourages the constitution or what will happen if we vote on its amendment today. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are pleased that we are not alone in supporting greater representation of women in political space. Our long-standing openings to these issues in general and not only in the field of legislation give certain results. Women are becoming more confident, they are more receptive, we point out differences, they demand more forcefully, we demand change. And I am sure that future generations will accept such questions, which may still be open and unresolved for us, as self-sustaining and understandable ways of equal treatment of the sexes. Thus in processes, in working processes, both in public life, in the family and, of course, elsewhere, everything where there are differences or subordinations today. When the President of the European Commission, Mr Romano Prodi, defended and defended the new Commissioners and Commissioners in the European Parliament a good month ago, parliamentarians asked him the most frequently question about so-called women's quotas. Some have even requested that a special post be opened for the Commissioner or Commissioner, who will deal only with equal opportunities. He did not promise this, but it is true that he insisted on the importance of this issue and on the fact that Europe will continue to adhere to this principle as it has in recent years, when it has adopted recommendations and various other measures following the current tape, including alerting those who have not yet had or have not. On the candidate lists for the European Parliament elections, we were represented by Slovenia with 45%. This is certainly the first time in the history of Slovenian elections. That said, there were 41 women and 50 men. This was, of course, followed by a result for which the Slovenians in the European Union or Parliament will no longer be embarrassed. It is true that this has been the result of legislative measures. And it is also true that, as long as we adopt and confirm today the amendment of the Constitution, such and similar legislative measures will also be followed by other legislation. We will undoubtedly support today's change in the Liberal Democracy as proposed and supported by the Constitutional Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much. This was the position of the LDS Club. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Club will be presented by a colleague of France Tsukati. You have the floor, mate Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Just two years ago, we passed a law on equal opportunities between women and men. And already in Article 1 of this Law, we have written it like this. This law lays down common ground for improving equal opportunities for women and men in political, economic, social, educational and other areas of social life. So not only in political but also in economic, social, educational and other areas. And in Article 8, we wrote something about measures. This is what we wrote down. Positive measures can be taken in the areas of education, education, employment, professional life and public or political participation. Therefore, not only in the field of political participation, but also in the field of education and education, employment and professional life. However, these measures are without a basis or impossible to implement until we change the Constitution. Back then, it was a mistake to go to law school and change the constitution. Now we are going to change the Constitution only in the field of political participation. And the law that I mentioned also states in Article 5: "Indirect discrimination because of sex exists if, in the appearance of a neutral provision, criteria and conduct in the same or similar circumstances and conditions, persons of one sex are placed in a less favourable position." Your Honor! The point system for grading graduation is certainly a fair system. And the admission to college is a fair system. And yet we do have a college that's registered to more than 5% of the boys. What follows from this? It follows that our system enters college education is not fair. He's not fair. That's what we warned you about. And that's why it happens to us that we have feminization of entire professions and masculinization of other professions. And I believe that it is necessary to make it possible to change the Constitution and this area, which we have written down by law, does not have a constitutional basis and will not have it now. And that is again some problem that arises in this mandate. We're solving questions in part, under pressure from a certain lobby. We have a hearing for that lobby and, of course, we will also support this constitutional change. But this solution is partial, not good. This is a disease of this mandate. It is certainly very good that, in the political field, we allow or establish mechanisms where women have equal access to politics, into a system of political decision-making. We need a balance in the political field, so we will support this constitutional change. However, we have also proposed an amendment to this amendment, not only in the political field, but also to allow equal access to vocational education. So, an impression of the sphere of decision-making, where it's not political decision-making, it's professional decision-making. You know, knowledge is power, knowledge is about important things. And we're sorry that you didn't accept our amendment, but, as I said, this is a disease of this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u7	Thank you very much. This was the position of the SDS Group of Members. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by a colleague of mags. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! In the UK Group, we expect the proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to receive support. The expectation is even stronger because we rely not only on very high support in the current procedures for amending Articles 44 and 43 of the Constitution, but also on the results of the first elections to the European Parliament, which are due to the introduction of positive measures into electoral legislation, because the change would certainly not have happened if the parties had placed women in an elective place, but at the same time some had to accept the prescribed man's quota. Satisfaction reduces slightly only the fact that a similar amendment to the electoral law to the National Assembly will have to wait for a new reference. The United List of Social Democrats is one of those political parties that have already taken a firm stand for measures to encourage and ensure equal opportunities for men and women to run for elected authorities at national and local level. The quotas and other positive measures are therefore understood only as measures to achieve the final objective, and this is parity democracy. Let me remind you of some concrete proposals that make this effort. First of all, a group of 12 members with first-signed Lev Kreft tabled an amendment to Article 20 of the bill on political parties, which received majority support in September 1994. However, it did not receive support for a requirement for a mandatory interpretation of this provision, which would oblige the parties to take into account the statutory provisions on the proportion of both sexes on the candidate lists. At that time, the rejection of the Government's position, the secretariat for legislation and the home body to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on political parties, submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Mateja Kožu Novak, made it impossible to adopt in the National Assembly in March 1996, although the applicants were prepared to take into account comments and the proposal to correct it by correcting the shortcomings. At that time, the question as to whether political parties who are usually the main candidates may be required by law to provide for an obligation relating to the composition of the list coincided with a decision of the Constitutional Court on national lists. In terms of equality of electoral rights and equality before the law, they did not recognize them as constitutionally controversial, although they constituted a serious exception to the usual criteria and method of electing Members and Members. However, the proposal to amend the electoral law, which would restrict the use of national papers solely to ensuring adequate representation of sub-represented social groups, was not adopted. Not only in us, but also in the European Union, they see the balanced representation of women in the beloved representative bodies at all levels overcoming the democratic deficit and ensuring a more coherent and faster comprehensive development of society. However, at a time when a reflection on the future of Europe was formed in the proposal for a constitutional treaty, the absence of a majority of the population showed very obvious. Individual women who can participate in decision-making cannot replace women as excluded majority groups because research confirms that only 30% of women's representation can ensure their impact on decisions. Social Democrats from all European countries advocate that any representation below 40% is insufficient and unacceptable. But the goal, as we say, is equal representation. In laws, equality in itself does not yet constitute good practice. Although Slovenia has signed various international instruments and recommendations, it has also adopted a law on equal opportunities between women and men on the principle of equal treatment. The provisions of the Labour Relations Act shall be applied. It has recently ratified the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Greater participation of women in decision-making processes cannot be expected naturally. For example, there can be both domestic local elections and recent elections to the European Parliament. Therefore, special measures, so-called positive measures and the proposed constitutional law amending Article 43, are necessary. It is therefore time for the Republic of Slovenia, by means of the proposed constitutional law, to enable political parties to take such measures as will in the future guarantee women equal rights in decision-making and equal responsibility for the quality of life in it. Including creating a woman-friendly working environment. In the United List of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the path to parity democracy therefore leads through specific measures, namely quotas, financial incentives, the candidate list system and other positive measures. Of course, at the same time, we are aware that a greater proportion of women in decision-making must also be followed by greater consideration of their views and opinions that they will not only cooperate but also co-form and co-decision. That they won't just talk, but they'll be heard. Even in countries with a very well-established role, women always find themselves finding themselves in a "deaf box" if I help myself with Janez Fortress or "under a glass ceiling or glass bell" if I help myself with a professional expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u9	Thank you. This was the position of the ZLSD Group. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by counterpart Franci Rokavec and has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. Secretary! The rest of you are present! The amendment to the Constitution, which concerns the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men in elections, receives all the support in our party. In the Slovenian People's Party, as the first party in Slovenia, we adopted an action plan to help our party contribute to a greater proportion of women in politics. All of us who have ever dealt with this issue are aware of alarming data on the proportion of women in the highest and most visible positions in our country. In the Slovenian People's Party, we represent the view that we must create a working and social environment that will allow women equal cooperation in all social areas and will not constantly put them before decisions on either family or career. The proposal for a constitutional amendment concerning the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men to run for elections is a positive step in our party's view. Its aim is to contribute to improving the current state of representation of women in the authorities. Compared to the proportion of men, this is negligible to the extent that we can talk about half-representativeity. The representation of women in public authorities and other decision-making positions is so small that we can almost talk about the absence of part of the population from decision-making or participation in decision-making on issues of common interest. The unequal representation of the individual sex in higher positions is also present elsewhere in Europe, but in many European countries the basis for this situation has already been removed. In Slovenia, we are lagging behind the majority of the European Union in its abolition, which is why the present problem needs to be seen as one of the political priorities. The fact is that the current situation for modern representative democracy in the European Union is unacceptable and we cannot and must not accept it. The balanced representation of the representatives of both sexes is fair, but this is not just about justice. It is also a matter of realizing that the cooperation of both sexes will result in different aspects, positive, constructive results. The fact that the inclusion of both sexes also leads to better quality debates has been highlighted, at least the inclusion of different views leads to more politically wise decisions representing the interests and aspects of the larger part of the population. In our view, it is particularly important to point out that the adoption of measures for the differentiated treatment of both sexes does not in any way constitute discriminatory regulation or treatment, but rather to establish an environment of equal opportunity for both sexes through the measures envisaged. So we're talking about legitimate differentiation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we supported the proposed law amending and supplementing the law on elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. Under this law, we have also been co-signed as a parliamentary group by amendments aimed at enabling women to be better able to run. And I also have a review of the representation in the new European Parliament by Slovenian Members and Members shows us a much better picture since three MEPs will sit in the European Parliament from seven Members. I am sure that the time before the European Parliament's elections has also proved once again that, in our species, women who, with their knowledge, work and commitment, are enriching our party and the areas in which they operate. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the incentive measures envisaged by the amendment of the Constitution in the field and we will support the proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 43 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u11	Thank you very much. This was the position of the SLS Group of Members. The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be moved by my colleague, Saša Peca, and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! In Article 43, a new fourth paragraph is to be added. The law lays down measures to promote equal opportunities for men and women to run for state elections and local community bodies is the text around which today's debate will take place. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, it is exclusively a matter of changing the political nature. If, of course, the applicants were not to be monitored or if they were not accompanied by a political and solely political motive, the proposal would read: "The law lays down measures to promote equal opportunities between men and women." Why limit men and women, or equality, only to the political field, as the proponents say, to elections to state authorities, and secondly to local authorities. The proposal on the Constitutional Commission was, of course, to extend equality, but the extension of equality for the majority in this national council was not acceptable. And it is those who today claim that this is absolutely necessary, meaningful and I do not know what else, who take the opposite position - therefore, that the Constitution should be exclusively drafted, that the law lays down measures to promote equal opportunities for men and women to run for elections to state authorities and local authorities. Thus, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party or the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, the sentence, the provision, should read: "The law lays down measures to promote equal opportunities between men and women." However, of course, if the National Assembly were to adopt a very general, universal clause on equality between men and women, then we would come to the existing 14th section of the Constitution, which says "we are all equal before the law." And from this, at least according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, it is clear that a new or proposed constitutional amendment is unnecessary. Article 14 of the Constitution says "we are all equal before the law", in paragraph 1 even mentions "no matter what sex, age" and similar things. The speaker before me expressed a very interesting view that the proposal for constitutional changes is a step forward in changing the mindset. True, many in this Chamber should change their mind if they wanted to apply equal opportunities for men and women, but not change the Constitution, which, in its 14th article, wrote that before the law we are all equal, and of course includes the highest level of equality. The second representative, in presenting her position - and I will not touch him - said that the current process of constitutional change had been carried out with tolerance, in the form of a discussion, a consensus. However, she forgot to say that the current process of constitutional change in this area has been carried out in the context of the transposition - the transfer to this extent that every political party is either way - I will focus exclusively on politics, because the proponents demanded equality solely in the political field when they cited the election to state authorities and local community bodies. It is as if we forget that all political parties do not have their own rules and that it is the parties who today are most vehemently advocating after the entry into force of the new Article 43 that have the opportunity to ensure equality if they actually strive to do so. In 2000, when parliamentary elections took place, one of the political options at a congress in Celje with a large media pump was adopted by the so-called women's quota. Personally, this seems humiliating to me to talk about quotas, namely women's quotas, whether or not they would talk about men's quotas. But, of course, people have some dignity and force that way, talk about quotas, it's humiliating. Well, that political party, with a large media pump in 2000, adopted a so-called women's quota at a meeting, a very widespread and media-highly covered meeting. When the ladies and gentlemen of this political party came home and thought about it, within 14 days without a media pump, they changed this decision; it was within the framework of the Liberal Democracy. But of course, they changed that, the conclusion, they said that it was invalid, because they thought about it and saw that it didn't work out that way. This change was without a media pump, the story began in 2000, and let us not forget that there were then national elections, and any kind gesture was still welcome to win, in this case, naive elections and voters. In 2002, two years later, a broad debate on women's quotas at local level was launched in the context of another government party, namely just before the local elections. But of course nothing but an extensive debate, without a conclusion, without the right content, just by identifying the known fact that women in politics are not enough. And that everything in our country is for this, and that this is all the result or situation in Slovenia are the consequences of this established state that women are too few. In 2003, this National Assembly appointed the so-called seven MEPs and appointed them. Nor was it necessary for them to be put to the elections; the National Assembly was given the exclusive right to appoint a nominee of seven MEPs. And despite the fact that Europe had already warned us at that time that it would make sense that between these seven one, two, three, four, five, six, seven women, again in the largest parties to which these seats belonged, they decided exclusively for male candidates. So that I don't count the customers, I'll just give you one. Liberal democracy has gained three vacant seats. And in three vacant cities, the Liberal Democracy has built three men. Not a single woman. The story was repeated in 2004. So this year, when we have two elections. For the first time before or after us are the elections to the European Parliament and in the autumn we have elections to be held in this national assembly. Thus, in the framework or on the basis of the desire of the Liberal Democracy, we have adopted a law with approximately content defining the way in which elections are to be held in the Europarliament. Again with a large media pump, a so-called women's quota was adopted. How much one sex must be represented and how much another sex must be represented. And who on the hierarchy of the scales must be placed in the foreground and who in the background. Of course, the law was passed, I think there was no strong opposition to the law, but 14 days after the law, Slovenia regained its right for a year or for a period of time, I apologize, less than a year, to put up seven European observers. Despite the fact that we had already reached a decision on candidates and candidates in the European elections at the time, this national assembly has repeatedly violated the provisions of the electoral law in the European Parliament. And he's among the seven candidates, I'm sorry, among the seven European observers he's confirmed only one-woman. What's going on? Nor did women in this National Assembly, with the exception of Sonja Areh Lavrič, object to such content, which was precisely in violation of the law adopted 14 days earlier, the law on elections to the European Parliament and which, of course, violated all those standards and the big words about how it is necessary and necessary to send a loved body, the European Parliament, women, to this body. But all of you at that time supported this apparent or substantive violation. The proposals contained in the draft constitutional law amending Article 43 of the Constitution say that the law will have substantive consequences and that the law or amendment of the Constitution will also have legal effects. There will be no such consequences. Unless, of course, the thought changes. And for your mentality, you just proved that you failed to change it from 2000 to 2002, from 2003 to this year, this year 2004. And that this kind of swearing on such constitutional changes or complementing constitutional articles is quite meaningless. It's all about misleading and selling some illusion every year just before the elections. The proposals below state, of course, a legal view in their content. A legal view of where the idea came from and what the legal consequences of this will be. The applicants refer to the legal documents of the United Nations or the United Nations Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. There is a great deal of even explanation by the proposalers that Article 25 of this Pact speaks of equality before the law. And that is one of the reasons why the Constitution should be amended in Article 43. But of course we all forget, we have exactly the same distinction of equality before the law in the Republic of Slovenia written in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for ten years. But of course no one ever looked back on her. Therefore, to talk about the content of such a change without considering, of course, that there is a big difference and that I will not go any further than this house, such as speech and later voting, so much time in our country of course will not be better in this area. I am personally and, of course, in the Group of Members of the Slovenian National Party, we are disappointed that the content of this article has come to light. So, once again, I will stress or read, "The law provides for measures to promote equal opportunities between men and women." Everything's fine, and we'd be happy to support that at the National Party. But not by continuing the content where you say exactly that equality or promotion of equal opportunities in Slovenia is provided in the new way only in the area of candidates for elections to state authorities and local authorities. It is sad that we have so restricted or so limited equality before marriage or gender equality. In the National Party, we cannot, of course, oppose the amendment of Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. But I'm afraid we're obviously the only ones who are aware of meaningless work. The real purpose of the founder, in this case the case of the National Assembly, if you would like to cut down to a better, better, more respectful relationship between one and the other sex, of course, would be sufficient if you would accept that dictatorship only in the first part of the sentence. And to conclude, I will quote him: "The law sets out measures to promote equal opportunities between men and women." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u13	Thank you very much. This was the position of the SNS Group of Members. Finally, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by a colleague, Dr Bernik, who I give him my word. Then we will conclude the presentation of the group's positions and move on to a discussion on the sections or articles of the proposal. Now you have the floor, Comrade Dr. Bernik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! In Novi Slovenija we stand up for human nature and its gifts to every person for equality between men and women. In this sense, we are against any distinction between people on the basis of sexual diversity. We are based on the principle of equality between men and women in terms of their natural gifts, and we also insist on the starting points, and we also practice that women are in no way worse, less capable, less valuable than men, taking into account the fashionable characteristics of each of us. We have already proved this in our political life. As we are against any negative discrimination, we are also against positive discrimination to achieve gender equality. This, we believe, must be achieved by both sexes without positive discrimination mechanisms. In New Slovenia we warn that the Constitution and the law alone cannot do all the work. It is necessary to gradually change the mindset, eliminate stereotypes and prejudices that are still deeply rooted in the everyday life of both sexes. It must be said that the very proportion of women in politics does not show the degree of non-democraticism of each country. However, in conjunction with other democratic values, it can have a significant impact on the state of the spirit in society. A long report on the status of women in post-communist transition countries has recently been prepared for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It contains many proposals to improve the current situation. This report among the institutional mechanisms for the advancement of women in society mentions the initial mechanisms that have been adopted in Slovenia in this direction, but notes that not much has been done since then, and I now state: "in the interests of the relative power of women in government and society and in the changes in the traditional retention of male behaviour." End of quote. I think that's what we're thinking. A constitutional amendment, as suggested, what to say. Whether it is needed, useful or not, it is only about promoting the potential of men and women to run for state elections and local authorities. Is that enough? Won't it just cause the opposite reaction? Indeed, such a message would be particularly important for the state and citizens, but it does not go deep enough to address this problem. Political parties should take this problem seriously and practice it and citizens should, on the other hand, punish such parties who do not respect this natural principle in elections. All of this requires the training of people in the family, school, public life, and living examples. It is in these areas that women should already have great influence, whether constitutional law or not. Just a few observations. How, for example, to eliminate the blockade of women to leading positions in the economy, in trade unions or, which is very significant for Slovenia, in the social inclusion of women in the presence of their men politicians in public events and so on. In New Slovenia, we would be more impressed with this proposal if, in our current practice, we saw consistent respect for the Constitution and the legislation on the part of the ruling authorities. After all, laws that remain only words do not contribute to the rule of law. We will not oppose the proposed amendments to Article 43 of the Constitution in Novi Slovenija, and we hope that something positive will come of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Bernick. By presenting the views of New Slovenia, we have concluded this part of the debate. We are moving on to a debate on the sections or articles of the draft constitutional law. In order to avoid any procedural misunderstandings - two chapters, one article and the other, which provides for a declaration - I propose that we discuss both together if there is no objection. So I will give the floor to the Members and Members in order to discuss both articles or sections. First, colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Of course, after four years of working in this House, we can ask ourselves if we are doing only pre-election stories all the time. Mr Pece, what we are doing when we adopt this constitutional change is not a pre-election story, I think. It's not an illusion sale either. I think this is an important shift in Slovenian society. This is timeless; we who are not can contribute or not from this privileged place at this time. Constitutional forms and provisions in the Constitution as the highest social contracts have an extremely important place in each society. They can direct the work of a society and thus shape its intentions. That's exactly why they make sense. They form areas of active citizenship. And offer a practical means of overcoming differences between, on one side of the language of desire, and on the other side of the action. The intention of Slovenian society to allow more women to participate in politics will become a constitutional provision of great importance, according to my assessment. Because it also reflects the degree of maturity of society in the knowledge that dispersal of power is a prerequisite for strengthening the values of equality and reciprocity, which are key to creating a consensus climate that is of paramount importance in every political space. Last but not least, the Constitution is such an important protection that we also have in society against ourselves. How to ensure equal participation in public decision-making is also a fundamental problem of modern democracies facing many dilemmas on this issue. Also with the dilemma of creating an electoral system that will enable the representative body to take the most mirroring picture of the desires and expectations of society. In fact, these studies have continued from the ancient philosopher Aristotle when he claimed that the life of an active citizen was worth the only life worth living. I would like to point out that in Slovenia, in the last period, at least in these four years, as far as I am following from this place, events in the Slovenian space have actually taken place in this area. I mean not only the electoral law in the European Parliament, which introduces a quota system, a law of equal opportunity and, in fact, an extremely high consensus between men and women Members and Members in the drafting of this constitutional proposal, but also for today's forecast of support for this, but also for the amendment of Article 43 of the Constitution. I mean, of course, also the extremely tolerant and open discourse in Slovenia, not just the political public when it comes to equal opportunities. This is not an illusion, this is an important shift in Slovenian society. We are all aware and also aware that when we tabled this proposal for constitutional change, Slovenia's accession to the European Union will not in itself raise the level of political culture and change the current situation. The reputation of women in politics in Scandinavian countries and in most others, however, represented some important political pressure and opportunity to look at ourselves in our own mirror. At all these international meetings and at the time of acceptance of the declaration, one of the indicators of the level of democracy achieved in society, we were told the achieved level of women in politics. And in the Slovenian space, we do not avoid the responsibility that these levels, higher levels of democracy in society, would not be achieved by their actions. Positive measures, i.e. quotas, to sound so uneven, have proved to be an effective mechanism in European practice to increase women's participation in politics. And honourable Members, I think we must acknowledge that, on 13 June, in the elections of the first Slovenian Members and Members of Parliament to the European Parliament, we already have a Slovenian practice. We must not stifle our eyes that, of course, voters and voters, when they elect their constituents to represent them, see that these are experienced politicians, know that they have ten years or more of political practice, making them credible to represent them in such an important space as the European Parliament. And with such behaviour in Slovenian society, of course, we would say that women who are not profiled by politicians in the political space according to their length, if we look only at Slovenian Members, we are in this assembly, except for the reverential internship of our colleague Possonchev in fact the fourth year. And this is not such a stage that voters and voters of course would say, these are the formed political people in our Slovenian space. Without such a system, we would certainly not be able to boast that three beautiful ladies are leaving for the European Parliament as representatives of Slovenia and the Slovenians. That's after all 43% of the team we're sending there. And if this is not just a thank you provision in the electoral law to the European Parliament, taking into account the fact that I mentioned it earlier, then of course it is not an illusion, Mr Pece, it is a reality. I personally believe that these three Members will represent us extremely well. Although they do not have a political kilometre behind them, a friendly electoral system has allowed them to turn out there. So, knowing that men's politicians who have historically first participated in power have, of course, decided and designed a more or less institutional environment for women's entry into politics, they have, I think, in 2004, made the right decision with some decisions, so men have made the right decision. In fact, they have shown that they are willing to give up the work of power, the work of power they possess, in the interest of women in the name of greater equality and justice in Slovenian society. So we must admit, however, that at the time of the adoption of this constitutional change, thanks our male colleagues to this wisdom. So, the maturity of Slovenian society I think is at such a stage that we can be proud of our fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u17	Thank you very much. My friend Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u18	President, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be brief, because I'm telling you, except for rare exceptions, so there's not much to add to what's already been said. I would only briefly illustrate a personal experience, not least from the management of the municipality of Koper for 7 years when we had a collective, 100-member, when the situation was devastating with regard to the representation of women in the municipal world. Only 4% representation, which is why we all made sure that it was in the administration, not about the general staff, but about the leading cities, were taken care of by 80% representation of women in the leading cities. But of course, the difference is that when you name someone, you can take care of it, but when we go to the elections, it doesn't happen. The amendment that we are now introducing into the Constitution and the current legislative changes, the electoral changes, in the gender equality law, are making sure that improvements are made. The improvement - that was already the talk, we saw in this time's elections. It's very important. Now we have to do our best, but this is not about legislation, but about the fact that the emancipation of the female population is also increasing for a different or more engaged public awareness. Last but not least, women themselves have to fight to ensure that they do not enter politics from quotas into the future, but also, if we want, preferential voices. This is what awaits us, after we have changed and completed the Constitution and may even adopt better laws from this title in the coming term. But the point is that, of course, in the next European Parliament, it would be good for three or four women in seven to come in with a preferential vote. As far as I'm concerned, of course I'll be happy to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I don't see a colleague like this. But that's why my friend Barovich is here and he has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u20	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The previous words of the speakers and speakers made me feel very uncomfortable because if I put myself in a position of a listener who doesn't know the situation, who doesn't know what it is, I would understand it as if women in this House, in this country, had no rights and now that we are giving them some rights. Second, I'm a man, but today I've heard the expression "female quotas" three times. And, for the record, women aren't quotas like milk quotas! Women are people! And here, please be careful, not telling yourself that you are quotas, ladies of honor! You're people, you're not quotas! If this proposal is not amended, I wonder whether 90 women should not sit in this House, for example. Tell me where it says in the constitution! Instead of modifying Article 43 of the Constitution as proposed by colleague Majda Shirca long ago to introduce double-sexism and to be resolved, we are now talking about how women have no right. 43. Article 43 states: "Any citizen who has reached the age of 18 has the right to vote and be loved." Okay, let's write "every citizen and citizen" and so on - that's the point! What would happen if this proposed constitutional change that we are talking about were not? Who, for example, opposes the esteemed colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs? I respect her! She's even the great vice president of the National Assembly! Who was holding her back? Who challenged my colleague Jerzi Hatel any opportunity to speak about anything? Who are hindering their opportunities, and why should they be brought into law? But now I'm going to ask, the law protects and obliges, so it forces. Now let us ask ourselves: Are we protecting women with their rights or are we forcing them by such law that they must now be here, there, doing this and that? Let's ask ourselves honestly. Let's follow the logic of thought. Women are in a distinct minority - okay, whose fault is it? Is it the wrong constitution? Is it because of bad legislation - this is a claim - or because of the oppression of women? If there is any oppression of women, we are the first to make laws here, and we will stop this oppression. You know, it's always about the will, the word or the letter of the constitution or the law. Does anyone ask women if they are willing and willing to participate in politics and can do so? Now tell me I'm a demagog, even though I know it's the ones who talk and highlight how important this is, the demagogogs. Can my wife, with whom we have two children, who must care for a home that has to care for ironing, who has to worry that everything is okay with me when I'm here at night meetings and afternoons somewhere else, or can she work actively? We're gonna make her do it with the law, say. I mean, let's take a look at two sides. Let us ask women if their will is, if the will is political, in particular political options, any, including Slovenian national parties in the first place, if it is, then women will have their space, their place, their validity and their meaning everywhere. Not now demagogies run by law, by constitutional laws, by constitutional changes, because we live in an Islamic country where women must be imprisoned, so far they have no rights. They have all rights, but above all they are not quotas. Women are people. And if they have the will and the will, they will perform and they will work. And political parties with their leaders will put them first - if they appreciate them. However, if they do not appreciate them and if they do not give them, neither does any constitutional law, except, of course, forcing us to have three out of five women. That's what's bothering us. We don't mind that kind of change. And if we change, once again, paragraph 43, so that double-sex can be very precise, the matter is completely clear and it's too bad that we're going here now with demagogy, with polythology and I don't know what else! But most of all, it hurts, once again, that's what we've done to devalue women, because we recognize that they're like some alien beings that we have to make a special decision about, but they're not. Women are people like us. And now women, women, women. What are they? Aliens or something? Women are just like us men. We're human. And by this we stress - we are doing exactly the opposite. On the contrary, we work. All right, if you admit for yourself that you're not, that's your problem, that women are equal to us, you are and you will be. That depends on the man and his relationship. I wanted to say this because it really doesn't seem fair and fair to me that we're going to do something, and it hurts because -- I'm going to say it again, but don't get me wrong. In fact, women are people, like us, not quotas, not some special condition. That is what saddens them or deplores them by speaking about them in a special way. Let's just understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u21	A bit of a colorful debate. My colleague Maja Zupan now has the floor. Not enough time. You want a colleague Sonja Areh, if you still have time, can't I see on the display right now? Colleague Sonja Areh doesn't want to. Mag. A little something? There's no time either, because I can't see on my display, so I'm sorry. Does Shirtz's colleague still have time? More. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mrs Areh may not speak, for the evaluation of women, Mr Barovic, takes place when her voice is not taken into account and when her will is not respected. And in your client, when your colleague volunteered to sign the amendment of Article 43 or 44 of the Constitution, you objected to her will, that is evaluation. Only 13.3% of us women are in Parliament, in the national Slovenian Parliament, and this was the reason why the change in the Constitution encouraged not only in the future but also in the national parliaments, but also in the local level, so-called quotas. And paragraphs 43 and 44 of the Constitution, Mr Pache, does not talk about imaginary matters, but talks about elections, about election rights. And if we were to add and amend one or the other article in a way that only if we were to say that the law could serve certain incentive measures between men and women without stating that it was a question of candidate papers or election rights, then we could not vote on such a change at all, because it was articles that spoke of electoral rights. However, you or any other amendment to other articles, possibly those talking about the judiciary and the promotion of perhaps men to decide for the judiciary. After all, we have heard that we women are the ones who are to blame for the backlog because we are too many of us in this profession. But other laws are, other laws, which introduce these measures, so-called incentive measures, into their solutions, not just last year's adoption of a law on equal opportunities, a law on labour relations, school legislation. This month's school legislation is talking about the goals that will have to be achieved in those professions that are under-represented or have no balanced objectives. Not to say that the Equal Opportunities Act requires each political party to regulate its so-called quota or any other solution or to represent its objectives in the field of equal opportunities in its statutes. And when the revision and the annual report of these statutes are being carried out, I hope that these objectives will also make sense in those parties that do not find such measures meaningful. Because they're gonna have to be! Since not only does the law require it, it also requires morality and requires ethics and ultimately, okay, the European Union also requires it. I think that this kind of change - and I liked that such changes did not create doubts, create spectacular concerns and do not create debates that would underestimate these measures when we spoke and when we were dealing with elections to the European Parliament. It happened in a way that was a self-evident and normal part of participation. And I loved that very much. In this sense, I think that the debate, once another key law is opened, the electoral law in the National Assembly will be, and the next parliamentary set will be, I hope that it will also be supported at the point when specific measures are needed. Because special measures are only necessary when the objectives are not achieved. When they are reached, no more specific measures will be necessary. This is about certain moderatorial or even temporary ways to achieve those goals when justice is not satisfied. Hala.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Comrade Shirtz. My friend Brenčič is gone, my colleague Štemberger is gone, and the government is not. I called my colleague Sonja Areh to the floor earlier, and I was told she didn't want a word. Now I'm giving her within the amount of time that's left at your disposal. Because there's no time left and I'll ask the rest of them if they want a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You'd only have a replica of Mrs. Shirco. Right now, once again, I'm always deciding on my own group and no one is raping me with anything. But it is also a matter of our agreement, as we speak in our client. But that is true, as long as we women throw ourselves anywhere or really rape each other; I really can't agree with any woman here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u25	All we have now is an obligation, if anyone wants, to hold a full debate on the proposal for a constitutional law. We've got eight minutes left. I find that there is no such desire for discussion. Then I'll have a discussion. Please, you have time in time. [[...]] Who else wants a word? A colleague of Zupanov's. Anyone else? Colleague of Potrat and Comrade Petty Officer. Then every minute. One minute at a time. Please, colleague Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. As a Member of Parliament, I am pleased that all efforts at different levels have led us to win three women from seven Members of the European elections. If there were no such efforts, I am sure that men would still represent women, even though women represent the majority of the population. I am sure that women will know another way - I hope that a better way - to act and act in politics and that in fact they will in some way lead to a greater breakthrough of women on the political scene in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of yours. One minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The positive experience of running for European elections has enabled the electoral body to break the stereotype that women do not vote for women. A review of the results of women's preferred votes proves that they have been collected in all political options, because women are not a politically amorphous elective body, but we have a political conviction. And only such classification, when women can run at 46%, as it seems now, has made it possible to choose. However, no single woman can be assured that she will collect all the votes of the female electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u29	Thank you. Comrade Petty Officer, here comes Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u30	We believe that there are key reasons why women cannot be applied in the same way as men, especially in prejudices and stereotypes that need to be bridged in everyday life. Perhaps a change in the constitutional provision will not mean much. It is a hint to all of us that we are aware of this; otherwise, it means, in fact, this kind of necessity to meet either in education, in education, in socialization, to take this into account, that ensuring equality between men and women is an additional quality. And in Novi Slovenija we did not choose to set up a women's choice place because this law or constitution would stipulate or the electoral law, but because we believe that this will also create certain better positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u31	Thank you. Comrade Jelinczych, one minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The equality of women has been in Slovenia since 1945. Today, some would say that now some women who have forgotten the gender difference also want equality. It's important to know that they're genders, but they're different. It appears that the United List and some others have reached a climax with this amendment, the culmination of action in this mandate. Some others would say, however, that it clearly indicates that there's some kind of penis deficiency syndrome, as Freud would say. I think there's something in both. Finally, on the one hand, we go to the legal setting of quotas and on the other hand we notice that some faculties are completely feminized. It is interesting and strange here that then in the National Assembly some - who might say, what frustrated persons, I will not say this - that they then build their political capital on laws that actually have no weight.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u33	I'm closing the discussion on the chapters. The draft constitutional law will be decided in full by the National Assembly in accordance with the meeting's timetable tonight in the context of the vote starting at 21.15 p.m. It probably does not need to be emphasized that a majority is needed to adopt such a constitutional law. This concludes this agenda item. In a few minutes we will move on to the 3rd item of the agenda, this is to consider a proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u34	We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL OF A ESTABLISHMENT LAW REFERRED TO IN AMENDMENT 14. Member of the Constitution, this is also linked to constitutional and audit issues. The proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution was submitted by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the assembly. You've received the report. We will hear the views of the parliamentary groups, then discuss the sections and vote on the articles and tonight at 21.15 p.m. I don't think it's necessary to remind myself again - are you so kind and listen to me for a moment? At 21:15 p.m., we will be deciding by a two-thirds majority of all Members and Members, I think we need to remind ourselves more than once, and remind your colleagues of this, because it seems to me that this has been under-emphasized in this regard and that unwittingly it could happen that some of the constitutional changes, although we would like to, would not have been accepted due to the absence. And I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to inform their colleagues and colleagues in due time in this regard. We are going to present the groups in the case of the Constitutional Act amending Article 14. Comrade Vojko Celigoj, you have the floor to present the views of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u35	Thank you again very much for your word. Dear colleagues, according to the World Health Organization, there are about 10% of the world's people with disabilities, with a specific figure of 610 million. One of the biggest problems, although not the only, is certainly the unemployment of the disabled. In Slovenia, the proportion of people with disabilities in 2003 was 11.5%, representing more than 11,000 people with disabilities in absolute numbers. The problem is the lack of education for people with disabilities, as 55% of unemployed people have only the first level of education. We conclude from these data that, despite the principle consensus on equality of all, the provisions in practice do not apply well. Equal access to employment is crucial for social inclusion. Every human being is born free and with the same rights and dignity and can contribute positively to the development of society within his means. We are aware that the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms and their full application are essential for the active participation of persons with disabilities and that the principle of equal opportunities constitutes a fundamental value that must be shared by all of us. We believe that it is always necessary to take advantage of the opportunity to raise awareness of the rights of persons with disabilities and to promote equal enjoyment of rights. And in this we see today's opportunity, despite the opposition of some that it is merely an unnecessary provision in the Constitution. We would add that, in our view, gender equality should also be taken into account as much as possible. This means that the needs of disabled women are different, even specific, from those of disabled men. In our view, much remains to be done in order to achieve equal inclusion of persons with disabilities in society. Intermediate obstacles can prove to be a fundamental obstacle to achieving the objectives. This requires a lot of investment in the introduction of technologies, both in communication and in the area of space regulation. This will actually alleviate the real obstacles that hinder the equal participation of people with disabilities in social life. We cannot say that people with disabilities are not well or well cared for, on the contrary, in the DeSUS Group of Members, we believe that we have exemplary legislation that seeks to enable people with disabilities to live a decent life. We do not see any reason, however, that although persons with disabilities as a special constitutional category are already defined in Article 52 of the Constitution, we do not ensure equality at an even more principled level of equality before the law in all areas. This, in our view, is a positive incentive for equal treatment of people with disabilities as citizens. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will therefore support the proposal for a constitutional law amending the Constitution concerning the equality of persons with disabilities. This will also bring it closer to the provisions of the European Constitution, which emphasises equal treatment of persons with disabilities or the prohibition of any discrimination based on disability. The Maltese Declaration on Disabled Persons also foresees development towards equal inclusion of disabled people as citizens, although we must stress at this point that we do not accept constitutional changes to meet international criteria, but because of ourselves and, of course, our fellow citizens, neighbours, acquaintances, fellow Ukrainians and all others, thereby allowing them to join society in a normal manner. Let us be aware that they certainly need, not mercy, but opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u36	Thank you very much. My colleague Ljubo Germič will present the position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. President, respectable colleagues, respectable colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution, which should also include the concept of 'disability' in the article on equality before the law. Although it is a proposal for a change already identified by the section of the Constitutional Commission in its partial report as indispensable, we will support it in the Liberal Democracy Chamber. Today there are about 600 million disabled people in the world. Each of us can become disabled at any time, and as the population grows old, many countries will experience an increased percentage of people with disabilities. The fact is that people with disabilities, both children, women and men, worldwide are deprived of basic human rights. They are often excluded from social life and discriminated against. The United Nations documents, in particular all six human rights conventions, include persons with disabilities, but the Member States of the United Nations have soon come to realize that general anti-discrimination rules, similar to our general article on non-discrimination in Article 14 of the Constitution, are insufficient for the effective and effective provision of equal opportunities for persons with disabilities. Special measures are often needed to effectively benefit persons with disabilities from the right to equal opportunities. Therefore, they have also begun to prepare a convention to ensure the protection and promotion of the human rights of persons with disabilities. In this regard, the European Parliament has also adopted a resolution calling on the Members of the United Nations to include at least 8 sets of rights of persons with disabilities in the future convention and to put the control mechanisms into place. The Madrid Declaration as a basic framework for disability policy has also made it clear that the principle of non-discrimination will only result in the actual social inclusion of persons with disabilities, together with positive measures. The proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution is consistent with European disability policy. The so-called anti-discrimination article of the 1999 Amsterdam Treaty, which includes the concept of disability, allows the European Union to take active action and to give initiatives to combat discrimination even in the event of disability. This article has made disabled persons in the European Union more visible and visible for the first time, as this article provides a legal basis for anti-discrimination rules of the European Union, while at the same time giving the disabled the opportunity to be more comprehensive and thoroughly involved in the more important general initiatives of the European Union. A number of European countries followed a more intensive European disability policy, as the articles on equality before the law of their constitutions included the concept of disability, such as Finland, Germany, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. This is to stress that they had before them the fact that it was not about regulating the rights of persons with disabilities, but about the application of the full civilisation principle of non-discrimination. The Republic of Slovenia should also have this in front of its eyes. Given that it is comparable to the most developed European countries with fairly good, positive measures of disability policy and the adoption of the law on disability organisations, it should also ensure satisfactory protection against discrimination, in particular because of its civilisational reputation. An additional reason to support the amendment of the Slovenian Constitution is the fact that the draft Constitution Treaty for Europe - the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, entitled "Equality" in an article entitled "No discrimination" - also prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability, which is exactly the same as the proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution. Given that a year of disabled people is behind us, which has warned us that rights and non-discrimination are guaranteed at the declaration level, while the actual proportions are completely different, Slovenia is almost no different than that of European standards and trends and thus shows that it truly supports the same opportunities for disabled people. Despite the concerns that we have had, in view of the expert group's opinion, that it may not be necessary to change the Constitution and that the objective of the proposed amendment is fully attainable already through a proper interpretation of the current constitutional provisions, we have decided in the majority that the concept of disability should be defined but specifically in Article 14 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u38	Thanks, buddy Germich. My colleague France Cukjat will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. True, people with disabilities are a population that needs special care. It's about people who can't be the same and can't have the same rights as they are. They must have more rights! If at the entrance of the building there is only one free parking place and a healthy driver and a wheelchair disabled are brought along, then probably it should not be the same, equal, but the disabled must have the right to park at the entrance. If it is a job invitation for a telephone operator, where it is a permanent sitting job and two candidates, one healthy and one legless, then I think he must have the right, the priority right of a disabled person. That's our client's point of view. And, of course, for this reason, mentioning the disabled and referring to their rights in this article and in this chapter, where the Constitution speaks generally of rights and non-discrimination, is not appropriate. Our constitution has and speaks of persons with disabilities, somewhere else, in Article 52. There says that the disabled person who deserves some benefits is some greater rights, saying that, in accordance with the law, the disabled have the right to training for work, children with disabilities the right to education and training for work and for life and that education and training of disabled persons is financed by public resources. Likewise, but there has been so much talk in this mandate, especially in the last year when we talked about the proposed amendment to the Constitution, a speech that should be extended and in the constitution, if we are already talking about the disabled and supplementing the Constitution, to supplement this Article and also to say that the disabled have the right to remedy the obstacles. This is said to be the case, all those condemned to reduce accessibility and barriers, the right to work and so on. This constitutional change does not mean anything new, it does not mean a plus for the disabled, because our amendments and our proposals have not been accepted, but if we are talking about the disabled and correcting the Constitution, we would define this by means of a constitutional positive shift in ensuring greater rights for people with disabilities than healthy people. More rights, I emphasise. But that's right. In particular, this mandate is often well-spoken, very well-spoken and very well expressed concern for affected groups of people, including patients, the elderly and the like. But when we come specifically to the issue of ensuring these things, suddenly we are without will. Suddenly we can't make that move. When we passed the Disability Act, we also said very well, we said a lot of nice things, but when we wanted to ensure that the disabled also had the priority right to work, the courage of this national assembly ran out. That is to say, where disabled people need our special care and need more rights, we don't give them them. However, because we have somehow committed ourselves in this mandate to supporting everything that is useful and supporting everything that is not harmful, and this change of constitution is not harmful - so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u40	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. Colleague Silva Montenegro will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u41	Mr President, well-welcome colleagues and colleagues. The Group of the United List of Social Democrats in the proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of equality before the law and says that in Slovenia everyone is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, irrespective of any other personal situation such as nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political and other belief, material state, birth, education, social situation and, of course, disability, supported. In the UK Group, we also see the Supplement as an additional constitutional basis for stressing equality before the law. The new understanding of disability places great emphasis on the fact that the social, modern state no longer derives from the identification of disability as an individual as a protection facility, i.e. from a disabled person as an entity in a social environment, so full cooperation and equality must be ensured for the disabled in society, including the prohibition of the existence of any discriminatory provisions in positive law and, on the other hand, ensuring that functional restrictions on the part of the disabled person are respected. It seems important to us that this proposal has been discussed in all organizations, societies, civil organisations, non-governmental organisations for many years and has been reached with almost complete consensus in this area and that the word 'disability' is inserted into the initial articles of the Constitution, 14, which places more emphasis and emphasis on the relationship of persons with disabilities with regard to human rights. It also feels like stepping up the state and state authorities and their attitude towards the problem of disability and the resolution of all cases relating to disability. It is important to know that the European Disability Forum agrees with this that the change of our Constitution is being followed and considers that we are one of the leading countries in this area in the European Union, as the disability protection area has seen a fundamental shift in the past 30 years, and in particular the thinking of individuals and society, which is primarily based on the mercy and alleged disability of persons with disabilities, which only needs to be taken care of. The situation has improved so much that today we can talk about the integration of people with disabilities in society, and this idea is based on the fact that people with disabilities have the right to family and life in the normal living environment, so that they can naturally live in a country with all their instruments. To achieve the necessary preparations for independent living and training and adaptation to the environment at all levels, disabled persons are quite different in reality as it has been so far. Rehabilitation, educational programs have changed, increasingly training the disabled for independent, independent, normal life. This has, of course, been adapted to various services, the development of technical tools and the development of additional various means to promote a more pleasant life for people with disabilities. Major changes in policy and mentality can be summed up in some of the key developments that have led to today's proposal. The first step was taken in 1981 when the International Year of Disabled Persons established the password "perfect cooperation and equality". The period 1983/1992 was declared by the United Nations to be a decade of disabled persons, in which the standard rules for equal opportunities were adopted. These have been very active in practice, with a number of concrete measures for implementation in the everyday environment. The country is responsible for the preparation and effectiveness of disability inclusion programmes in society, as it has the opportunity to do so through the framework programmes and incentive instruments system. Much has already been done, the law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language has been passed, thus improving the opportunity for all those who have not had this option to receive adequate education, as well as the possibility of professional inclusion in society. A law on disability organisations has been adopted, which in fact legitimizes the 18th Standard Rule on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, which discusses the organisation and registration of persons with disabilities. The Act on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted. I am pleased that so far the proposal to amend the Constitution has been supported by all parliamentary groups, but we must be aware that not only words, rules, laws, guidelines are enough in life. The most important thing is what we as individuals really do and how we act and act in a concrete situation. Of course, it is also very important what constitutes the basis or general conditions and rights of the disabled who define the basic ways and possibilities of their lives. We therefore support the amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution in the United Social Democrats' Group of Members, so that disability will be explicitly mentioned among the reasons for the prohibition of discrimination, and in this way also to supplement Article 52 more substantively and in principle, which is to be somewhat more fragmented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u42	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. Comrade Janez Podobnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u43	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Article 14 of the Constitution applies to the prohibition of any discrimination, i.e. discrimination on the grounds of disability. The consideration of the proposal for an amendment to this Article has thus always raised the question of the need and the meaning of this amendment. In the opinion of the section, it was also possible to identify some opinions that the general article on non-discrimination was sufficient. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have assessed that this claim from a legal point of view is correct, but we believe that we need to see and address the issue more broadly. In practice, legal acts and programming documents that explicitly do not contain prohibitions of discriminatory treatment due to disability have no positive consequences. In Slovenia, the protection of people with disabilities is given a lot of attention, both by the country and its authorities as well as by the social partners and by very active NGOs. In addition to the Constitution, there are many other laws and regulations in Slovenia that regulate disability issues in various areas of health care, insurance, social security, education, education and training for work, employment and rights from pension and disability insurance. We estimate that the awareness is that it is a complex problem that can only be addressed through an interdisciplinary approach, i.e. by the active action of various actors in all the areas involved, in Slovenia at a high level. In Europe, our country has even one leading role in the field of disability policy, but this does not mean that there is no more to be done. We agree with the proposaler that protection against discrimination needs to be regulated more legally. The example of some other European countries also speaks for this. The fight against social exclusion represents one of the European Union's strategic objectives in the first decade of the 21st century. The European Union is aware of the importance of universal awareness of the discriminatory circumstances faced by persons with disabilities and their aspirations to participate in all spheres of social, economic, political and cultural life. One of the key points that prompted decisions in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to support the present proposal to amend the Constitution, which reads as follows, "There is social inclusion in non-discrimination in relation to positive measures." In our view, it is also a vision of the European Union in the field of disability policy and is enshrined in the Madrid Declaration. We also assess in the Slovenian People's Party that, with the support of the amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution, we also show our support for the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. In these days, the adoption of the so-called European Constitution is a very topical topic. In the Slovenian People's Party, we advocate its adoption as quickly as possible. We know that an enlarged Europe needs new rules. We estimate that the European Constitution must know how to answer certain questions, including the question, as an example, which values unite us. Surely also values that encourage non-discriminatory treatment of persons with disabilities. The European Union, through the European Constitution in this area, has responded to the question raised and has taken an important step in its efforts to ensure the successful social inclusion of people with disabilities. Let me get this straight. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we support the provision of equal opportunities for people with disabilities. The proposal for a constitutional law relating to the amendment or amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution will therefore be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer, do you have a word now? I understand. No offense. [[...]] Just a minute, let me get this straight. My colleague Barovic said he'd give it up So, colleague Peca, you want to have a word. [[...]] Please. Then I apologize to Comrade Petty Officer, my colleague Peca is in front of you. I had previously misunderstood the gesture of a fellow member of the SNS delegation. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u45	Your Honors are here! My colleague Barovic is obviously a little confused, but that's another story. I would like to talk about the article proposed by the proposers, amending Article 14, where we should add the word 'disability' to the pretext or again under the illusion that once we add it to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we will change everything at once. It creates, at least from the speech of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, the impression that if the founder adopts this provision, then everyone in our society will be pleased. We do not share this opinion in the National Party, but we will nevertheless support constitutional changes in this area. However, we would like to see at least a few of those who are watching us get a real picture of what this will mean, and, on the other hand, what our relationship has been so far, namely the attitude of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the question of the disabled. At the beginning of this mandate, in 2000, we proposed to the Parliamentary Group that a national assembly set up a mother labour force to resolve disability issues. Let me inform you that this so-called esteemed National Assembly rejected the proposal of the Slovenian National Party and said that the issues of disabled people in our society do not have the weight to create a special labour force. We also proposed a law in the National Party that touched on both disabled persons and on disability issues, which would enable people with disabilities to be better able to stay and better integrate into society. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has vehemently rejected the law and said that this is not necessary. The mother's working body, the agricultural committee, since you did not want to accept the disability committee, has also rejected the law that we offered in the procedure. And although the law by its contents was very short, it allowed people with impaired vision, either completely or partially, to obtain their help, of course if they wanted, it was a guide dog and have access to all public spaces with it. But the government of the Republic of Slovenia said: no, the disabled do not need this. The mother's working body said: no, the disabled don't need it. Only later, which I am very happy to do, did this national assembly say that the government was wrong and the mother’s working body was wrong, and the national assembly then made a wise move to uphold the law. Further on, when we talk about how the mentioned word play in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the addition of Article 14 with one word, i.e. 'disability', will help to facilitate the inclusion of persons with disabilities in everyday life, to increase the rights of persons with disabilities within our society, let me remind you, dear fellows and colleagues, how many of you are here, there are not three months of this, since we have been on the proposal of the Government or, I apologize, since you, on a proposal from the Government, imposed a tax burden on disabled companies in one part of the tax policy. Does it seem moral to you that today all speakers, representatives of the parliamentary groups, speak the truth about the need to make it easier to get involved in everyday life, and three months ago we are taxing disabled companies again? Is that moral? And of course the feeling - I don't want to share it, as you obviously want to create all the other Members - that we will, with one word in the constitution, not bring in anything altogether, while with another hand you accept, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the new tax burden also for disabled companies, on a proposal from the Government, you do not want to adopt legislation and on your own already you do not want to have a parent working body that deals with this matter. It's always been an excuse not to need it, we'll do it another time and things like that. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, there is a duality. Now that the end of the term is near, when you all try to be kind to all categories of our society, a so-called constitutional amendment is adopted, which also includes disability in Article 14, as if Article 14, paragraph 2 does not say that we are all the same before the law. And let me introduce you to one more fact that you should know, of course, and I believe that you know it, but you do not want to say that even today in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that is, in the highest legal act of our country, we have a special article about the rights of persons with disabilities. What will change if the National Assembly or the National Assembly adopt this constitutional change? Nothing more than that there will be a parliamentary group, a political party in the context of the election meetings for the National Assembly with a finger pointed to the air and said: on our proposal, we have included the disabled in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, at the same time, this parliamentary group, the party, will forget to say that we have re-taxed the disabled in the mandate to their companies, taking various incentives and substantive things. The national party will, of course, join in some of the existing ones, which means that we will support the proposal for constitutional changes, but let me remind you that the National Party has proposed all those things that you have objected to, and that you are the ones that have made the inclusion of disabled persons in society easier. Especially in the form of a re-tax burden on disabled companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u46	Now he has the word of his colleague Drobnič, and we will also conclude a presentation of the views of the members of the groups. New Slovenia's emissary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we already have in Article 52 of the current Constitution a provision that disabled persons have special protection in life and work training. This was also, in fact, that dilemma, that sentence in the constitution, whether article 14 should also be amended in order to prevent discrimination. If, in the manner set out in Article 52, there is positive discrimination through individual laws; that is to say, there are somehow substitutes for the shortcomings brought by life, injury, nature of disease and other things, but it has been somehow suggested that there is still some area in which people with disabilities may be at risk of discrimination. It is therefore a message value that the principle of non-discrimination must be applied in all areas of life. In the context of Article 14, the concept of education, which states that on the basis of education, should not be based on discrimination, but, on the basis of education, different situations are being created and should therefore be stopped in this concept and excluded from the text when amending the Constitution. However, it has shown, therefore, that the existing legislation leaves some doubt that this provision is being introduced and that the concept of disability is also being introduced. In this sense, the Group also supports it. At the same time, we believe that this provision is not sufficient. It is necessary to promote our consciousness and desire and to implement this constitutional matter in laws and in our everyday lives. In Novi Slovenije we proposed a law on the promotion of employment of people with disabilities. However, the ruling coalition then rejected the law, but then proposed to adopt the law in almost the same text, which we also supported. Unfortunately, some of the provisions have not been implemented, but it is likely that there will be time; here, too, the disabled will show where the crack occurred. Discrimination is the exclusion of disabled companies from public tenders, which happened at the Ministry of the Economy. Discrimination in some sense is also a high rate of unemployment, an enormously high rate of unemployment for people with disabilities compared to the general unemployment rate; the unemployment rate for persons with disabilities is at least three times higher than those without these barriers. Last but not least, there is a record of unsuspecting disabled persons and less involvement in training, but in particular in the professional rehabilitation of disabled workers, including in some sense discrimination. Therefore, a communication is made through the amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution that there is still much work to be done in the field of implementation into legislation and everyday life. Therefore, in Nova Slovenija we are also committed to enacting a law on the integration of persons with disabilities, where the remaining mechanisms of positive discrimination, positive application for the equality of opportunities for people with disabilities in society, would be established. We do not want and cannot achieve that the disabled will be equal, but our firm determination in New Slovenia is that they must have equal opportunities to work, to school, to live, to establish a family, to any position in society. And to end, a bitter experience that also touches our implementation, thought and reality, into life. It's a papal event when there was a mockery at the expense of an old man and at the expense of his illness. In this case, it was not only an insult to the statesman who helped the most to the independence of the state or to the insult of the head of the Catholic Church and the Catholics, but, above all, a morally unacceptable act toward the elderly who are sick. And making fun of it is not acceptable. And what is expected to happen when you are present at such an event: manifestly abandon it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u48	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are only three of them on the list: colleague Potrč, colleague of Montenegro and colleague of Sonja Areh. You want a word? First, Comrade Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much. 42 Members and Members have summarised the initiative of disabled organisations to supplement Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which establishes equality before the law, specifically mention disability as regards this equality. Since I was among these signatories, I am pleased that the Constitutional Commission has adopted this proposal, and I hope and believe that it will be adopted today by the National Assembly. In doing so, I would like to point out that the applicants, including themselves, agree that disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia is given special attention. In order to identify the special protection and rights of persons with disabilities, central legislation is in place, organised for this purpose with significant resources, the wide autonomy of the functioning of disability organisations, which are generally designed as societies with special status and special concerns of the State, the situation and rights of persons with disabilities, as far as possible, are constantly adapted to new needs and requirements, as well as to new social knowledge. For many years now, the regulation of the situation of persons with disabilities has been guaranteed at least on the average of Europe and the world, and we are not making any illusions about what will be substantially changed by changing the Constitution. Nevertheless, it seems necessary and necessary to supplement the Constitution. It also means and guarantees explicitly equal human rights and freedoms to the constitutional level and to the explicit constitutional norm and the obligation to introduce and introduce into future studies such a policy and practice as we are already implementing in Slovenia. And for a large population of people with disabilities in our country, this is undoubtedly of great importance. Such a constitutional norm not only means the obligation of the State but also stresses the constitutional importance of their own activities, and it is very large. It stresses the importance of the activities of all those who contribute to the activities of disabled persons, as well as their resources in the form of grants and other forms. And this is also an important activity that is highlighted in particular. Finally, the adoption of the proposed supplement, which is also legally indisputable, also means an important positive addition to the Constitution, such as - to say what - some form of a symbolic gift given by the National Assembly to persons with disabilities on last year's disability year. Furthermore, it fully complies with the proposal for a constitution for Europe in its II-21. the non-discrimination article specifically emphasises any non-discrimination on the basis of a type of circumstance and in particular stresses disability between these circumstances. The proposed amendment to Article 14 of the Constitution is therefore a European decision. I expect and believe that we will accept it with satisfaction and with a large majority of the votes of all Members and Members tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of niggers. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that it may have been somewhat exposed to the fact that, in this mandate period, we have, as Mr Pece has said, put an end to the Commission, which has dealt with the particular problem, the functioning of persons with disabilities and disability organisations. I must say that this was in the context of the rationalisation and organisation and the special part of the National Assembly, but that this was not at all at the expense of the smaller and more substantive and in-depth debate and the effects of the Health Committee itself, the social and the disabled of the National Assembly, because a great deal of the documents that we have dealt with, I think, have actually shown that we have devoted much more attention to this issue and that it is possible that we have devoted so much more attention to disability issues than ever in this mandate. We are probably left with a number of tasks that we will have to perform in the next term; from the advocacy of mentally ill individuals, in particular the part that relates to the constitutional decision of the law on unfair procedure and advocacy, but I deeply hope that in the short term we will resolve this area in one way, as we have done so successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u52	Sonja Areh Lavrič still wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable. The initiative to amend Article 14 of the Constitution was given by national disability organisations. He also unanimously supported the Council of Disability Organisations, as well as the European Disability Forum following the last study visit by representatives of Slovenian Disability Organisations in Brussels. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not reject the possibility of people with disabilities achieving the same rights as other people and thus participate equally in everyday life and thus take on all the rights and obligations arising therefrom. With such a constitutional change, Slovenia would become one of the leading countries in the field of disability. It also follows in line with the transitional European Constitution, which will contain more binding guidelines on non-discrimination based on disability. It is right that Slovenia is also pursuing European objectives in this area, as we have been following it so blindly everywhere. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that it makes sense, irrespective of the general norm, which states in the said Article of the Constitution, that the same human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed to all - that is to say, to the disabled - yes, we create such constitutional bases and measures that would explicitly dictate equal cooperation and treatment of persons with disabilities in all spheres of life. Despite the general constitutional prohibition of discrimination, people with disabilities are discriminated against in certain situations. Therefore, we do not oppose the proposed amendment to explicitly include persons with disabilities in the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I conclude the discussion on sections or articles and move on to a full debate on the proposal for a constitutional law. Since time is limited, I would suggest that we are not long. My friend Patche wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u55	In fact, only correction or explanation for those who misinterpret words. This National Assembly, however you turn around, has not adopted the proposal of the Slovenian National Party to set up a stand-alone commission, the home working body of the National Assembly, which would address the problem of persons with disabilities and which could translate the problem of persons with disabilities into a legislative process. So, at the final stage in the form of various acts, which is most important, in the form of laws. So that laws reflect or that laws reflect solutions to the questions of the disabled. There's another matter I'd like to point out. At the presentation of the views of one of the parliamentary groups, it was said that these constitutional changes were a gift to the disabled. Of course, it is very funny that the gift to the disabled comes just before the present, so before we finish the work of the National Assembly. In doing so, I say that I will express myself in the same way as the speaker before me that about this kind of gift people with disabilities in the constitution are eleven, twelve years old, so in Article 53, but what if this gift is so that when it opens, there is nothing in it. And on my behalf, I object to this kind of work of the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt various beautiful standards that are not later reflected in the content. According to my assessment and assessment of the Slovenian National Parties, the National Assembly should primarily accept material things which would later be reflected in individual categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u56	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. We'll make a decision at 9:15 tonight. I'd like to remind you once again that we have to make a decision. We have to be 60 or more. Until then, I am concluding a debate on this law. However, the next constitutional law will continue the discussion at 12.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u57	It is time for us to continue the meeting of the National Assembly. We're at 4. POINTS OF THE DAY, IN THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT PROPOSAL 50. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for this constitutional law was submitted by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the assembly. You've received the report. As in both previous cases, we will hear presentations of the positions of the parliamentary groups, discuss sections of the constitutional law and the draft constitutional law in full, and vote at 21.15 p.m. Mr Lenko will first present the position of the DeSUS Group. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are very pleased to support the proposal of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly that at its 17th meeting it has considered and supported the proposal for a constitutional law amending the 50th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the procedure for amending Article 50 of the Constitution, which we started at the beginning of 2001, has been completed. In our Group of Members, we respect all the decisions made so far by Members and Members, or the willingness of all Members of the Group, who in all the processes of complementing our proposal have also cooperated constructively with their complements, so that the proposal for a constitutional law for a final decision is built up in a comprehensive and convincing manner, as this is the result of the joint work of Members and Members of this Assembly. The proposed addition to the constitutional provision on the right to a pension will undoubtedly increase confidence in the legal and social state and increase the sense of security during the period of age. By explicitly including the right to a pension in the first paragraph of Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it will be provided at constitutional level that the State must lay down the right to a pension by law. There are different interpretations and ambiguities in the public and in the profession, as has also been shown by the debate at the meetings of the Constitutional Commission, on what the content of the concept of the constitutional right to social security is. We were therefore convinced in our Group that the content of that concept should be explicitly defined, in this respect, that the right to social security also includes the right to a pension. On behalf of our parliamentary group, I call on all Members and Members of the National Assembly, or all Members of Parliament, who have actively participated in all procedures to supplement Article 50 of the Constitution of Slovenia, to support this joint project, both for the benefit of the current generation of older people and future young generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs will present the views of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u60	Mr. President, thank you very much. Respectable, Your Honor. As I said before, constitutional forms or provisions in the Constitution as the highest social contracts have an important place in every society, can guide the functioning of a society and thus shape its intentions. The purpose of the social consensus in Slovenia is, of course, clear with regard to adopted policies, which are also being implemented. We are formed as a society that does not allow for radical conflict between generations, and a society that also values the ideal of a balanced social state. Complementing the Constitution at work, when we say that the Constitution already says that citizens do not have the right to social security under the conditions laid down in the laws, with a delivery, including the right to a pension, in essence is not necessary. This is where the expert committee is to be drawn. The debate was thorough, it was clear that the right to social security is undoubtedly realized through a social security scheme, so it is clear in international social security law that social security insurance is within the framework or that the right to social security is exercised through social insurance. This has been made clear, and it has also been said, that there will be no change in this context, so in this sense we are regulating this fairly normally. However, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will still support the constitutional change through such a delivery from - for us not important - a reason, because we believe that such an addition can increase confidence in the social state, so that it can increase the sense of social security for citizens and citizens. If that is the intention of the country, which applies it with its institutions and policies, it is right to say with delivery that such a policy is committed to the future, irrespective of the political forces' relations in the country. If we are in modern social-liberal societies, if we are all confronted with the eerie shortcomings of our societies, from crime to abuse of social benefits, the common sense is in this last statement that social liberalism undermines human responsibility, because it should stress rights at the expense of duty. In fact, there is an inflation of rights, almost such a stage that they become almost useless. On a formal level, of course, such a judgment does not hold. For the rights he places in the forefront of liberalism are necessarily based on obligations and obligations towards others. If the criticism of wider social liberalism is, therefore, extremely unfair because of this fact, but at the same time, we must not close our eyes to see another evidence appearing in all modern societies in the inflation of speaking about rights; this is the most dangerous phenomenon of society at this moment, this is the subordination of the language of the economy. Fortunately, a fairly reformed liberal market in the so-called social market rests the duties of people in an active social position to those who are passive and disadvantaged. And since this social commitment is also a commitment of Liberal Democracy in Slovenia, it is worth trusting over 500 thousand recipients of various types of pensions from the public system to strengthen. Why? Clearly, Dr. Grega Strban, who, as one of the representatives of the expert committee when he introduced us to his opinion, said that the fear of the proponents was understandable. The old age pension is reduced in several ways: by extending the pension age, by increasing the age, by a lower dose percentage, by means of a method of coordination. And this pension, etc., says there are also proposals from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which you probably know, we all know, the share of the passive population in comparison to the active population tending to the benefit of the active population - is that the public pension should be as low as possible and should be transferred to voluntary private insurance as much as possible. Mr Expert says this is not acceptable and Slovenia is fortunately resisting this time well and successfully. So we will support this proposal with the desire to increase the confidence of citizens and citizens in such political orientations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u61	Thank you very much, colleague Krebs. A colleague of France Tsukati now has the floor. He will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. You have the floor, mate Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. This is the third change in the Constitution on today's agenda, which sounds nice, but it has no content. Because social security is really an important issue, an important area of the country's operation, if, of course, this country goes to the social state. If we want to introduce something new into our constitution, which would certainly be necessary, then we should accept the notion that social security covers two areas: not only the area of social assistance, financial assistance, which may include pensions, if the pension is not the result of past work, but also social security is the other side, that is social care. The European Social Charter, adopted by the Council of Europe in 1996, i.e. eight years ago, makes this clear. Article 13 deals with social assistance as well as with the assistance provided by the means of subsistence, both unemployed and retired persons or those in need of assistance. In Article 14, however, it specifically discusses the right to social security services and discusses the duty of the State to organise such services, connects them with voluntary and other humanitarian organisations and organises a service that also directly assists those who are in need. I have already mentioned the case once that there is a number of pensioners or destitutes who live alone, who have enough resources or resources to survive, but they have no one to go to the store once a week and bring them things, no one to ventilate the apartment, no one to maybe, if they're immobile, even bathe and so on. And it is precisely this novelty in the notion of Europe's social security that manual, physical assistance, not just financial, is what we should introduce into our understanding of social security. That would be new, and that would be a step forward in our constitution. That is why we have proposed that the article should not only be supplemented by the right to a pension, it can be complemented, we will support it, it is a harmless novelty, but we wanted to introduce another quality supplement, according to our article: "The citizens have the right to social security, including the right to a pension, and the right to social care." I'm afraid you turned it down, too. Unfortunately, we note that in all these changes to the Constitution, which we are considering today and will accept them, there is only one fine word with a fig in our pocket. Nothing new, no new quality step. If only we had taken into account the Geneva Convention on Human Rights, which speaks, not only does the worker have the right to pay, but he has the right to such a salary that he and his family can survive with. With us, unfortunately, many wages are not enough for the worker and his family to survive. I know regular full-time employees, who also receive social assistance to survive. Sadly, some pensions are not such that a couple who have only one pension could live with dignity or dignity. This would apply from the Geneva Convention on Human Rights to our constitution! That would be a qualitative step forward, but it's not. As I said, our principle is, we will not oppose any things that are not harmful. And this addition to the Constitution is not harmful, nor is it beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u63	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. The next person who has the floor is colleague Miran Potč. He will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Group of Members and Members, including many of them from the United List of Social Democrats, have proposed that Article 50 of the Constitution be supplemented by constitutional guarantees of the right to a pension in addition to social security. The National Assembly has adopted such a proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure at its 18th meeting in November 2003 with 72 votes in favour and 12 against. All Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats voted in favour of such a proposal. On the basis of the decision of the National Assembly to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure, on 13 May the Constitutional Commission adopted, with the necessary two-thirds majority for and one vote against, a proposal for a constitutional law proposing that the first paragraph of Article 50 of the Constitution should be supplemented by the text being read, I quote: "The citizens have the right to social security, including the right to a pension under the conditions laid down by law." The Group of Ambassadors of the United List of Social Democrats will support such a proposal. The pension is only an exceptional social right and, as a rule, the pension is the right of work, on the basis of the contributions paid, within the framework of the pension scheme governed by the State, which includes not only the rights of the insured, but also the rights of their spouses and children under certain legal conditions. In particular, it includes the right that pensions are also dependent on intergenerational solidarity, so that the current generations, with their work-based contributions, provide part of the funds for pension payments as well. Without respect for these principles, the pension of present generations could become increasingly questionable. The inclusion of the right to a pension as one of the specific rights in the constitutional text for this exercise of this right also constitutionally guarantees and eliminates any uncertainty that the pension must also provide social security. This is important for increasing confidence in the social state, which the Republic of Slovenia is based on Article 2 of its Constitution. The sense of social security of one quarter of citizens and citizens is therefore of such importance in our belief that it is worth supplementing Article 50 of the Constitution. Not to ensure that some new rights are guaranteed in view of today's situation, but to ensure that it is undeniable that the State must guarantee such rights. In the context of increasing social rights, which, unfortunately, we also witness in our country, with increasing emphasis on the individual's responsibility to ensure safe age through various forms of voluntary pension insurance, which is welcome and proper, this should be encouraged, but not again at the cost of abolishing the insurance system based on paid contributions, mutual solidarity and the country's guarantee. For all this reason, the constitutional protection of the right to a pension, which must provide social security on the basis of work, is a value that is worthy of being enshrined in the Constitution. Therefore, we do not consider these proposed changes to be a change that means nothing. It may not mean anything with regard to today's situation, it does not mean new rights, but it does mean that the right to a pension from work will not change. So that one day no one will find anyone who thinks of it or decides that, because of the financial difficulties of the pension state, it will reduce or implement a system in which only those who will have their own resources saved because of the favourable situation in the work will be able to live from the pension. The proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 50 of the Constitution will therefore be supported in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. We believe that this supplement is necessary, important, to consolidate the social security of pensioners and social cohesion in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u65	Thank you, Comrade Potsch. Mr Rokavec now has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The amendment of Article 50 of the Constitution is between the members of the Constitutional Commission and the expert group in addition to the advocates, including those who have been slightly detained or detained until this amendment, in particular with regard to the sense or need for such a change. In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the proposed amendment to Article 50 of the Constitution, which defines the right to a pension, constitutes a more change in the direction of a declaratory nature. Despite the well-founded question of whether the current change is formally necessary, as many experts point out, we believe that new demographic trends and consequently new developments in the pension system should be taken into account. The section members assessed - and with their opinion we agreed in our party - that the original amendment was not the most appropriate and appropriate. In the Slovenian People's Party, we proposed the following wording for supplementing Article 50 of the Constitution: "The citizens have the right to social security under the conditions laid down by law, including the right to a pension." The Constitutional Commission has adopted this very similar position, which provides for the right to social security, including the right to a pension, which is also the subject of a bill of constitutional law that we are deciding on today. All European pension schemes face changed circumstances and reforms, which are trying to adapt. The current trend is in decline in most European countries, as well as in Slovenia. Given the importance of birth from the point of view of population ageing as the source of the increase in the active population, the situation is all the more encouraging. Demographic trends are changing dramatically, the use of pensions is increasing, among other things, a deterioration in the ratio between the active and inactive or maintained share of the population. The difference between revenue and expenditure is increasing, mainly in a negative direction, to a level of expenditure. The ageing population is a trend, both in Slovenia and in the majority of the developed world. Such a situation must also be adequately addressed. Efforts will be needed to underpin an intergenerational consensus that will help to resolve the problem that is increasingly pressing on the basis of the above-mentioned facts. In the Slovenian People's Party, we advocate the view that the oldest generation must be provided with as carefree years as possible with a stable pension system. It is important to be aware of the changing demographic trends and to note the emerging circumstances, and we believe that one of the ways is also through such proposed changes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased to note that, with the addition of Article 50 of the Constitution, we also complement the State's commitment in the Constitution with the provision and right to state pension for all those citizens who were unable to earn a decent pension. This is, of course, a constitutional confirmation, ensuring that all citizens and citizens have a safe age. The proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 50 of the Constitution is therefore acceptable to the Slovenian People's Party and will be fully supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Barovic will now present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, followed by colleague Zupan, and we will end by presenting our views. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable five colleagues and ten colleagues in the National Assembly! Accurately calculated, this is, of course, also the attitude towards what we are talking about, but good. In the Slovenian National Party, we have made it clear and clear that we support the addition of Article 50 of the Constitution and will insist, of course, on the occasion of the remark, you are probably accustomed and forgive me if I repeat a colleague who is no longer with us, that when a proposal has been made to add the category of social care to this amendment, you have not accepted or rejected it. We have, as always in the Slovenian National Party, quite a few opinions submitted by the expert group submitted by Dr. Ivan Kristan, which were submitted by Dr. Grega Strban from the Faculty of Law and so on. Of course, the views of experts are different from that of politics or the same. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the category of social security is weak in Article 50. Also weak, I will repeat again, with the lack of social care and the missing pension. Finally, political and economic changes in this country have brought about various possible games that would have arisen if some categories were not also constitutionally secured, unlike those mentioned earlier, the category of pension is still needed. But in the Slovenian National Party we also assess that this category is so much more important because we will have to supplement the pension law as soon as possible because it is not good. The Pension Act excludes a number of difficult categories that workers in the Republic of Slovenia have and could otherwise be retired under different conditions. This is not what anyone in this country thinks, but if he thinks about it, of course he does not hope to say it out loud. And it will be necessary to know for once that you are a worker, that I will only speak from my places, that the mine deserves different conditions for retirement, that a worker in a difficult industry deserves different conditions for retirement and that a worker in a public administration, wherever he is, deserves different conditions for retirement, which, of course, is not and will not run a word until the pension category is introduced and guaranteed in the constitution. The transition of 12 years has brought a lot of changes, about which we estimate in the Slovenian National Party that it is necessary to protect them. And at this moment, we see only the possibility of securing it by supplementing Article 50 and, of course, calling on all colleagues and colleagues who are up to a professional solution to start with an immediate and possible amendment of pension legislation. I would no longer, Mr President, because there is something small left for us, so that those who wish to express their views please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u69	See, I do not wish to justify the absence of our colleagues and colleagues, but I would like to clarify that we have had a long and very comprehensive debate on these constitutional changes within the Constitutional Commission. A consensus has been established on the adoption of these constitutional supplements and the rapidness of this consensus, probably because of the need for controversy between colleagues and colleagues, because everything has been said. Thus, it is necessary to see in this sense that this moment of less interest in the debate itself is possible, because it was comprehensive and lasted for three years. Please, colleague Zupanova, you are the last of the representatives of the Members' groups of the New Slovenia Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Group of Members and Members, with a proposal to amend Article 50 of the Constitution, wants the right to a pension to be regarded as a constitutional right or as one of the fundamental human rights and freedoms. The current 50th Article lays down the right to social security. It is true that this provision does not explicitly state that citizens have the right to a pension, but the notion of social security after a general understanding of the extent of the right to a pension also has the right to health insurance, unemployment insurance, parental assistance, child allowances and also housing. The proposed amendment seeks to separate the right to a pension from the right to social security. The right to social security is intended to constitute a broader framework and therefore the applicants want to explicitly highlight the right to a pension as a benefit arising from contributions to the past work. It is understandable that such a proposal cannot be opposed because it does not bear any ill effects, but as such it does not bring any special benefits. The fact is that, because of such provisions, no citizen or citizen will receive an extra tolar of pension because, as such provisions are not directly enforceable and a law is needed. Thus, it is not a matter of any special quality enrichment, but rather of a desire that would give the applicants the feeling that they have only done something about pensioners and pensions, in fact in order to resolve their responsibilities in some way with regard to pensions. Such efforts are certainly justified, but they should also be expressed in actions. We cannot help but see that the formula for increasing pensions has been changed in the first few years of the mandate. When pensions were to be increased, the formula was changed and there was an increase in pensions later and by a lower percentage than usual. There is great dissatisfaction among people, and that is why such a beautiful addition should at least make it feel that something has been done. Applicants state that already in existing legislation regulating pension insurance, a solution that provides social security in the form of a state pension for those who have not been in a working relationship. Such a solution constitutes an explicit component based on the status of the citizen. This means that this so-called state pension derives from the status of a citizen, but provided that the applicant has 30 years of permanent residence in Slovenia after 15 years of life, this is in fact an exclusion condition for all those Slovenian citizens who have returned from exile. It is therefore not insignificant to expect that the amendment of Article 50 of the Constitution, which explicitly introduces the right to a pension, would nullify such a condition. This would be a real contribution that would at least bring satisfaction to the Mariner of our emigrant who returned to his homeland, if not to the other, that he is equal to the other citizens. In our Group of Members, we strive not only to remain at the declaration level, but to make the most of our actual lives for the pensioners and to ensure that there are no excessive and criminal differences between them. That is why we are also critical, if you want, until this year's holiday supplement for pensioners. The law provides that the allowance for recreation should be adjusted by the same percentage each year as the annual leave regression received by the employees, and that the workers’ regress is increased by 4.3% this year, while the regress to the users of exceptional pensions has increased by 12%. These are too many differences because the majority of pensioners are not satisfied, and the changes to the Constitution in Article 50 are not what would be a great achievement in the direction of greater confidence in the majority of pensioners. They're just some kind of nothing that doesn't hurt or benefit. In our parliamentary group, in New Slovenia, we will not oppose changes in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u71	We are moving on to a debate on the sections or articles of the draft constitutional law. Which one of those on the list who's in the hall wants a word? Nobody. Okay. Then I will ask the same question about the debate on the proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. No one, either. I'm closing the debate. At 21:00 and 15 p.m., we will first decide on all three proposals for a constitutional law. Once again, I would like to point out for the last time today that constitutional changes will not be adopted unless 60 or more Members and Members vote for them. The next item on the agenda, starting at 13:00 and 55 minutes, will be the 13th item of the agenda and the second reading of the proposal for a law on the recognition of values and education, and I interrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u72	Good-bye, everyone. We're on our way to work. We're on our way to 13. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on the recognition and value of education. The bill was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council, and I welcome among us the representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I invite Dr. Lučko Lorbar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members, the proposed law will systematically and legally replace in Slovenia the system of nostration governed by the law on nostration abroad of acquired school certificates. It was adopted in 1972 and has become increasingly difficult to apply due to its terminology and internationally inadequate solutions in recognition procedures and could even pose an obstacle to academic mobility in the coming years. The basis for drafting the new law was the international conventions ratified by the Republic of Slovenia, in particular the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European Region, adopted in Lisbon in 1997, and the Bologna Process for the Creation of a Single Higher Education European Area, based on the Bologna Declaration. In the international environment, the system of effective and fair recognition is set before the new challenges of constantly changing education systems, the increasing diversity of programmes of all levels of education and, on the other hand, the growing mobility. Today's Europe, geographically in the context of the world of Europe, offers programmes and exchanges of students, joint programmes, regardless of political and geographical boundaries, new forms of teaching and study, new organisations and accreditation of education, and different forms of quality assurance, different or wider than those provided by the State as guardian of public goods and the institution of public responsibility for its own education system. The new law establishes an effective and transparent system of recognition for the rapid and effective exercise of individual rights arising from the Education Charter, means the uniform and open development of criteria and frameworks within which individual legal interests can be taken into account and the possibility of allowing the directory of proof of education in the Republic of Slovenia and, in an international context, the exercise of individual rights arising from its Education Charter. Above all, there are two fundamental rights arising from education. This is the right to continue education at a higher or equal level as demonstrated by the Charter and the right to carry out the profession for which the holder has been trained at the place of origin of the Charter. We have followed the principle of non-discrimination in the recognition of school documents at all stages and in all directions of education. Allow me to point out in the end that the law has four content sets in which individual procedures are defined in more detail both conceptually and procedurally, and according to jurisdiction. Thus, the first part defines recognition for the purpose of continuing education, second recognition of education for the purpose of employment, third evaluation and fourth application of the title of vocational and professional education and professional and scientific title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolph Mojet, to present the report of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u75	Dear fellows and fellows, a very nice greeting! After a rather extensive explanation of this law by the proposer, the Committee asked the applicant in some general discussion how this law and the recognition and evaluation of education have been done following the study programmes so far. Of course, the proposer replied that this was not a matter of this law, but that it would solve the issue in the law on professional and scientific titles, that is, in the law that follows. On this basis, the Committee has taken up the amendments that have been tabled to this amendment - they have tabled: the LDS MPs, the United Nations Parliamentary Group and DeSUS - and some of their amendments. With these amendments, he merely filled the gaps created by the legislative process and warned them about the service of the National Assembly and by adopting these amendments, the law became consistent. We have come up with a complementary proposal for a law, and it is likely that the work has been done well, since no amendment has been tabled to this law so far. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, I propose that this complementary bill, such as the Committee has proposed to the National Assembly, be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I invite Mr Vojk Celigo to present to us the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! International cooperation in the field of education requires a new approach to the recognition and evaluation of education. The Member States of the European Union must recognise the professional addresses acquired in other Member States in order to enable the free provision of services in accordance with the basic contracts, of course if certain conditions are met. It is therefore necessary to regulate the procedure and conditions for the recognition of education in Slovenia in such a way as to enable the relevant institution to assess whether the qualifications acquired abroad comply with the criteria and criteria applicable to the Slovenian conditions for obtaining such education. These actions lead to the creation of a single higher education space. Of course, in Slovenia we must first provide opportunities for foreign students to choose either to continue studying with us or for possible employment. Some universities are already working well with foreign universities or at least individual members within the university. Some, however, have opened this door wide open after entering the European Union, through which they need to enter. We would also point out that, at the same time as the future of students, the mobility of professors can also be increased, which is an additional opportunity to provide quality in education, which we believe would make a meaningful use of. Evaluation and recognition in the manner set out in the bill is also necessary because different forms of study are emerging in Europe, often defined in a way that has been in place in Europe for the past few decades. The dynamics of the area led to differentiation, by name of the same and by way of different studies. The proposed law should therefore help to increase the fairness of schoolchildren. We are wondering whether they will justly evaluate or recognise the charters of programmes that are not present in Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that the proposed law will help to resolve the growing number of applications more and more, either for the recognition of documents for the purpose of continuing education or for the purpose of employment. At the same time, too, in our view, too high a cost will be reduced now in the current nostration process, which has actually discriminated against many students because of their inability to pay. In addition, we must not forget our citizens who would like to study abroad, because a proper evaluation of the study or other school program will enable them to complete their studies more quickly.It has happened so far that students who have studied abroad have had to carry out additional studies after returning to their home country and after the content of the same part of the study program as they have done abroad. For our country, European integration has also brought the need to adapt Slovenian legislation in the field of education. Such adaptation is also reflected in the proposal for a law that we are considering today. In the DeSUS Group, it is difficult to imagine the full implementation of the Bologna Process and the Lisbon Strategy without the modern system of recognition of foreign and Slovenian instruments of education. Members of the DeSUS Group will therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Komljanec will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the office or ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, for more than 30 years, regardless of all the changes that have taken place in particular in the field of education, recognition abroad of acquired education takes place following the process of nostration. There have always been questions about the appropriateness of this system, especially at the time of independence, but the same process is still ongoing today. From the increase in the number of applications for nostration, it can be found that more people are moving inappropriately within the international educational and workplace than in 1991, and that their effective integration into the new working or educational environment depends on a variety of bureaucratic processes that need to be reformed and simplified. Nostrification or recognition and evaluation of education is one of the processes which must enable rapid and effective integration, facilitate the exercise of individual rights arising from education and actively create and create a competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, capable of sustainable growth with more and better jobs and with more social connections. This is one of the fundamental leaders, including in the creation of a new system of recognition of education, which often goes beyond the borders of the European Union. The international conventions ratified by the Republic of Slovenia, in particular the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European Region, Lisbon 97, and the Bologna Process for the creation of a Single Higher Education European Space based on the Bologna Declaration, are a new and more effective basis for the processes of international academic cooperation and the exchange in which participation is to be made. In this context, the system of effective credible recognition is set before the new challenges of constantly changing education systems, the increasing diversity of programmes at all levels of education and, on the other hand, the mobility of students, academics and the increased mobility of programmes and institutions. Today, the world is undergoing a global overhaul of school education systems, an increasing number of joint exchange programmes for students and students, regardless of political and geographical boundaries, new forms of teaching and study, new accreditations and the organisation of education, and thus different forms of quality assurance. If we want to establish an effective and transparent system of recognition and effective enforcement of individual rights arising from educational instruments, it means that we need to develop uniformly the criteria and frameworks within which individual legal interests can be taken into account and allow holders of educational instruments, both within and outside the Republic of Slovenia, to exercise the individual rights arising from them. Above all, these are two fundamental rights arising from the education process. It is the right to continue education at the same or higher level as shown by the Charter and to exercise the right to pursue the profession for which the holder has been trained on the basis of the Charter he owns. In the legal order of European countries, recognition is not fully and uniformly regulated. While the way and criteria for the recognition of professional qualifications has been defined by Directives, due to the more efficient movement of labour within its borders, a single system has not yet been established in the field of academic recognition of education within the EU's legal system. The way, procedures and criteria are left to Member States which are bound by internal rules, international arrangements and the regulation of education and the labour market. For these reasons, the law must take account of the globalisation guidelines and, in particular, the principles of non-discrimination in the recognition of school documents at all stages and directions of education. The LDS Club believes that it is high time for this area to be effectively regulated if we want to be as acceptable as possible for the knowledge acquired by our citizens outside Slovenia or by foreigners coming or coming to us. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports the adoption of the law. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all colleagues and representatives of the government as well! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposaler's intention to replace the existing law or system of nostrations, allowing our citizens and foreigners who are educated in foreign educational institutions to apply different content, according to a different methodology, to recognise and evaluate the charters of foreign educational institutions, and thus to remove obstacles that have severely enraged a diplomat or even a doctor on his return to his home country. At the same time, it shall be ensured that, in accordance with international acts, it is also possible to recognise and evaluate the instruments of domestic educational institutions equally. Sometimes we get citizens to feel that we do not appreciate our educational programmes and the educational system compared with others. In this we are also embarrassed, that is, reluctantly, sometimes trying to mislead politics, as was the recent case when the law on higher education was being considered. Only the opposition's insistence is grateful that the second stage has not deteriorated. Although we have very different views in different political and professional options on our education and do not hide it, it is only right to maintain the hierarchical comparability of our educational levels towards a foreign environment. For overall progress, it is extremely important that transitions are made possible in educational and other processes, in order to enable the transfer of knowledge, to enable the competitiveness of educational institutions and educational programmes, to enable the possibility of employment and to remove all unnecessary formal and discriminatory barriers to all of this and to exclude neglect as much as possible. Sometimes we are a little surprised that some of the things that have been in place in Europe for a long time, we are only doing it to comply with the European legal order, not because, simply said, we would realize that our legal order or model is not good. In every law we have in the legislative process, there is a mandatory international comparison, but sometimes it seems to us that only what is attached to our political views is presented. Everything that is different, even if it is significantly better, sometimes remains hidden and covered. And I don't think it's right that it's just a change or a takeover of the European order, which is making our domestic regulations less rigid. It also makes sense for us to separate the competence of recognition for the purpose of further education and for the purpose of employment. A time-limital definition is also useful as such procedures need to be relatively quickly completed. I think it's a two-month deadline. However, the costs of these procedures need to be substantially reduced and to the greatest extent uniformised, as there are no specific reasons for a large derogation for such a more or less administrative procedure. As we say in our parliamentary group, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members. It would probably be difficult to find an individual who has not yet met with descriptions of the most common, not the most pleasant, nostrations in foreign documents that prove the level achieved and the type of education achieved. Complaints are most often about the duration of the procedure, although Slovenia is one of the few countries that has a procedure for recognition of all types and all levels of education acquired abroad for all purposes, legally regulated since the end of World War II. Due to the envisaged dual recognition and separation system, this problem will be eliminated according to the proposaler's forecast. The law is intended to provide for a rapid, efficient, balanced and professionally sound procedure for the recognition or evaluation of foreign education. At the same time, a good flow of information on Slovenian qualifications should be ensured, making it easier for individuals to apply our education either for further education or for inclusion in the labour market, as a systematic evaluation of Slovenian certificates for recognition abroad will be regulated. The definition of competence is also linked to this. For recognition by which the holder of the foreign education charter wishes to continue education in Slovenia, the educational institution in which such an individual is to be enrolled is competent. In doing so, it points out that this experience has already been introduced in us, and now it will have a legal basis for all levels of education. Recognition of education due to employment will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, which is also the most common European practice. As the recognition of education in the European Union is not subject to harmonisation, the exception is only regulated professions and regulated professional activities, they remain competent to regulate this area at national level. Even after the Bologna Declaration, recognition procedures are to be implemented, I state, "with full respect for the diversity of cultures, languages, national education systems and university autonomy", the end of the sentence. The agreed starting points of the Lisbon Convention, the Bologna Declaration and other documents are therefore essential, but it will be very important, in our view, to recognise education in particular for entry into the labour market under the emerging European Higher Education Qualifications Framework. However, we are aware that it will also be necessary to amend the law on professional and scientific addresses. On statistical data, a growing number of applications for nostration suggests that the proportion of applications for recognition of education due to inclusion in Slovenian education programmes will increase. The cause lies in the increasing mobility of students and interinstitutional integration also within international frameworks. Since we want to become a knowledge-based society, quality assurance in education, comparability of knowledge and recognition of education is the basis for creating an effective knowledge system. Finally, it does not appear to overlook the fact that the new costs of the procedure will also be more precisely defined and comparable to European ones, which means that in most cases they will be substantially reduced because nostrification will not be carried out, but only the prescribed procedures for the recognition and evaluation of education will depend on the purpose. For the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, it is important that the proposal for a law was created in cooperation with the working group on the preparation of higher education legislation, the student organisation of Slovenia, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on student issues and representatives of international institutions, and that is why we will support the complementary proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honorable representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues. I'm not going to repeat the content that we've already heard from the predecessors. In the Slovenian National Party, we identify and assess, as all of us do, the fact that we have already amended certain legislation on the basis of directives is valid. Not long after that, we discussed in particular the Bologna Declaration which, of course, she had and still the Slovenian National Party has an opinion. In the Slovenian National Party, we have assessed that given that some directives have already been adopted, it is also reasonable to adopt this law, which somehow complements everything that has already been said and said, in particular with a single objective, with regard to Slovenia, so that Slovenian students who have studied abroad can better come to an appropriate recognition and evaluation of the degree of study in Slovenia. Of course, let me say, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that we are still and will insist, like the euro realistics or the euro skeptics, regardless of the facts that have already been given to demand the principle of reciprocity at all levels of life. This also means the principle of reciprocity in this area. The area we are talking about, namely the proposal for a law on the recognition and evaluation of education is very important, we are speaking bilaterally, it is important for deficit activities in Slovenia and, of course, it is important for the recognition of Slovenian knowledge in the world and abroad. That is why allow me to point out once again all the conclusions we have adopted, but unfortunately they are true in relation to the Bologna Declaration and how we are in some way unfortunately but unfortunately, I hope that this will not be so much and I hope that we will fix it, degrade the value of Slovenian knowledge and the validity of at least some levels of education. But partly of course this bill speaks about it. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party of Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to say that this proposal for a law on the recognition and evaluation of education is yet another evidence and a warning to the Government that, if the devil says so, one law will be drawn up which will have some form and form, and that we will be able to complement or even fully acknowledge in the National Assembly. Not that he was getting a bunch of corrections again. Law enforcement had a few comments, at least as far as I knew the content. In fact, the law was drafted on the home labour body and, together with the legislative and legal service, in spite of the conduct to adopt the declaration. However, we do not understand in the Slovenian National Party why the opinion of the legislative and legal service by Articles 1 and 15 should not be and should not be taken into account. These are legal definitions of relationships and additions to who covers costs in the case of costs for applications and administrative actions. I have given the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. However, I hope that we will also clarify issues 1 and 15 and the opinions of the legislative and legal service. As has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party, given the facts already known, we estimate that it is reasonable to support this law in favour of Slovenian students.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you very much. And also the position of the New Slovenia Group, presented to us by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on evaluation and education sets out procedures, criteria and bodies for the recognition and evaluation of both foreign and Slovenian education, recognition abroad of the acquired title of professional and professional education, as well as of the foreign professional or scientific title acquired. New concepts are introduced for recognition and evaluation: a charter on education, a charter on the overall educational programme carried out, a charter on the partially completed educational programme and the direction and field of education. After this law, both our students and foreign students will be able to obtain an evaluation of their current studies so that they can continue their education both at home and abroad, as more and more students will decide on such or different combinations of studies. Education is also becoming more and more lifelong learning. As of 1 May, we have become a member of the European Community, so the labour market will also be increasingly open, of course for some professions more, for others less. This law therefore lays down procedures for recognition and evaluation for the purpose of employment. It shall also determine the use and equivalence of the title of vocational and professional education and of the professional and scientific title. This Decision shall be issued by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In our Group of Members, we believe that all of this is necessary, but we have a comment on Article 17, namely the records. The full and complete list of equivalent professions or decisions of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport on the equivalence of education should be made public and accessible online. This means that a special record should be kept without names in which all equivalent professions or educational programmes will be collected. It should contain all the necessary information on which professions and educational programmes have already been recognised in Slovenia as equivalent to foreign and vice versa, which foreign programmes and titles have been aligned with our domestic ones. In this record, only actual equivalences should be made and recognised. In our Group of Members, we believe that this amendment could only improve the law in Article 17. Otherwise, our New Slovenia Group does not oppose the adoption of the law that is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u88	We have heard the views of the members of the groups and have concluded with the presentation of the positions. Since there has been no discussion on the articles on the proposed amendment, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 17.6. following the end of the last item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia very much for their cooperation. At 2.45 p.m., we will move on to the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on changes and additions to the arms law. Until then, I'm adjourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u89	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue to work, moving on to 10. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENTAL LAW. The matter is obviously dangerous; between us I welcome a number of teams from the Ministry of the Interior. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I invite the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u90	Nice greeting, Madam Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Arms Act was adopted in the National Assembly on 20.6.2000. In the adoption process, Directive 91/477 governing the control of the purchase and possession of civilian weapons was taken into account. The main reasons that led us to the proposal for amendments to the arms law are as follows. Firstly, the issue of arms transfer is cross-border. We are adding to the law a new chapter that deals with this issue. This was previously regulated by the State Border Control Act 1991. The provisions of this Act have been repealed by the implementation of the new State border control law of 2000 and remain only those on arms transfers but are not aligned with the acquis of the European Union. In the paper submitted, Chapter 9a regulates the transfer, entry and amount of arms and arms trafficking, arms trafficking within the European Union and the transfer across external borders to third countries. That's what the first group complemented. The second group completed or the second supplement relates to Article 87 of the Arms Act, which provides for a transitional period of six months. Since we did not negotiate a transitional period for this issue, it was necessary to amend the legislation in the sense that European arms law applied immediately after the entry into the European Union, so we had to include this in the amendment to the law in order to eliminate the transitional period. The third group of supplements concerns the legalisation of weapons. The response to legalisation at the time of the adoption of the arms law was very good. More than 6,000 pieces of weapons have been declared in this respect. We were therefore of the opinion that it was necessary to move towards re-legislisation, thus allowing legalisation for those who did not take advantage of these opportunities within the six-month period. Complements thus bring a new one-year deadline for the legalisation of weapons. The fourth group of issues concerns the law on offences, real law and the law on inspection services. This is a later amendment to these regulations, which also has an impact on the regulation of the arms sector, and this law has to be amended or supplemented in these parts. And the fifth set of issues is, in fact, the elimination of various shortcomings, as a result of experience in the implementation of this law. Based on the analysis and experience of the legal solutions currently in force, we have made some changes, but in no way altering the concept of the law itself, not interfering with its essence, but improving the law. For example, relief for veterans of war for Slovenia, the validity of the sports and hunting list is extended from 10 to 20 years old, and certain reliefs in obtaining the arms charter for inherited weapons and what else could be accounted for in this fifth group. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that you adopt the complementary proposal of the Internal Policy Committee and that you also accept the additional amendment tabled by the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. We got the board's report on the bench. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Dorijan Marsič will present us the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! A respected minister with a co-worker and a co-worker! We have before us a new law on weapons, which we will support in our parliamentary group. We believe that this is a good complement to the current law, as it regulates the transfer of arms across the state border, which, due to changes to the state border control law, remains inconsistent with the EU acquis. The field of arms transfer across the national border does not fall within the rules governing State border control but rather within the rules governing the purchase and possession of weapons. The weapons are the only dangerous thing whose transfer across the state border is regulated by the State Border Control Act. The transfer of other things that pose a threat to the security of the State, public order, human health and thus further regulate individual material laws, such as the Explosives Act, the Chemicals Act and so on. The reasons for such a situation must be sought in the circumstances that Slovenia has, in a certain sense, drawn up the legal order of the former SFRJ when it comes to independence, and it is right to regulate this area in accordance with European standards. The bill also corrects certain articles which are not directly linked to the transfer of arms across the national border, namely those which have proven to be weak and illogical in the practice so far. The law was adopted in 2000 and has been in force since the sixth month of 2001. In this regard, it is explicitly stressed that the proposed solutions do not significantly affect the substance of the law itself or do not alter the legal position of persons already possessing or intending to possess weapons, deal with arms trafficking or engage in the activities of the shooting gallery. Nor does the law bring any more liberal policies to weapons than some would have wanted, but it is the continuation of a European tradition that highlights the security aspect and has similar arrangements in some other European countries, such as France and Denmark. At the same time, the proposed solutions also constitute compliance with other Slovenian legislation adopted after the adoption or implementation of the arms law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Bozič. Here you go. Mr. Ivan Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We will also support the bill in our parliamentary group. We have already agreed on the treatment on the working body and we are actually pleased because our amendments are more or less taken into account. It is true that the report does not, but they are fully taken into account in the sense that it actually gives the law something new. In view of the interpretation itself, it is only necessary to say that this law was, as proposed in Rapporteur No. 113 on page 6, paragraph 3 also achieve greater understanding and transparency of the provisions of the law, as regards the rights and obligations of individuals and legal persons relating to weapons. I have already spoken on behalf of the parliamentary group on many occasions on my own that we will receive directives in the European Union, which will have to be copied or used without amending the law. And if that is the case, it is not surprising that uniform and uniform rules should be laid down for the transfer of arms across national borders in the European Union. In the adoption of the law itself, it could only be recalled that there is a small difference that has been accepted, namely, Article 2 of the 26th indent, which states, "the ammunition is separated from the weapon when the drum or the shell is empty in the tube and the empty shell, in the case of a full Major, only this one is recovered, and the ammunition or the ammunition shell is not physically touched by the weapon." In doing so, I must warn you as a hunter that there are many modern installations, as well as old rifles embedded in the shells in the hooves, and these bullets are never recovered from the hooves because they are like a golden reserve. And that's how it stays. We are also pleased that the opinion has been taken into account that the validity of the Arms List needs to be extended, that 20 years is much more than 10 years, and that it is also suggested in the Ministry of the Interior that other countries have simpler laws in this regard. 14 days ago, I was in Estonia in Tallinn. I could buy a machine gun in the antique shop. They're sold by all kinds, Russian, French, German, and somehow we're still acting ignorant about it, and we don't want to hear it, but it's coming after us. Maybe I'm talking more relaxed about guns, because I grew up with guns. I was very young when she was II. World war, weapons were great in every house, just as there were different armies, but then there were many fewer accidents, and neither were people attacking, because they knew what weapons were. Who knows how to deal with guns and who has learned is not such a terrible thing. And especially in our society, in Slovenia, we think too often scary about weapons, just as we have become scary to death, because now our relatives are mostly dying in hospitals, in sanatoriums, in the homes of pensioners and we are somehow scared to death of everything that can happen to us. It's not true, it's all normal, and death and weapons, as well as normal life. Usually, not the way many people think. As I said before, we will support this bill. But there will certainly be major changes, as there are many other things in the EU. If I can buy a machine gun in Estonia and I can't get a military rifle with us, that's a little different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. The fact is, the EU is coming to its senses and the mistakes it has made in its basic arms law are slowly trying to correct. We have not yet reached this level and there will be a number of things to fix, even though the EU could be ahead of us in a wide range of segments and the EU would pick up good solutions for us. I will not go into this matter, because in these matters we will go into the next term when we introduce a law amending the arms law. The fact is that the police still want to show us that the interior ministry is something untouchable, something terrible, something terrible, something that should be allowed only to the electorate, preferably to the electorate from one party or from the ruling suit. This is at odds with democratic practice in the EU, driven by the understanding of weapons, is disputed by the understanding of weapons and weapons. I think it would make more sense if the police, or internal affairs, were to explore things that they don't explore, to "shoot" before their threshold of "pigs" that accumulate in endlessly large piles, but not that. In the laws of the matter it is necessary to limit to the extent that we will also come back to the arms law, preferably to that of 1954, which we have summarized after the Soviet Union at that time. A lot of things have already been said by my friend Christmas. I agree with him, and this is also a matter that needs to be corrected. There is also a need to harmonise something that is not yet harmonised between the arms law and between the criminal code. We're gonna have to work this out, too. It will also be necessary to regulate that senseless provision, which requires some people, and I will only take as an example, say, an officer of the territorial defence acting as captain, who, in order to keep a trophy gun, must pass the exam, but at the same time can command the Havbic batteries. That wasn't the problem - but for the gun he has to pass the exam that he seems to have the sole purpose of giving certain people financial resources. Also, in relation to and in connection with the arms law, it is not regulated to brand weapons, which we will probably not even need anymore, but in spite of all the misunderstanding and incomprehensible approach, we do not have a Slovenian weapons tester with a Slovenian chip, but we have someone who is enrolled in a Hungarian chip, which is a huge mistake and, in fact, a disgrace for Slovenia, although it is not a major issue. But it was here, of course, for financial supplies that could bring a certain person a lot of money. And there was also a strange murmur at the level of the Ministry of the Interior and that gentleman. In short, we will uphold the law, for it is better to support this marriage. After all, some matters are handled better than the present law. Surely, though, one bad thing or unfinished thing is implanted into a marriage. This is that the Minister of the Interior has only once the opportunity to present the abolition of existing weapons. And if it is necessary, if the Minister decides that it would make sense to collect weapons again from various private resources and, according to the Slovenian National Party, the weapons on the black market in Slovenia are still around 70,000 pieces, if he wants to do so, he will have to change the law, which is pointless. This could be regulated already in the existing law, so as not to specify precisely that it is possible to do so only in this law and only within a limited period of time, but could be said to add one sentence so that the Minister of the Interior may prescribe an additional deadline. This could also be seen in neighbouring Croatia, which our politicians, especially the politicians from the United List and the Liberal Democracy, are so pleased to support and help it on its way to the European Union, and at least we could see that with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u98	Good day to all Members and Members of Parliament, as well as to representatives of the Government! These amendments are coordinated by legislation in relation to the European directives, the transfer of arms across borders. So far, this area has been regulated by the State Border Control Act. A permit for such a transfer was granted at the diplomatic representation abroad. So with the new legislation, we are coordinating our area of the arms law with the directives of the European Union. The billmaker, the government, says there will be problems if we do not adopt this legislation. The problems will be faced by hunters and contestants in the shooting competitions if they have weapons entered into the European Passage to be issued by their home country, and under our legislation we will require them to be granted special permission by our diplomatic representation abroad. If individuals complain to the EU because of our demands contrary to the directive, they may face fines or damages. As a rule, if the area in national legislation is not regulated and there is any damage and compensation claim, then this compensation claim and obligation shall be transferred to the country. But if this is settled, then the compensation is borne by the individual himself. In New Slovenia we wonder why this part of the legislation was not prepared in time for adoption. Who's responsible for accepting this after May 1st? How many complaints or inconveniences occurred at that time? However, there are still some inappropriate regulations in the basic arms law, paragraphs 17 and 59, in conjunction with Article 14, when the allocation of arms is somehow linked to the inclusion of hunting families or sports companies. I don't know, it's probably just a consequence of the past and some of our decisions now that all people have to be registered somewhere in some societies and so on. Societies either hunters or firearms or similar are civil society organisations and there is no point in linking them with certain obligations. Therefore, the issue of arms should not be linked to membership in these organisations or societies. And then, of course, there are provisions that this family must report where it went, whether it checked out and so on. In short, as is the case with the law on hunting, which has also hung certain special powers for hunting families or hunting societies, which must be distinguished between the obligations and competences of the State and the choices chosen by each individual when joining a society or similar association. Until then, we will not be hailed as a country with civil and state relations.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 14.6.2004. We can see in the review that only one amendment has been tabled to Article 1 has been tabled, so that I am putting Article 1 into the debate and the amendment of the LDS Club to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the 21.15 vote. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Ministry very much for their cooperation. However, we interrupt the meeting, which we will continue at 4:10 p.m. when we move on to the 8th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the bill on amendments and additions to the law on general administrative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u100	We're moving to Treatment 8. Agenda items - This is a second defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I invite the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. The aim of the amendment to the General Administrative Procedure Act is to increase the effectiveness of procedures, to implement solutions in the area of service approximation, administrative services to users and the enforcement of electronic commerce. New solutions are proposed in the following areas. Firstly, the area of approximation to users, simplification of procedures, this is a matter of amending the provisions on local jurisdiction, the government is authorised to allow the exercise of rights to really competent authorities anywhere in the country. Another novelty, also due to the cost-effectiveness of the procedures, is that not all administrative actions need to be carried out at the central location of the Ministry, but also at the local level of the State. The following novelty shall be linked to the acquisition of data from official records, by official duty, so that it is clear that the authority conducting the procedure may select all data relating to the procedure, including personal data. In short, the expanded possibility of obtaining data by the authority is also open to procedures that are initiated on an official basis and do not decide on the right of the party. An important novelty is the re-introduction of administrative signatures, transcripts and copies, which should significantly simplify the procedures of the parties, so that they will not have to visit the notary during the procedure. The provisions on service have been amended. In addition to the electronic service arrangements, for example, it is stipulated that, after the deadline for lifting documents to the post office, this document shall not be returned to the body but shall be left in the mailbox of the addressee. Another large group of issues concerns electronic commerce. The electronic submission of applications, the monitoring of notifications and publications and the conduct of procedures through the Internet and personal electronic service are more widely regulated, which will indeed enable the issuance of electronic decisions and decisions. A so-called single information system for the reception of applications, service and information shall be introduced. This will be established for the entire public administration and public authorities, with the possibility of also applying to the municipal administration, not only to all holders of qualified digital certificates issued by the government authority. And our third big area, enhancing the efficiency of the administrative process. Here I would point out in particular a simplification which is that the holders of public powers themselves exercise their acts, without the mediation of the public authorities, a different regulation of the issue of the participation of foreign participants in proceedings, and the active conduct of those who wish to participate as a party to the procedure and the procedural sanctioning of their inactivity is required. It is also worth noting that a new system of jurisdiction is in place to decide on exceptional remedies for the abolition and annulment of supervisory rights and, in the case of cases under the original jurisdiction of self-government local communities. The solution under which the Ministry of Labour is responsible for decision-making is more rational than the current solution whereby the Ministry of Administration is responsible for all of this. Four more sets. Here are adaptations to legislation in other areas, such as local self-government, air and maritime transport, public information and others. The administrative inspection regime is adapted to the regulation under the State Administration Act. This would be a brief summary of the contents of the novel. We have taken full account of the opinions of the legislative and legal services. The Commission of the State Council for the Political System also supported the bill. The amendments adopted are without prejudice to the text. Their nature is a more editorial improvement of the text or a clearer formulation of the provisions. I propose that the updated text of the law, together with the amendments of the Internal Policy Committee, be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The Internal Policy Committee, as the parent of the labour force, has examined the proposal for a law. You've received the report. The rapporteur is not in the Chamber, so we will move on to the views of the parliamentary groups. The first position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Vojko Celigoj. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The administrative procedure, together with the administrative dispute, the administrative complaint and the Ombudsman, consists of a whole system of this legal protection. Given that almost all citizens and others who otherwise have contact with a country in the broader or narrower meaning of that word are facing the administration, the administrative procedure with which the administrative authorities decide on individual rights or knowledge is certainly one of the more frequent procedures used is therefore certainly worth special treatment. Although it is not a matter of amending the basic concept of the administrative procedure itself, it does introduce some novelties to which it is worth noting. It is certainly one of such provisions-implementation of the electronic operation of the administration, which certainly represents a great novelty for both administrative workers and individual users. It is certainly about bringing users' services closer together, as well as about faster handling of administrative matters. But we're a little skeptical about personal electronic heat. Those decisions, decisions and other documents shall be served individually under the Administrative Procedure Act, from which the service begins to run. Regardless of the dynamics of modern life, it may occur that a specific 15-day period is due, after which the matter is considered to be hot. On the other hand, we also wonder about the possibility of possible abuses. The aim of modern democratic societies is to create an open and transparent public administration to serve as a service to the users of its services. In the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we think it is a good solution to the proposed law, since it allows the party to obtain certain services with any real competent authority in the country, regardless of the place of its permanent residence. This is necessary already because of the typical mobility of Slovenian citizens and others. This will certainly help to achieve the objective of greater accessibility to public administration, in general the satisfaction of all those who do not need to have their right to an administrative unit. The adoption of the proposal under consideration today is certainly not to be welcomed by notaries who will only provide services before it is accepted, such as certification for the needs of administrative procedures. From the point of view of citizens, this is a welcome, hopefully, even cheaper news. With regard to the protection of personal data, it seems questionable to us that an official may, for the purposes of determining the actual situation, obtain personal data from the official records of a party who has made a request for the initiation of a procedure, unless the party expressly prohibited the acquisition of such data. The exceptions are, however, data deemed to be tax confidentiality or relating to racial or other origins, political, religious and other beliefs, trade union membership, sexual behaviour, criminal convictions and health data that a person may obtain in accordance with the preceding paragraphs only if so provided for by law or on the basis of the express written consent of the party or other person to whom that information relates. Notwithstanding a certain exception in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the party itself is often unable to know that it is and where it is entitled to a ban, as many do not know what is in the official records. However, data from official records often decide on individual rights or obligations. However, we will support the proposal of the law in the DeSUS Group, regardless of the last comment, because we believe that it guarantees both legal and legal certainty and, on the other hand, the openness and transparency of the state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The great ambition we have already set ourselves at the beginning of the mandate, which was professionally called the removal of bureaucratic barriers, a more friendly state administration, not only in relation to public authorities, but also in relation to official bodies of local communities and public authorities, was an ambitious objective. The great joy that we have, I think, already in 2002, shared with Members and Members of the Government Coalition, when we just adopted this regulation, the law on the general administrative procedure was being amended and supplemented in a work where we had the ambition that the official authorities, namely, the local authorities, the local community authorities, the holders of public authority to prove the facts would no longer send people from window to window, but would, because this could be substantially cheaper and more rationally obtained, have done the data themselves. Unfortunately, with this change in a certain part, we can see that ambition failed at that time. The provisions of Article 67 are being amended again and the official himself recovers for the purpose of determining the actual state of the party's personal data from the official records, by now removing that obstacle which prevented officials from doing so. It is not until 2004 that we establish a legal basis for obtaining personal data within the meaning of the provisions of the law governing the protection of personal data, irrespective of whether specific material laws for certain types of administrative procedures contain such a basis. Why are we writing like that? Because we quickly found that ambitious change did not achieve its objective because individual material regulations did not provide a basis and, on behalf of the protection of personal data, those who collected official data did not provide them. And it's a shame that it's only just now that there's been this movement. Of course, it brings some novelty to the law, following the acquisitions of the time in which we live. It's information technology. It is about improving access to information and improving access to services in terms of allowing investment in different ways, both electronic applications, deposits via telephone, the ability to facilitate the identification of the client, to improve the transmission of information and to provide only certain services in administrative units can be obtained anywhere in the territory of our country and not only in the local administration unit. The important knowledge of this company also results in a change when it has been possible to conclude, however, that the verification of signatures, transcripts and copies for the purposes of administrative proceedings is being returned to the public authorities. It was senseless that the party to the instrument submitted to the administrative authority and for which the administrative authority itself could confirm the identity on the spot had to certify it in advance. We can, of course, and we can assess that legal certainty will not be undermined, but we will certainly help to make administrative services in this part cheaper for the customer. It also seems important to me that we have drafted an amendment in terms of additional protection against the scrupulous involvement of the parties in the process. However, it is necessary to specify in one way what the legal interest is, that the party enters the procedure and that evidence can also be provided. The law therefore brings new news for some, we are assessing in the parliamentary group that it is too late and that the more effective executive branches could bring these changes at the right time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Rudolf Petan has the floor, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Respectable. The law under consideration is one of the basic procedural laws in the field of the implementation of administrative procedures, both in the public administration authorities, in local communities and in the exercise of public authority. This is a law governing the relations between the state and the citizens, i.e. in the area where the state's relationship is directly manifest, that is, the authorities, to their citizens. This is an area where users are, these are citizens, especially sensitive, because any user who is only automatically in a subordinate position by entering the process to power. Therefore, the law governing such a relationship to power is more or less than just a letter on paper. The current law has been in force since 2000 and has still been too much of an old so-called federal law. Each country, including ours, has a goal and must aim at modernising public administration, and this service of citizens needs to be regulated more user-friendly in terms of simplifying procedures and, last but not least, the life-cycle interpretation of the procedures themselves. According to the proposal of the proposer, the main objective of the amendment and the addition of this law is to increase the effectiveness of procedures with regard to the elimination of the uncertainties identified and the simplification of procedures. These changes are to be divided into four groups or four subgroups. The first is to address the changes needed in order to be more user-friendly in order to simplify procedures, as well as to obtain data under official responsibility. Particular reference should be made to the area of certification of signatures, transcripts and copies. Certainly, notary certification in cases where administrative procedures are involved is likely to be excessively demanding and unnecessary administration. Too bad we needed so much time and demanded so much effort from people that we could come to know it. Clearly, this was more about the interests of a narrow circle of people than it was about the interests of 2 million citizens. This package also includes a very important introduction of the right to rule out the rule of local jurisdiction by a regulation for certain procedures. This right would be particularly important in regulating the purchase, sale and registration of cars, probably elsewhere, but it is probably most obvious here. This is a large number of jobs, according to statistics, several hundred thousand, but it is in this area that the country has a staff, but which has lost its job by introducing stickers, and the country has thus given up about 8 billion revenue, people have stayed, and it is probably the area that would be the easiest to fill and thus simplify the search procedures, I will say, citizens, when they are looking for official documents, which are of course prescribed to them. The second component is intended to include changes and additions related to e-business. In this area, Slovenia should do much more, mainly due to the heavy costs of informationisation. However, the impact was probably due to the selfish but dominant interests of suppliers, the incompatibility of equipment between individual sectors or ministries. If this law helps to eliminate these anomalies, it will certainly be a step forward. The amendments are intended to complement solutions that increase the efficiency of the administrative procedure and also the placement of the administrative inspection. Our desire, and probably the desire of all citizens everywhere, is that we make the public administration more friendly or otherwise that our citizens, which makes it possible for the public administration at all, to have easier access to and implementation of the procedures and also easier access to the documents that citizens need. In the SDS, we will support these changes with the desire that the letters of the law follow the life-long interpretation of this letter of the law, because we have all too many cases where marriage is not so bad, but those who have this right, the possibility, take the opportunity to interpret the laws in their own way and also very arrogantly turn to the citizens. We hope that this has also somehow followed this law, so that the public administration in this area will also become more friendly. We will support this law in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues! Mr. Minister, representatives of the government! The new Act on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act changes or complements 139 out of 325 articles according to our calculations, almost half. In the Slovenian National Party we assess and we are convinced that it would be better to take some more time and make a new law, because we know that the law on the general administrative procedure is and will be directed primarily to all those citizens and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who must through all this procedure to regulate such and different relations. We also ask ourselves in the Slovenian National Party how some or quite some of the amendments proposed by the legal and legislative service have not been taken into account in the amendment of the law. If you don't mind, a few specific cases. For example, the opinion of the legislative and legal service was that it would only consider replacing the term "spis" with the term "document" because the term "spis" today basically means a collection of some documents and is not equivalent by assessment and by assessment of the users of services and of course also service providers. The legislative and legal service then identified the inadequacy of the proposed term 'unanimous identification of the party'. This is a provision of Article 29 because, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, this term is not generally used and would suggest that it should be further explained or replaced by a different, more appropriate term. Then, in the opinion of the legislative and legal service, article 32, where it is a matter of dictatorship, the invited party has to attach evidence justifying the omission. The Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out the feasibility of such a decision, given that the justified omission does not always constitute a state in which evidence can be obtained. Such comments, which we are assessing in the Slovenian National Party, are right to take into account the legislative and legal services created by them, there is something else, particularly, where the financial burdens of the parties are compared to the current arrangements in the case of proposed solutions where the party, when submitting the copy and photocopy documents, must show the original charter and then both be verified. In our view, this is certainly irrelevant and I think, even if it is costlyly unacceptable, in particular with the aim that the bill seeks to achieve, and this is a friendly administration, to be a cheaper administration for people. In any event, achieving the objective of simplifying the process and bringing the administrative procedure of users closer to modern electronic commerce is an urgent evil and, of course, is the only likely and possible option that achieves this objective. However, it is true that there will be some financial consequences for achieving this objective, but it is only right that it is so, with the desire to be reachable, so to bring the friendly administration closer to the users, i.e. Slovenians, Slovenians, citizens, citizens, citizens, citizens, citizens. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act. However, once again we point out and appeal to the government that for the first time, and of course to colleagues, let us take into account some of the other provisions that are, or opinions that are, judged by the legislative and legal service that are actually justified, and secondly, that the government, at the earliest possible time in view of a large number of amended articles, should consider a single, comprehensive and good law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The new Law on the General Administrative Procedure, adopted in 1999 and adopted in 2000 and amended in 2002, has the ambition to improve the relatively good legal basis by amending and supplementing articles 139. The administrative process is the most important business process in which users come in contact with the public administration, which the government wants to modernise with projects that are mainly user-oriented. This means that public officials are more cordial, that they are valued and simplified, that in certain procedures, they are removed from local jurisdiction, that they are introduced by electronic commerce and that they are adapted to the new public administration system, and that there are some terminology changes. The Legislative and Legal Service has submitted its opinions and observations on the broad amendments and additions, which concern 24 articles, which it has taken into account in most cases and through amendments to the Committee. It is important to establish minimum procedural standards for the rights of customers and catheters for their enforcement is the democratic expression of each country, which is particularly reflected in the restriction of power, and especially in creating conditions for reducing potential abuses against the individual who takes part in the procedure prescribed by the State as a weaker article. In the context of the so-called European Administrative Procedure, common starting points are established, based on four principles: legality, openness and transparency, legal security and the right of citizens to request an administrative procedure in the event of interest. All four principles should also ensure that we citizens and citizens receive such standards of rights so that they are treated and respected in a fair and timely manner as a weaker party to the procedure in accordance with the law. In our Group of Members, we support amendments and additions that are intended to contribute in particular to the greater efficiency of the administrative procedure and, on the other hand, to the burden of the parties on those tasks which may otherwise be carried out by the State authorities. In particular, we are thinking of obtaining data by official duty, which has not yet been fully revived and is still in a number of stages of the service. It is the provisions of Article 69 concerning the acquisition of data - by putting an application on the windows, we also give direct authorization to the services to obtain data; if we do not want to do so, this must be explicitly expressed. Then we are thinking about the service, about the certification of signatures, of copies of incopies, where the demand for notary services is unnecessary, so administrative verifications would also burden citizens and citizens financially. We are thinking of the so-called e-government, which would allow for the adoption of an electronic role, electronic service, decision of the body and monitoring of the situation, which we know can't live either. Procrastination, which is still present with a wide range of national authorities, is also a major obstacle to greater efficiency, so we can only hope that the proposed novel will successfully address this area, also in the event of bullying. The law is to enter into force from 1.1.2005 and we can only hope that in practice it will also bring new quality to citizens and citizens in dealing with national authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 14.6.2004. First, I am putting to the debate Article 144 and the amendment of the LDS. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. And I am also putting to the debate Article 146 and the amendment of the same motions for this article. Anybody want a word? Not at all. I therefore conclude the debate and inform you that, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the 21.15 vote. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister and Secretary of State very much for his cooperation. However, I would like to inform you that at 17.15 we will proceed to the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the bill on road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u113	We're moving to nine. Period of the day - that's a second defensive bill on the safety of road transport. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not yet available. The Minister's coming. I welcome the Minister for Home Affairs, Dr Bohinc, who will provide an additional explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u114	Dear Mr. Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! There's a new road safety law ahead of you. It brings a series of innovations that, in our firm belief, will make an important contribution to improving traffic safety on Slovenian roads over a longer period of time. In its creation, the professional public, organisations and companies active in the field of transport safety were drawn to the participation of the Council on Road Traffic Prevention and Training. The comments were made by 48 authorities, organisations and associations and were taken into account in the drafting of the new law and some have also contributed significantly to its quality. The key changes are as follows. In view of the definition that it is necessary to act as preventively as possible, systemic changes are important, in particular in the area of the organisation and implementation of preventive action and coordination of all entities exercising certain powers in this area. All these tasks are brought together in a public road safety agency which takes over the tasks of coordinating national road safety programmes, working with civil associations, assisting the prevention and training council in local communities, promoting and disseminating transport safety publications, organising and carrying out analytical and research work, as well as carrying out important training tasks for teachers, regulations and driving and beginners. Another major innovation is in the field of young drivers, as is unfortunately the most common causes of the worst traffic accidents. The first concerns the enforcement of preparations for a motor vehicle driver, at 16 and a half years of age, after 17 years of driving with a motor vehicle companion up to 18 years of age. And another novelty, regarding young drivers, at the age of 18, obtains a driving licence, with a limitation of validity for two years or until the age of 21, then has to carry out an additional programme of safe driving and group workshops in the field of psychosocial relations in the field of transport. Here we follow the objectives of the national road safety programme, where this category of drivers is defined as one of the most threatened. We are confident that this way of training will have positive effects for a longer period of time, as it allows for better quality skills and skills for self-participation in transport. And the third important news is that it refers to criminal policy, and it's sharpened. Higher penalties for offences in accordance with the provisions of the new Act on Offences are at risk. Since in the past the Road Traffic Safety Act meant around 70% of the cases belong to infringement judges, the adoption of a new Road Traffic Safety Act is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives defined by new criminal law. In the determination of sanctions for offences, the applicant has fully taken into account the national road safety programme, with particular attention to the infringements identified in this programme as the most common cause of traffic accidents. Accordingly, a higher sanction for the most serious infringements of these provisions is laid down. For example, for over speeding in a settlement for more than 50 kilometres per hour, there is a sanction, in addition to the fine of termination of the driving licence. Same for driving under the influence of alcohol over 1.5 grams of alcohol per kilogram of blood or 0.7 liters of alcohol per litre of breathable air. Higher sanctions than for road users are also prescribed for drivers of traffic accidents, except for accidents with a minor risk. The Ministry of Justice, the Chamber of Offences and Judges for Offences participated in the determination of sanctions, ensuring the balance of sanctions and their compliance with the system's rules, that is with the Act on Offences. I have outlined three of the most important areas of news, but allow me to give some news below. The first is the extension of the powers of municipal editors. In addition to the existing powers, traffic control is expected to take place in the area of quiet transport and in the pedestrian area. In addition, infringements of the provisions of the Road Safety Act relating to road and environmental protection are to be detected. And the editors are also supposed to be doing speed measurements in a settlement with fixed speed gauges. The additional novelty concerns certain road traffic rules where the stricter definition of speeding sanctions is defined. It is also specified between the parking provisions who can park the vehicle in the parking space for disabled persons. The bill complements the current system of provisions relating to the problem of alcohol and drugs, psychoactive drugs and other psychoactive substances in road transport. The provisions try to simplify police procedures in the Slovenian area to determine the presence of alcohol, drugs, psychoactive drugs and other psychoactive means through police procedures from the European Union countries. In the "psychophysical conditions of road users" section, among categories of drivers who are not allowed to have alcohol in the body in road traffic are also defined as follows: motor vehicle drivers who do not have a driving licence or a driving licence do not have a registered category of motor vehicle which they drive; further drivers who are subject to a driving ban or whose driving licence is withdrawn, as well as drivers driving groups of children. All values of the measured concentration are newly expressed in milligrams of alcohol in a litre of breathable air, resulting from the introduction of new alcoholisation devices, so-called ethylmeters. The next area of innovation concerns harmonisation of social legislation with the acquis of the European Union, legislation relating to rest, rest and driving time. In this context, it is also extremely important to extend the powers of the traffic inspector of the Republic of Slovenia in order to punish the driver on the spot when he is found to be in violation. The carrying out of technical inspections of motor vehicles and trailers, the further implementation of the activities of the school, these two are activities carried out in the form of an economic public service, thus carried out in the form of a concession concluded by the Republic of Slovenia as a concessionaire and a qualified person of private law as a concessionaire. The same solution is also envisaged for the exercise of safe driving and group workshop, except that in this case the concession is a public agency. Colleagues and colleagues, with the new registration system, the services associated with the so-called registration of a vehicle are transferred to the widest possible range of authorised persons, which means a great burden on the user of such services, as all these services can be performed in one place. Let me conclude with this: in the first months of this year, the traffic safety situation is getting worse than in previous years. To date, 116 people have lost their lives, compared to the same period of the year, there were only 101 people, which means 14.85% increase. Several participants were also seriously or potentially injured. The total number of accidents is also higher. In order to change negative trends, we have already implemented some of the short-term measures agreed on by the Coordination Committee of Ministers, which guides the national road safety programme; these measures are now being implemented. It would also be necessary to adopt long-term measures, which certainly include the new Road Safety Act. The amendment of the law has always had positive effects in road safety practice so far, so we expect in this case. From here I see the importance of today's debate and the adoption of this law. I propose that the law in the second reading, together with the amendments supported by the Government, respected colleagues and colleagues, be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you, Minister, for this additional explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. The report of the committee will be presented by colleague Dusan Vukko. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u116	As I still have on behalf of the Group of Members, I apologize, Mr Vice-President. There has been a broad debate on the proposed law on the Committee. Most of the discussions took place with regard to the law laying down the new competences of the municipal authorities, as well as those provisions relating to the driving rules themselves. The amendments adopted by the Committee are clear from the amended bill, so I would not be losing too many words for individual solutions at this time. The Committee proposes that the law be adopted in the form prepared by the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you for this part of the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He will be the first to receive the word Franz Lenko, for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members! Modern civilisation, which has certainly brought many advantages with the development of technology, has also changed the structure of the danger in transport. It is not known that after the number of accidents in Europe, we are in an unenviable place, by the number of accidents in transport, which implies the need for a long-term and system-wide programme that will allow for coordinated professional planning and implementation of key transport processes and measures. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we support most of the news provided by the bill. We agree with the proposal to establish a public road safety agency that will bring together the diversified functions of individual authorities, in particular road prevention and training, coordination of projects arising from the national programme and analytical research work. The measure, which provides for the granting of special status to societies and associations operating in the field of prevention and security, is an important incentive for the functioning of civil society in this field, while at the same time acting in the public interest. We are pleased to note that the law has also set the goal of improving the safety of young drivers and has laid the groundwork for obtaining driver education. The statistics show that drivers are the most common drivers, especially young drivers, the most frequent drivers of accidents and, together with passengers in passenger cars, the most common victims. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group of Members, we support the solution that young people from school to school from school to one year drive with a companion coming out of the family circle and therefore certainly have a lot of concern for the young driver. It is true that these 18-year-olds must also formally pass the driving test, but we hope to achieve the expected effect through preventive action. The proposal for a road safety law is made so that the effects arising from the standards will work in two ways - preventive and repressive. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is necessary to give weight primarily to preventive measures and we agree with those who believe that repression is not the best way to raise road transport. It is known that dangerous penalties, which we consider to be too high in the bill, do not in any way improve safety in road transport or elsewhere. Moreover, it makes even more sense if the majority of the sentences imposed, as before, are obsolete. We must also say that we regret that a supplement has not been adopted on the Committee, which provides that the statement of termination of the driving licence for motor vehicles shall be issued only in respect of the categories under which the person committed the offence or offences. We agree that it is in some sense a ban on the exercise of a profession insofar as a professional driver is deprived of his/her driving licence for non-working driving offences with a vehicle belonging to another category as a professional vehicle. We imagine a bus driver or a truck who commits an offence during his leisure time leading to the withdrawal of a driver's license, which is not impossible when the law is passed with such high penalties, perhaps in a longer period of time. The prohibition of driving a motor vehicle of all categories actually prevents it from surviving. It is also regrettable that on the registration plates, the coat of arms and the names of the cities will be replaced with only the Slovenian coat of arms and the name of the country. This is some form of delocalisation of people who must identify with the place of residence. Although it is only a symbolic act, we believe that it could have an impact on a large thought leap. We do not know whether the removal of the local hump weighs more than [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[.....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] which no longer prevents the registration of vehicles outside the place of the parent administrative unit. [[...]] Despite the comments made, it seems necessary for us in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners to adopt a new law on road safety. Values resulting from, for example, the principle of trust or the principle of defensive driving are a fundamental and good basis for safe driving. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dušan Vučko again has the floor for the position of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, coworkers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The risk and efficiency of road traffic are affected by three factors: driver, vehicle and road, in the broader sense of the word. In view of this, the question of the relevance of the separation of areas of traffic rules, drivers, vehicles and road systems is raised. We believe that these are areas that need to be integrated into a system in the future, for which we will also strive in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Until then, the LDS Club supports the solutions set out in the proposal for a road safety law. The new Road Safety Act follows the objectives of the national road safety programme and brings some innovations and improvements that will contribute to greater safety on Slovenian roads. The draft law also provides for the establishment of a public agency, as national road safety organisations, in accordance with the provisions of the national programme. Among the financial resources, its works in addition to budget resources are also provided for concession funds, which, in our view, is entirely in line with the legislation in force. We also support the introduction of a concession system for the provision of registration services and technical checks, as it is the concession system that will prevent unfair competition, ensure greater scope and quality of services. We believe that the provisions of the law will contribute to greater transport safety, including through higher risk penalties for offences, although we are well aware that only an increase in long-term repression cannot produce the right results, as we all wish and rightly expect. The law also seems to us to have important provisions on the basis of which users will have a higher level or level of service, both in the field of driver training and training, as well as in all vehicle-related procedures. With regard to the law, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia proposes some changes, at which point it would set up only one, namely that relating to Article 14. Article 14 provides for the authority of the municipal authorities, and the latter is substantially extended, since the tasks or competence of the municipal authorities should also apply to the regulation of the traffic of vehicles in settlements, on all roads, whether national or local. Then, in the field of supervision of cyclists and pedestrians in settlements, as well as outside settlements, and the detection of infringements related to road safety and infringement of the provisions on speeding, by measuring with fixed gauges. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that such a transfer of competence is not necessary, as it is on the one hand typical police powers and tasks. Secondly, it is perfectly clear, by law, that there are specific tasks for the police, which only have to carry out consistently. Such "ad hoc" delegation of powers and tasks may, because of the vague delimitation of tasks between the municipal authorities and the police, result in the transfer of responsibility for the performance of these tasks from one service to another, which cannot and cannot be in our interest, as this could result in the failure to perform these tasks. Such a provision can be understood, not as a "de lege", but as a "de facto" withdrawal of the police from carrying out these tasks. I speak mainly in the context of supervision of cyclists and pedestrians in settlements and cities, although this is one of the tasks of the police. This would not be the first time, since it is more obvious that supervision of peaceful transport has not been a police priority for some time now, if any, and that this area is entirely left to local communities or municipal authorities. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that in this way the municipal municipal police, the police, which we object to, are being introduced into our system quietly, through the side door, and we particularly note that such systemic changes need to be introduced in a completely different way. The other amendments proposed relate in particular to provisions setting out the range of beneficiaries allowed to park in the marked parking space, as well as provisions relating to the identification procedure for drivers driving under the influence of drugs. More about these changes under the amendments themselves. In short, in the LDS House of Members, we will support the bill, aware that in the future it will be necessary to focus attention not only on drivers but also on those elements that undoubtedly affect safety, both on vehicles and on roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor and invite Franco Sušnik. He will give the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! All due respect! As early as June 2002, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, when adopting the national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia, we drew attention to the extremely poor traffic safety, which unfortunately ranks us last in comparison with the neighbouring countries of the European Union. We supported the national programme, aware of the alarming situation on our roads and in the hope that the national programme will be followed immediately by a modern road safety law. Unfortunately, even after two years, the law on road safety, which could indicate hope for improving safety, has not yet been passed and enforced, to the end of the senseless sea that is taking place in front of our eyes on our roads. In the last year alone, 259 road users died in traffic accidents, 1451 were seriously injured, an additional 16,500 injured, and the material damage is incomprehensible, in disregard of the price of lives that are irreplaceable. In Slovenia, road mortality, measured by the number of dead road users per million inhabitants, is twice as high as the comparable European countries, which have seen the problem of transport safety as a key national problem and have addressed it properly. In adopting the national road safety programme, we have already pointed out the specificity and inadequacy of our practice, which is unfortunately still in place, as it is contrary to European practice, when transport security is the domain of transport ministries, in the Republic of Slovenia transport security is still within the competence of the Ministry of Interior, which, because of its nature, views transport security only from a repressive point of view. Despite the general awareness that the sanctioning of traffic offences is only one and far from satisfactory and sufficient condition for ensuring comprehensive transport safety. In view of the proposal's view on the issue of transport safety, all too much attention in the law is focused on sharpening criminal policy and reforming so-called criminal law in the Republic of Slovenia, as the proponent wrote. More, but not enough, attention was given by the applicant to measures to limit speed, to measures to educate young drivers, to measures to limit speed as the main cause of many serious fatalities. All too little is regulated by the legal proposal and related equipment, which is a key factor in road safety in the Republic of Slovenia. Safe and modernly equipped roads, marked and equipped according to modern knowledge, are at least as regards local roads, which are also the largest and requiring the highest blood tax, only utopia with the established method of financing municipalities to care for the maintenance of transport roads. Unfortunately, the state of roads, local and regional, worse and, as a result, we have also seen a trend in the decline in the number of traffic accidents and fatalities; not least, this is shown in the latest data. The state of transport infrastructure and equipment does not give adequate and sufficient attention to the legal proposal. It is also questionable to set up a public road safety agency to carry out preventive and educational tasks such as the aim of the applicant. However, this establishment makes sense only in such a way as to finance the operation of this Agency, which will not depend on the entities to be coordinated and supervised by that Agency, since otherwise it is not expected to produce results that are conditional on the independence of the Agency. In view of the lack of time, I would just like to say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, despite all the concerns and compromises and partial solutions that you have put into the road transport safety law through the amendments adopted, we will not, however, oppose the adoption of this law, because it nevertheless brings some solutions and alignment with the acquis of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. Quiet Run gets the word. He will give the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister, representatives of the government! The development of the automotive industry, road infrastructure and lifestyles has an impact on the continuous increase in road traffic and unfortunately also on the number of accidents, including those involving loss of human lives and serious injuries. Transport safety in Slovenia improved from 1994 to this year. Unfortunately, the data from the Ministry of Transport Safety for the beginning of this year show that the number of accidents has increased, particularly by 42%, to a fatal accident. The main objective of our national road safety programme and also the proposed law is to reduce the number of deaths due to accidents. This is the goal that we want to achieve with the help of the new law as soon as possible, and in the long term we want to see as few accidents as possible or to be without such a fatal outcome. To date, the amendments to the Road Safety Act have always had a positive impact on transport safety, but unfortunately not with sufficient lasting effects. The applicant has therefore drawn up solutions that are expected to contribute to future positive effects in the area of road safety and efficiency. The proposed law is intended to ensure greater road safety, notably with a new focus on coordination of preventive safety activities. In particular, it is intended to ensure greater safety among young drivers by ensuring that the driver’s licence can be obtained at 16 and a half years of age, provided that the young driver drives only when the driver is present until the age of 18. It is intended to ensure greater efficiency of the system and services to the citizen, in particular so that the registration and technical checks of vehicles can be carried out in each administrative unit, irrespective of the permanent residence of the vehicle owner. It is intended to provide greater control over organisations involved in the education of candidates and organisations carrying out technical inspections of vehicles, registration and approval. It is important for vehicle owners to ensure that the new European standards do not require an exchange of registration plates. Although the news will be a license plate that will monitor the car from the first registration until decommissioning. Driver's licenses for the adoption of the law will also not have to be changed and the driver's license will apply until the driver's age is 80. Changes are also envisaged in criminal policy. In particular, the law seeks to ensure a faster response to violations, faster conduct of infringement proceedings, fewer cases of obsolete cases and greater fines at the time of offences. All these measures for transport participants are obviously not welcome, but they will provide greater discipline and thus greater transport safety, which is a key objective for all transport participants. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will also support the draft law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u125	Thank you very much. To the words of the winner, Jelinčič Plmenite, for the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Once again, we have one of the laws that points to the poor work of the Ministry of the Interior. A third of several amendments, such as the articles themselves, have been tabled on this law, indicating nonconsistency, ignorance and great volunteerism, I could say, even ignorance in the drafting of this law. What did we get with this marriage? Certainly nothing or very little for security, but the police power has increased the most. The police will be able to afford a lot of money, and above all, the penalties are so drastic that at a time when people don't have money for food, the cops will beat them up. Not only police officers, municipal officials will be able to afford it, and by order of the mayor, they will be able to set up radar stations, where they will enjoy it, and they will be punished long and hard. One feels that the United List of Social Democrats is simply and only to introduce some kind of police state system where their ministers and their secretaries would possibly raise money for pre-election meetings and political events. Slovenia already has almost twice as many police officers per thousand inhabitants as any other European country. And now we're going to introduce red tape officers in all the congregations, and we're going to give them no authority. I think one can only smile at this and wonder about the mental abilities of the one who wrote these laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u127	My friend Victory! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u128	But they succeeded in something - but they succeeded in removing Slovenian coats of arms from Slovenian plates, and now they will push up some Slovenian coat of arms, which is not even Slovenian, which is not a winner or coat of arms. And I don't know if they've even looked at whether the use of the so-called Slovenian coat of arms on the plates is even in line with the coat of arms, flag and anthem. The second issue was - I hope that with the new amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy to Article 131, which we will support in the Slovenian National Party, that foolish measurement of the width of ocular pupils with pupillometers will fall away. What's so funny we only saw in the American elections when they were looking at where those holes were, and then certain judges found out whether the hole was a little bit higher or a little bit lower, and in this way they tamed Mr Bush's election victory. This is how our cops are going to do it, and I don't know how they're going to educate them, given that some drugs are spreading ocular pupils, some are going to revive them, etc., so that they don't get too involved in these things that the gentlemen of the Ministry of Home Affairs probably don't even understand. But they certainly didn't go to fix things in the area where they were supposed to fix them. For instance. If they get an alcoholic driver, a professional driver on any other vehicle, it'll be a bicycle in a short time, they'll get him drunk on a bicycle, they'll take away all the categories for driving, both for the tractor, for the bus, for the truck, etc., a little cartoon, but that's what's gonna happen if they get him alcoholized on a moped. No, it doesn't matter. It is important that they impose fines to strange heights and give congregation officials more authority. I think that in such a marriage a person can only smile or laugh as in previous laws the Minister laughed at those discussers here for this speaker. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the law because there are some good solutions for the power of the solution, however, but you can be sure that on the first opportunity we will try to change those foolish solutions that the United List of Social Democrats has written for itself and that they want to bring the police state and police terror back to Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u129	Thank you, Victory. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be given by Ivan Mamić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u130	I welcome all those present on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members! Road safety is one of the challenges of modern society, which is increasingly entangled in our everyday lives. On the one hand, it is marked by the enormous technological development of cars and roads, on the other hand traffic accidents and the loss of human lives. Despite the entry into force of the new Road Safety Act in 1998 and the number of deaths on our roads in seven years has dropped by a third, we cannot and must not attach great importance to the law at this time. During this time, a few kilometres of motorways were built and, most importantly, citizens invested a large amount of money in improving the fleet and thus in their security. Amendments to the law are necessary. The features of the current law and the proposed law are mainly in the increase of the sentence, even by 100%, due to the safety belt, mobile phones and so on, based on the repression itself. Thus, the government sees improvements in transport security mainly through fines, although we citizens do not claim to be able to improve transport culture in a civilized way. This law concerns every participant in traffic, pedestrian, cyclist, motorist, tractor, motor vehicle driver. Marriage will have to be taught by each of them or by us. This proposal for a law is unsystematic, complex, and governs any minimum detail of the behaviour of participants in transport. And what should be the law? Simple and systematic so everyone can understand it. He's not just a mess, he's a bureaucrat. Because when I read paragraphs and articles, things are also being renewed, let's say a 10-mile sentence is three times renewed in two articles, a diction. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that such an increase in the fine is not necessary to help improve traffic safety, which is why we have also tabled amendments, which some have taken over. Unfortunately, there weren't enough of these. And why do we feel that way in New Slovenia? I'll give you some examples. Let's just look at the most common offenses and penalties for them, and compare them with those in Switzerland, because we like to follow the countries that are in the European Union as much as Slovenia has since 1 May. For riding a biker at night without lights is in Switzerland, I'll talk in tolars, 6. 200 tolars, and we have 20,000 tolars, so more than three times more. For driving a car at night with no lights, 10 grand and 30 grand with us. For speeding up to 10 kilometers measured in the village, you pay 6,200 in Switzerland, and 10,000 tolars. For driving through the red light at the traffic light, there is a penalty of 40,000 in Switzerland, 60 thousand in Switzerland. If you're not tied to security, to security, there's a fine of 10,000 in Switzerland and 20,000 in Switzerland. Improper use of mobile phones in Switzerland costs 16,000 and we have 20,000. Why are we not comparing ourselves with the European Union or the countries of the European Union after road traffic accidents? If the penalty is a criterion for accidents, that is to say, we should reduce our penalties. It might be a good idea to try. But it is also true that the penalties in Switzerland for speeding are higher than those in Switzerland. So if we compare theirs and our punishments and take into account that they have at least twice the standard, we see that our punishments are astronomical. So destructive, not educational. There is no need for repression and astronomical punishment in Switzerland for their transport safety and culture. True, they live on a higher cultural level than we do, but there are many things that could be done. What kind of solutions would that be? I'm sorry for a few more seconds. Motorways contribute greatly to better traffic safety as it has been shown that there are 6 to 7 times fewer traffic accidents in the area. Nevertheless, the tolls are constantly being auctioned. It is necessary to pay 1,840 to drive from Ljubljana to Maribor, while the annual vignette for Swiss motorways costs 4,000 tolars. Driving on the freeway should be stimulating, which is far from ours. Second, culture is not acquired through repression, but through education [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to society and, not least, to a school. [[...]] Right now, among young people, the law in force has cut off the worst since the number of accidents and casualties has dropped. The reason for this is more, than the rebellion of young people, the need for self-assurance, lifestyle, easy and sudden compensation for youth failures. Now that I'm running out of time, I'd just like to ask one more question about the municipal editors. Who will pay these municipal officials, the state responsible for the work, or the congregation because they work at the municipal level? If the municipality pays for this, then it's just another contribution to centralisation, which is too big anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u131	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We will guide it on the basis of a review of the amendments of 14.6.2004, noting that the amendment to Article 158 of the LDS Club of Members has been withdrawn, for which you have also received written material. You'll get your word on the amendments. I am moving on to Article 14 and the amendment to Article 14 tabled by the Parliamentary Group or the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Comrade Dusan Wolf has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u132	Thank you, Chairman. The main reason for this amendment was already given in the presentation of the Group's position. Because of the poor preparation for the speech, I have not been able to say anything else, and I would take advantage of it quickly. Of course, there are still concerns about the relevance of the solution relating to the performance of speed measurements in fixed-speed settlements. Then the view prevailed that this would remain within the existing law because one part of the parliamentary group felt that this could, of course, contribute to the smoothing of traffic in settlements. Of course, when we calm down traffic in settlements, we also increase safety in areas where speed is particularly a burning problem. Of course, we note that these devices should not be a means of filling municipal budgets, but should only be placed in places where such moderation is necessary, meaningful. But where these cities are, I am afraid that everyone, especially the locals, will say the people of the individual communities. This may mean a certain problem for the congregations because a request will arise, and they have a legitimate right to place these devices where they want them. Which means that in some ways it also means a cost to the congregations, which, of course, does not seem to be the most predictable in relation to the law. There is still a certain dilemma around this. I personally tend to the solution that if so, then it is necessary to clearly write down where it should be, but for this we still have time in third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the Minister because he has applied for the debate and wants to discuss this article as well. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Although I also wanted to discuss some other issues, it seems that, according to the rules of procedure, there is no possibility that a person would respond to some of the incorrect information that has been given here today in relation to the traffic security of Slovenia, as well as to some of the insults that have been made here, and some unfortunate attempts to bring politics into transport security, which is, of course, something impossible and unworthy. But if I could only discuss this provision, I'd say the following. The government will not oppose the reduction of the delegated powers of the editors. However, I must say that we regret that such an attitude in the parliamentary group that has proposed this is because we believe that with the proposed regulated system of red tape in Slovenia we are introducing an additional very important tool for ensuring road safety at the municipal level. If the proposal can already be supported and there can be no explanation, as Mr Vukko put it, that is, it is not true that municipal police are being introduced, it is not true that the police are being burdened by the way in which the editors are being introduced, that the police are withdrawing and reducing their tasks in any way. Nowhere in this report can you find the basis for something like this. You can't find a basis nor on behalf of a local, city, municipal or any police force, nor can you find a basis for the police to exercise to a lesser extent those powers entrusted to the officials in Article 14 of the new law. Of course, it is always a matter of judgment, including political judgment, including an opinion that relates to the public's perception of this issue, which is legitimate, so the government will not object. However, it will certainly oppose any further entrenchment of the powers of the municipal editors, as this means a new step towards diminishing the importance of this additional tool for providing security at the municipal level. Remember, dear colleague and colleague, that the most accidents are at local level. That, at local level, through the increased responsibility of mayors, through orderly regulation, a skilled directorate, we can make a significant contribution to this percentage that you have criticised, this poor level of traffic safety in Slovenia being improved. If we are for greater traffic safety, let us also be suitable tools. And also a question that has been explicitly asked, and at the same time, the judgment that it is centralism. In the Law of the Congregation Ministry, if you have seen it [[He's already in the National Assembly.]] , it is envisaged that the revenue from the fines charged by the directors, the revenue of the municipal budget and this is the basis for funding, i.e. 100% of the total. It is not a matter of imposing certain new tasks for which there is no financial basis; this is explicitly stated in the law on municipal law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u135	Thank you. Janez Komlian has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Vice President. I myself will support this amendment to Article 14, and I am not thinking about the editors somehow accepting the tasks that the police have, but practically, I will say, from practice - I must say that I have been introducing red tape in the congregation. Maybe Ljubljana needs this, I won't get involved in this - it is necessary to know that Slovenia has mostly smaller cities and these people who do red tape know all these locals. We have problems in the congregations, so one who has powers and who can send a citizen to a judge for offences usually has to have someone from another congregation in the workplace for that reason. I also talked to my editors about this and they don't want to have such powers, police powers, except for what we've written down here. Let me tell you, problems with some drivers are day and night. An example of bullying, where traffic is limited to 30 kilometers per hour, is also affected by traffic signs at night on these bullying grounds. By installing the radars, I will say just after home, which will take photos of the too fast drivers in these places, where at night they also cause noise and danger to the pedestrians, as far as they are concerned, is what I actually agree, because they expect to know exactly who broke up and who was doing something. This is about transport safety in settlements and cities. So I think that as far as current collection is concerned, it goes to the municipal budget, and also the editorial service - these are not public servants. This does not belong to the administration, if I say so, but is also financed by other means, especially from the funds collected from the offences. That is how I think that this needs to be understood in particular by smaller cities. But we also know that there will be no more editorial services. It is currently prescribed in the city’s municipalities and is also implemented there. So I think that the three, four measures proposed by this amendment should be supported and that at least at this stage they would be useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u138	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, we are talking about the amendments and we are now talking about the amendments to Article 14.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u139	The amendment to Article 14 is under discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u140	All well and well of the municipal authorities, but perhaps the honourable Mr Minister, you know that the law was removed yesterday from the agenda of this meeting, namely the Law on municipal registrarship, which should also be linked to this article in the transport law. Let's drop it. The law, article 14, is not bad, but why not change what has been expressed in doubt and what is still to be expressed in doubt. To me, there is a personal doubt as to how editors can measure speeds with fixed gauges and what to do with them. I'll tell you from practice, I'm lucky or bad luck that I'm also mayor. In front of dangerous places where schools are located, in accordance with the legislation in force, we have placed lying cops and outflows that have calmed traffic. We've taken preventive action. Let me know if the warden sets up or if we're gonna have a camera, what are we gonna do about it? The camera will record someone driving 70 kilometers an hour, say, but we're not gonna do anything about it, and we're gonna punish someone if we do. Another problem with the municipal authorities is and it is right that they have their powers on municipal, local roads and it is right to act. But on the other hand, let me tell you, in a congregation of 20,000 people, today, if we go now to ask, let's just say your option, which, unfortunately, in the opposition, does not allow you to hire editors. On the one hand, we give our powers to the editors; on the other hand, we take the law because we leave, but it is connected, the municipal officials out; on the other hand, we have obstacles to hiring these officials at all. That's why we're here in this national council to coordinate. That is why I think that Mr Dušan Vukko meant well, I, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, particularly on my behalf, agree to harmonise and see if it is better to set up lying cops or if it is better to set up drains where possible, whether it is better to install these cameras. I don't think it's a big deal if this article, as long as it's possible to amend it, we're turning it into a benefit and a good thing for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u141	Thank you. Leo Kremjar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm a little weird, but I don't want to be rude about the minister's performance. I would expect that all that the Minister has said, what should be done, and where the usefulness of this idea is to protect people, I fully agree with it, but this is the task of the police after my judgment and no one else. I am absolutely opposed to introducing any controversies, even if they are not called, but they could be the inventions of some local police. See, we have in this amendment, and I hope that I will convince colleagues and colleagues that we will continue to amend this amendment until the third reading, we have written, inter alia: In carrying out those tasks, the municipal editors shall lay down fines and warnings and shall exercise the powers and measures conferred on them by this and other laws, and the measures laid down under the rules of procedure. Gentlemen, I'm the mayor. I don't want to have the chance to prescribe my own regulations, now I'm telling the local police what it's gonna do and what it's gonna do and what it's gonna do. That's one. Second, the radars, the speed gauges we're talking about to be set by the congregations. I am for the municipalities to co-finance if the police do not have enough money to find the system, but to keep it within the profession, so that it will be professionally placed where the expert says it will be professionally supervised and that everything will be carried out as an expert. In this case, the profession is the police, not the mayor, not the municipal council. So let's not put things on someone who's motivated to do that. I agree here, and when it comes to security, nothing is too expensive, and it is right that the municipalities also help to do so and that they also cooperate with financial resources, I agree. But the system isn't right, according to my judgment. That's why I think we should absolutely do this and those wishes of some, including the mayors, probably to have our local sheriffs and local police, have to be wiped out. And there's one more thing. If we write this down, there will be pressure on municipal councillors, municipal councils, mayors, every street will want its radar justified. We're gonna have a lot more damage than the benefits of that. I agree that it is necessary to strengthen the police, if there is too little, to give more money to the police for these matters, not as I have heard that it is anticipated that the purchase of only one radar, a speed gauge, is scheduled for next year. That's right. And also through municipal funds, where matters are critical. But not the new police and the new cops in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Franz Lenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I would touch on this debate, which has now been under way, by carrying out speed measurements in fixed scaled settlements. If we leave this matter to the local communities, what has happened with the setting of the village's tables will happen. In the environment from which I come we have a case, not just one, but more, where there is a sign of the place at least 200 meters ahead of the settlement. And how did they determine this place? The border of the cathedral municipality was and the local community forced her to put a traffic sign there. It is said that on the other side of this camera it will deploy in such a way that they will not be able to be technically justified. Here I join Mr Kremjar's opinion that they should stay here in time to put themselves where they really need to be, but not leave it to the local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u145	Dušan Wolf, then Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u146	Thank you. Dear Minister, I represented the position of the LDS Club, where this argument prevailed for the most part. Your opinion is as legitimate as ours. Of course, I was talking about covert introductions. Why would I hide it? Or through the side door, as I pointed out. Because if we're talking about powers that are typical of the police, if we're talking about tasks that are the police's tasks, then that actually means local police, but it's not, and I agree with that, because it doesn't say anything. And I agree, you made it clear on the committee that this is not a police retreat, but I will tell you one case. Not far back, the police also monitored traffic, parked vehicles. That's become a big problem. They began to be established in the mid-1980s by the municipal authorities. Today, the situation is this: a uniformed police officer is easily passing the wrong parked vehicles because he knows that this is the jurisdiction of the municipal registries. If I could show today how many of all 600,000 fines have been imposed for incorrect parking, I bet this percentage is insignificant and that's why we delete the control of bikers. As a result, it means a few years later, that even when the police see the biker in one way or another, or on foot, they're "machots", it's not our bet, it's a local thing in cities and it'll pass. Of course, when there's an accident, he'll have to come over. But that's the fear. We can also start talking about the introduction of local police, but in the way that this has been done in other countries, although Europe, we can see that this is more an exception than a rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u147	Thank you. Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I understand the attempt to introduce municipal registries and the transfer of certain powers in terms of police powers, as part of the provision and implementation of the law on safety and road transport, as well as one way of correcting what has happened in the past when you shut down police stations in smaller places, which was certainly wrong because now the presence of those preventive police presences is simply gone. Now I'm going to say another thing you dared say. Mr Minister, from your implementation, when you said that funding for municipal directors was also provided, you would not be able to fully understand your view of the work of the police. To be quoted as being able to pay you. So, I'll say, you're explaining how to finance municipal editors. Now, I'm asking you, how is there and in those congregations where the warden is going to be, there's not going to be a violator about how he's going to finance himself. How's he going to fund himself? And if police work were to be slightly less standardised and more targeted in the preventive direction, the results of traffic safety - although we know that only in some parts can they affect traffic safety - would probably be significantly greater. It would be necessary to consider the introduction and the dispersion of police stations, the introduction of municipal police officers, but not municipal police officers as municipal officials, but as civil servants. In any case, however, they will live very badly if they are financed only from fines that can be collected in a congregation where people are aware of their adherence to traffic regulations. And according to your explanation, there will be a moment when there will be no more misdemeanors, this red or cop without profit. It doesn't hold.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u149	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u150	This debate is somewhat underestimating to the police. Firstly, police officers have substantially broader powers and tasks as provided for in Article 14. The comparison of municipal officials with police officers is directly misleading, and I would say even underestimating to the police. Dear colleagues, I would ask you not to use such comparisons and not to speak of the municipal police. You don't have a basis for that anywhere. If you have an expression in the law written down by the municipal or local police, show it to me, I don't think you'll see it, which means it's not. And don't speak pejoratially about the police, and don't diminish their powers in such a way that they only do the work of the editors. That's one. Second. Connecting this to the restructuring of the police has no rational basis. The police reorganisation was created in 1999 by covering the ground, not only from offices, but also through police patrolling in places where departments were abolished. An analysis of this organizational overhaul has already been carried out, we have identified certain weaknesses, we intend to eliminate them, we already have a proposal in this regard. But not with the municipal registrar. This has nothing to do with the congregation. Replacing the organisational shortcomings of the police by educating municipal authorities is simply the result of ignorance or lack of knowledge of this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u151	Thank you. Bogdan Barovich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u152	I'm sorry about the funding. I think it is very principled to provide the municipalities, which is what you often demand, and you rightly and justly insist that if the municipalities are entrusted with any tasks, in this case they do not even trust each other, because according to the law on municipal government there is only an optional option, which means that nothing is owed to the additional congregation. That it's right to provide resources. These are not resources for the survival of municipal editors, but are sources of funding by which the municipality can cover this activity from its budget. Any other display of this is not too well-meaning. We are not now talking about whether to offer municipalities a tool to take over part of the activity for better traffic safety. At this point, although the national road safety programme explicitly states that more needs to be done at the municipal level for greater safety, they do not have specific tools for the municipality. Now we're offering them these tools. It is simply a matter of whether we want more security to be at the municipal level or not. By abolishing the competences of the Road Safety Act, we will remove the tools to ensure safety at municipal level. I said that the government would not oppose this amendment, but any further suspension of the powers of the municipal editors, because we feel that this would allow us to take on greater security at the municipal level.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u153	Bogdan Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Secretary, it's a good thing this debate got heated. Personally, as Member of the Slovenian National Party and as Mayor, I support the importance and role [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Yes, no, I think we're talking about serious matters without considering one another, I mean, I don't want to, no, there's Minister We want to, but it's also connected to the Ministry of the Interior. [[...]] On the other hand, the law, if you look closely at it, about public servants, and if a municipality had no choice to hire a director, it cannot. We need him because we need him. That's right, but we hired him through public works, through some contracts and so on. We're hunting for something that's stipulated in this law. It means that the law on municipal law, the law on civil servants and, of course, this law are not harmonised if we adopt it. Let's settle this, let's make a deal, let's be fair to each other. Secondly, you are right, the municipal director can greatly help to regulate traffic, hugely. However, the congregation editor, we need to know that he has other obligations. At least I think so, because it says in the indent that it must also carry out the measures that have been taken by law, by law and so on. We need to know that, too. And for the third time, I'd like to say, we'll be happy if you do a test, an example: no laws, no decrees. When the police leadership in our congregation changed, we had already taken a concerted action twice, without wondering whose road is that, whose road is that, why you there, why he there. No, we agreed together and we did a joint action and traffic control - everything that was written here. This is proof that it is the right thing to do, but we want - and here I also support colleagues and colleagues from the liberal democracy - that this 14th article is designed to give the municipality a valid, meaningful and, of course, possibility, because 192 municipalities are very different in size. I don't think it's right for you to get upset, Mr. Secretary, if you're, uh, comparing, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're upset, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, Mr. Leo Kremjar was right, too. In certain, yesterday, when we spoke, the authorities, as he said in a joke, became municipal directors of the local sheriffs. If it were accepted that he could carry a weapon, and I don't know what, then that's really nonsense, but today we're saving traffic. And there's something else I'd like to suggest. I estimate that the speed meter, which exists at some ends of Slovenia, is not a radar that does not have control and penal functions, but warns: 'you drive at speed, I don't know, that much and that many kilometers per hour', an excellent solution on those many critical points. Not just in the country, but in every congregation. I propose, if possible, I apologize, so in detail I do not know this law, that this speed gauge, which warns 'you drive at speed', is probably also cheaper, less costs, has no penal function, has a warning function to introduce it into the law and would be - if possible, I don't know - obligatory on critical points which, of course, absolutely experts in traffic know, also this is a proposal. I see that today's debate on this law is a debate that has the same objective of finding common solutions that will actually contribute to everyone's well without arguing, politically comparing some political origins and so on. There are certain positions where we can politically get involved, but if we are talking about these things, I suggest we find some consensus that will mean security and reliability and, above all, modernisation in road transport. So I will address the amendment to article 131, where I can also say that we have somehow together, regardless of the political option, found one solution for which I hope it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u155	Thank you. I give the word "silvy nigger."
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. I believe that it is perfectly normal for municipal officials and the way in which they operate to upset the public, and even members of the National Assembly, given that there are quite a number of them, who are also mayoral or parishioners, city councilors or municipal councilors. In Ljubljana, I can say that we have a number of years of relatively good implementation practices, editorial services. It was established by a municipal decree, since the community of the congregations then recommended the matter according to the example of all European cities. Of course, there are dilemmas as to how and how to carry out this work. The service must work very intensively with the Ministry of the Interior. The more the service is organised and the more it participates, the greater the traffic security will be. Surely, however, the basic function of these municipal editors is not only the traffic safety of citizens, but they have, at all, the security and sighting of the urban environment and the city itself, as well as the behaviour of individuals, not least, whether other decisions adopted in the field of local communities, in particular the cities, are implemented as they were adopted. Not to mention vegetables, not to mention warnings. However, the organisation and the manner in which this service is organised, the number of employees, the change, the distribution of these in relation to individual loads in certain parts of the city are problematic and also depends on the management skills of the one who runs this editorial service. I think it is very positive that we follow the good experiences of European cities with red tape in this way. But let us not follow those rare exceptions that try to move one way to other continents by example to different prices of films, etc. I think it is good to follow, above all, the view of the red tape service in cooperation with the supervision and improvement of traffic safety at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on the amendment to Article 14? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 14 and the amendment tabled by the LDS. I'm moving on to Article 20a. The amendment was also tabled by the LDS. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 20a and the amendment. I am moving on to Article 52 and the amendment to this Article. It is also invested by the LDS. Who wants a word? Comrade Dushan Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u158	We propose to supplement this Article on the basis of an opinion. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs does not fully cover all persons who may park in the designated parking space for the disabled. This amendment includes persons who, due to loss, impairment or paralysis of the lower limbs or pelvis, have recognised at least 80% of the body's damage, persons with multiple sclerosis and persons with muscle and nervous disorders with estimated at least 30% of the body's damage as they are motion-inhibited. In the proposed new fourth indents, persons who do not have recognised invalidity status shall also be included among the beneficiaries of parking in the designated parking spaces. This part seems very important to me. This is because reference to specific laws according to our assessment is really not necessary, it is not clear about the right of parents of children who have special needs and who are physically hampered. Children under the age of 18 do not recognize or receive disability status. Reference to the Children's Guidance Act with special needs is also not taken into account because of integrated education. Therefore, the fourth indent should be amended to include accompanying companions who are driving and accompanying a minor who is severely or mentally affected or who are prevented from paralyzing the lower limbs or from moving. If I add one more thing, with the countless unparked vehicles we see today in this Slovenia, it seems to me whether in places where it may not really be necessary, it seems right to include these people and not to walk here, what this means from the point of view of incorrect parking. It is a few thousand people in Slovenia, and if not the other, these children need to be protected to the extent that the companion also parks in this place. On the Committee, we also supported that provision, which I think is very good, and here the Committee and all Members must recognize some sensitivity to this issue that those who have these stickers are also in some way equal to those who perform intervention services, so that they can park on the sidewalk for up to two hours. Of course, we understand that this label was previously given only to those who are truly entitled.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u159	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? A colleague of Zupanov's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the amendment to Article 52, I would also like to make my own contribution, in this regard, that our transport system is still largely based on fear of punishment. According to statistics that we can read, police officers carry out between 600 and 700,000 measures annually and punish some 600,000 drivers and turn them over to the judge for offences. So in one year, they punish every other driver. I wonder if the amendment also refers to fines punishable by drivers for offences, whether actually increased penalties can change the driver's attitude towards driving and thus contribute to greater security. At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister how many fines were charged last year if he holds this information that 600,000 drivers are being punished and how many were actually paid. We know that a whole group of people, say, students, Roma, don't pay any fines. I think you'll be able to give us that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Minister, would you like to answer that question? But it's not about this amendment. No one wants to discuss Article 52 and the amendment anymore. I conclude the debate on this Article and the amendment tabled. I'm moving on to Article 91. The LDS Member Club has tabled an amendment to this Article. Who wants a word? Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u162	Dear Vice President! This amendment is nicely said to be strange and cannot be claimed or proposed by the amendment under no circumstances, I am sure that it cannot find an excuse that the implementation of this amendment is any contribution or contribution to higher traffic safety. See, it's already a terrible mess because you haven't set up some network, some reasonable network of stations or workshops where technical checks are carried out, to eliminate a limited certain age of vehicles for the transport of children under the pretext that they are subject to a technical checkup, which I have just discovered is a particular mess because you lost your hands and suddenly we have too many workshops that have the power to carry out technical inspections. They simply cannot support themselves, or it will be by eliminating the technical checks of older vehicles that make things worse. Leaving the "correction" of old vehicles for the transport of school children or not limiting the age of vehicles in which our children are driving is simply and politely irresponsible. I understand the hardship of bus carriers of large bus carriers, which are in the past, I will also say that they have abused the fact that this limitation of age has occurred. However, because of other details or other matters, these same carriers have now found themselves in an unenviable situation because of the old fleet in order to save their skin at the expense of children’s safety, this kind of thing is not going well, to say the least. I strongly oppose this amendment. The arrangements must be maintained in any way. This is where you're going towards less traffic safety if you land and agree with this amendment. In any case, it is necessary to maintain the current arrangement in order to maintain and maintain some prescribed age of vans, buses used to drive our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u164	First answer, honourable Members. Statistics show that approximately 60%, 600,000 fines have been fined. That's the answer you wanted. We assume, however, that, on the basis of the system we are now introducing, where a substantial number of penalties will be imposed by police officers and less by the criminal judge, however, this rate will be significantly higher. Now for the debate of Comrade Sušnik. In the first part, when it comes to the fact that we have too many service organisations carrying out technical checks and citing arguments in this regard, of course I do not agree. We do not have enough, but we must look, not from the point of view of service organisations, but from the point of view of the user of the technical review. And as long as they're species before the technical checks, they'll be too few from this address. We will endeavour to ensure that this service, the technical review, is, as far as possible, on the largest possible scale and is, in fact, increasing the supply of this market through the system we are introducing. It stretches to car salesmen and so on. Thus, in the context of the open market in this area, a calculation of how much is being paid. But we have to look from the point of view of the user. As for your second position, I strongly agree with him. The government opposes this amendment. We are also against the fact that the age, which is an additional restriction, for buses carrying children is removed from the law. We consider it necessary to stay. A technical review is not sufficient as a guarantee of the infallibility of technical checks or it is right that, when it comes to such a sensitive issue as the transport of children, an additional guarantee remains, this is a prohibition that the vehicle is older than the number of years prescribed by the law. That's 12 years now. The future ban on such a legal basis for driving the fear of buses that will be older than 12 years will be very likely. We have some accidents in this area when the bus crashed with the children, and it was just prior to technical examination and was over 12 years old. Suddenly, the brakes were off. I warn you to accept this amendment and thus take responsibility for any bus accident in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u165	Thank you. Comrade Dushan Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u166	As a member of the parliamentary group, I will vote against this amendment, although I believe that the basic element, ensuring that a vehicle is technically flawless, is not just age. If this amendment were adopted, the Minister shall have the power under this provision to clearly define equipment and other conditions by means of a sub-legislative act. If we go to individual safety segments, we can find that one of the normal requirements is that the vehicle is transported if the bus is equipped with ABS. Of course, to be more sure, it would not be good if we took the children to school with a bus of the type "when it sings" because otherwise it could be technically flawless, but it is controversial. That's why I think we keep it. I missed myself, and I debated on the committee in this direction to write down what age this is without leaving it to the minister, anyone, then to arbitrate what age this is. But that's another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Doesn't anybody want to talk about it anymore? Joze Azhitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. If I understand Mr Wolf correctly, he will oppose this amendment because he estimates that the traffic safety of children's vehicles is being reduced if the amendment is adopted. On the other hand, I am of the opinion that, in particular, if the words "exceeding the prescribed age" are deleted in the second paragraph, in order to actually tighten the condition, because in this case the phrase will look as follows: "A bus carrying a group of children must, in addition to regular preventive technical checks," no matter how old the vehicle is. This is even a more difficult condition, but of course it will follow the rule issued by the minister. Thus, I do not see any particular danger if this amendment is adopted, or I believe that even the impact on the assessment of the ability of a bus carrying children will be too acute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I no longer see the panellists, so I am concluding the debate on Article 91. We turn to Article 118, to which the first-signed Leopold Kremjar group has tabled an amendment. The word Leopold Kremjar wants. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u170	Very briefly. Security is never enough. Therefore, my proposal or group of Members that we have tabled the amendment to delete Article 14, paragraph 118, which states: "Lights on light traffic signal devices shall not be flashing, except for red flashing lights on the light sign at the crossing..." and so on. It is simply that we have so-called lights with flashing green lights, followed by an orange light and then comes red. So the two guards that the red light is going to happen, this 14th point removes one of these fuses and says: no more flashing of the green light, but just turn on the orange light. I object to this, and if, Mr Molan, because I see that he has already applied, mentioned the 1968 Vienna Convention, I must say that this is a long way off and that there was a little less light and a little less traffic when they wrote this Vienna Declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Molan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I would mention three reasons why the Government or the proposer does not support this amendment. The first reason is because you already have two systems in place in the Republic of Slovenia. If I give an example to two regions, i.e. the Ljubljana region, where we have a flashing green light on the traffic lights, and the Maribor region where there are no green flashing lights on the traffic lights. In Slovenia, therefore, this practice is dual. We believe there is a need to make order here and to put in place a uniform practice. Second reason. In the field of transport safety, very little analysis or professional monitoring of the effects of individual transport measures has been carried out in Slovenia. Just in the field of green flashing light, an analysis of traffic accidents was carried out in Ljubljana between 1982 and 1984, which showed that the green glowing light is significantly more dangerous than the constant heat. The number of raids is increasing and the consequences of such accidents are worse due to higher speed. Above all, because of the acceleration in green flashing lights, where even a more distant driver can see and accelerate the green light to come into the green light, the consequences of side collisions are twice as bad as if a permanent green light were on fire. However, I will mention a third reason, which is this Vienna Convention, which expressly prohibits, in Article 23 of the Third Chapter, a flashing green light on the tricolour light. These are the reasons why we do not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Leo Kremjar has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, I am pleased to invite you to Maribor for a shimmering green light, so that you will see that in Maribor it also beats. Secondly, the Vienna Convention has been since 1968, it's been a long time, I don't know why we've stuck to the lights and why we didn't turn them off before, if that's true. Third. What you're explaining about safety and danger is your explanation of how you think this is a matter. This, of course, could also be said to be not so, but that it is quite the opposite if, at higher speeds in cities, which are higher and higher every day, only the orange light is suddenly lit, that there is a greater risk of collision, than if a person has been warned earlier by flashing green, and then there comes the warning orange, and then there comes the red one. Two guards instead of one. You claim that one of the guards was better protected than two guards. I don't think so, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 118. We're moving on to Article 131. The LDS Club has tabled an amendment to Article 131. Who wants a word? Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u176	Thank you, Chairman. The Slovenian national party has proposed an amendment to Article 131, explicitly so that a police officer can carry out a test by means of drugs, psychoactive drugs or other psychoactive substances that reduce his ability to drive. Why should he explicitly do so by means of means or devices? Because, for the first time, the number of people who are influenced by such or otherwise, let's call them a circle larger. Secondly, because the basic law provides, as far as we can see, for example, for a police officer's request to establish a suspicion of professional review, which costs about 120,000 tolars according to our data. Thirdly, devices that exist, so-called "Second Wipe," cost 10,000 tolls according to our data. And the fourth time. We cannot in any way agree in the Slovenian National Party on the fact that a police officer, with all due respect for his profession, is able to identify and conclude some facts. This will solve the simple problem, as with alcohol as well as drugs, insert an immediate test with the "Other Wipe" device, which is reliable in large percentages. This article or amendment, which we will decide on, has also been written by colleagues from the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, who, in the original part, remain closer to the original and give the police the opportunity to carry out the procedure and give them the opportunity to carry it out with these devices. Okay, they've also spread some facts. If we make an amendment, the amendment will achieve that the review of such hazards will be the same by effect and by approach as for alcoholics, where we have an accurate device that shows that it is the only right way to have a device that is available to a policeman at that time and that can determine whether the presence of alcohol or drugs or medicines containing substances that cause such users to be in danger. I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that this amendment is in this direction, that, of course, the expert team will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 131. Article or amendment to Article 158 shall be withdrawn by the proposers. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 193 tabled by the LDS. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 193. We're moving on to Article 196. The LDS Club has also tabled an amendment to this article. Who wants a word? My colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Of course, the addition of Article 196 to the content itself complements the regulation set out in Article 2 of this Act and complements it in its work by saying that the validity of the traffic sticker expired more than 30 days and so on. I think that one of the important parts of this regulation in terms of ensuring and eliminating bureaucratic barriers or a more friendly environment for consumers is a provision that allows those who drive motor vehicles, when we buy a new one, to register it, to pay compulsory insurance and also compensation for the use of roads, the three benefits we have to pay, and then for three years we will not have to run from the official window to the official window and to the state authorities directly to prove that we have paid compulsory insurance that we have paid compensation for the use of roads, because the technical review obligation has been saved on the basis of the provisions of this law on the new vehicle. Then the technical inspection is required every two years to the seventh year of the vehicle and then to the year of the vehicle. The stickers have been prescribed quite a number of times. Some European practices know them, others do not. However, all good European practices are characterised by something: when it is not necessary to send a citizen to a state office, it should be an administrative unit or an authorised organisation carrying out technical checks, the state administration will do so in a more friendly manner - in a way that sends the post from which the obligation follows. We all know that citizens and citizens pay almost 80% of the taxpayers to pay certain claims within the deadline. There are up to 20% of those who avoid all of this, and we will not stop it if we punish 80% of those who realize that every year it is necessary to pay compulsory insurance and compensation for the use of roads. But the form of how this will be settled will be more friendly and the label that we will be able to get in the first three years of the vehicle for three years is, of course, an important contribution to demobilising administrative procedures in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. I am moving on to Article 201 and to the amendment to this Article. It was filed by the LDS Parliamentary Club. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this Article and the amendment. I am moving on to Article 252.a and the amendment to this Article. A group of MPs, Leopold Kremjar, filed it. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I also conclude this debate. This concludes the debate on articles and amendments. In accordance with the timing of today's meeting, we will decide on the amendments in the framework of the 21.15 vote. With this, I interrupt the agenda item, so we will continue at 21.15 a.m. with the work of the National Assembly under the voting point. Thank you very much for the cooperation of the Minister and the Secretary of State and the co-workers and all of you for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u180	Dear colleagues, good evening! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. I'll ask you first if you're so kind as to check the operation of your voting devices. Is there anything wrong with the voting devices? Then we can make a decision. We're going to break 1. item on the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members of Parliament. In line with Dr Andrej Bajuk's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mramor, to Dr Andrej Bajuk's question on the issue of compensation for abuses that took place at the Triglav Insurance Office. We're voting on the proposal. 72 in attendance, 24 in and 46 in. [[The vote was 24.]] [[46 versus.]] This proposal did not receive the necessary support. In accordance with the proposal, Mag. Janez Drobnič will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy, Dr Matey Lahovnik, to the question of mags. Janez Drobnič in connection with calls for the development of tourist areas in which certain Slovenian regions are neglected. We're voting. Explanation of the vote by the colleague mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u181	I sent a written question to the Minister of Lahovnik, I asked the Minister of Lahovnik an oral question and one and the other form, so he did not answer in writing at all, but he did not give a clear and correct answer to the oral question. What's this all about? The invitation to tender for the promotion of tourist destinations from the European funds and on the basis of this invitation to tender has already excluded a major part of Slovenian areas, geographical areas, in particular those that are less developed. This call provided additional money for more developed areas. This is not in line with the principles of funding from the European Union funds. I also proposed that this invitation to tender should be revoked and supplemented. This call is used in a way that comes sooner than before, so that no comparison can be made between the projects in these offers. Applications are made by some famous companies in the background, which in any case document tourist destinations. If so, then I should have them with my own money, not with the help of European money or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, too, political corruption may be involved. The answer was not appropriate, nor is the Minister's intention a right, not in line with the directives and in line with the principles of ensuring a reduction of the differences between individual regions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u183	Thank you, President. I will support the proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly on Dr Lahovnik's response, because I am very well aware of this issue. I firmly believe that the call, such as this resort, has put into consideration that it is discriminatory, that it is, in particular, clearly written on the skin of some major economic operators in the field of tourism, against the principles of free competition. It is simply scandalous that some Slovenian municipalities are simply excluded from the possibility of running to register their projects. It is a question of what is the wider Alpine area, including the Municipality of Kamnik, Škofja Loka, Železniki, Cerkno, Churches in Gorenjska are in this area. We have also adopted the Alpine Convention, where it is specified exactly what these areas are. This invitation to tender was also contrary to some of the provisions of the invitation to tender itself. On the other hand, I think that the first reply I received as a Member of the Council was incomplete and the only right path for the Government would be for ministers to cancel this call or to complete it. I will therefore support the proposal to hold this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u184	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I will also support the proposal to hold a debate on the discriminatory call issued by Minister Lahovnik. Minister Lahovnik must be stopped as soon as possible in his arrogant conduct. And while I agree that the people have already done quite a lot of punishing in Sunday's elections for such arrogant behaviour and disobedience, but that certain parts are placed in a discriminatory position and that they do not even blink their eyes at such discriminatory policies putting part of the system in that country, it is unacceptable. I was just in a class earlier when Slovenians, an investment expert at BMW, spoke about how only four tourist destinations in Slovenia were known in German newspapers. And this is a further contribution to the fact that half of Slovenia will be discriminated against, that it does not have the possibility to participate in the tenders, even though this situation is already already that some are privileged, others are discriminated against. And I really can't imagine where it's going. At the time of entry into the European Union, when these funds are intended for proper distribution for those who meet the conditions, Minister Močovnik orders that he already has the chosen recipients of these funds, where it is perfectly clear that those who know that they will receive the money on this list already know how they will receive it. For this reason, it has been written on the skin of that call, and I would ask fellow Members not to allow this practice to continue in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u186	Anyone else want a word? My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. See, these are examples, this call is a case where it is clear that we do not absolutely need the law on public procurement. This call is also a case where we do not need a law on coherent regional development. In this way, the allocation of state and European resources means the abuse of virtually all the legal bases that this country has created and by which it wants to bring it into the system in a transparent way and that everyone will have access to public funds on equal terms. This is a typical example when the call was made only to cover all prior lobbyist arrangements and that the funds were directed to those in a political district. I think we need to stop this practice. I support the proposal to hold a debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u188	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We still remember probably back, not long ago, Schuštar's affairs at the Ministry of Economy. How this affair ends is another question. I have already said that lastly, it is likely that all together will be suppressed under the carpet and that large state compensations will be paid to those involved in this affair in order to prove that there is no corruption in Slovenia. However, it is obvious that the practice of poor calls and also, as the majority of Members have noted today, the calls already under way are repeated at the Ministry of the Economy. Old practice simply repeats itself and I have absolutely no objection to someone at the Ministry being a young expert, that he is also very confident, and I have absolutely no objection. That he is rude and arrogant in addition to all the virtues he has, however, is actually unacceptable. And this example of this question of the Member States, and not answering this question, and also the arrogance that has developed in this respect, requires the National Assembly to develop a debate on how the Ministry of the Economy actually allocates funds to individual economic operators and how these aids actually take place. Apparently, they're running through political channels. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u190	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u191	By no means are there any general rules on the basis of which all companies in Slovenia would have exactly the same conditions in order to compete for state resources. [[...]] I think that it is precisely because of these facts that I have mentioned that the debate in the National Assembly is necessary and we demand a proper debate and proper answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u192	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will decide on the proposal for a decision. We're voting! Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. 72 in attendance, 27 in and 45 in. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] The proposal did not receive the necessary support. One last decision under point one. It is Jožet Tanka's proposal that the assembly decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Slavko Gabra, to the question of the question put by his colleague, Jožet Tank, on monitoring the implementation of the rules on the financing of kindergartens." Comrade Tanko, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. The fact is that the area of financing kindergartens and in particular payment of costs for kindergartens is one of the very important issues for Slovenian families as well as for Slovenian municipalities. The fact is that there are many problems in this area with regard to the identification of the assets of those who use this system, and in particular an exceptional problem because this system is extremely standardised. The state prescribes practically everything. It prescribes staff standards, prescribes spatial standards, prescribes child standards in the department, prescribes a system of promotion, sets prices, say fuels, then regulates and prescribes an income scale, orders municipalities to cover losses, orders municipalities to invest and also eliminate depreciation, and eventually adopts a regulation on how to divide funds between parents and between parental payments and between municipal payments. The fact is that payments and burdens are increasing faster than primary consumption in all Slovene municipalities, and that in many cases this problem of payment of kindergartens has already grown into [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u194	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u195	serious local problems. [[...]] This is the case in Lenart, in Tržič, and in many other cases. The fact is that there are initiatives to also allocate funds in a different way in order to transfer payment obligations to another way. I think it would make sense that the debate on how to ensure, in the area of kindergartens, such a way of paying and covering costs as in the field of primary education is very appropriate. At least for the debate. I think it is right that these initiatives, which they are, at least be discussed in this national assembly. The system with which we operate today is extremely weak and also very discriminatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u196	Look, nobody's doing this on purpose. But every tiny chat then turns into a noise that's distracting to the speaker. And I don't think that's fair to him. Someone else wanted a word because they raised their hand. Master Petty Officer, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u197	I will support Mr Tank's proposal to hold a debate on Minister Gabra's response to kindergartens. More and more, we have the opportunity to see this national assembly, with the agreement of the ruling coalition, shifting ever - increasing responsibilities to the congregations. It sets ever more demanding criteria for the functioning of public institutions, including kindergartens. However, it does not provide them with the necessary money to provide services at a satisfactory level. This, of course, reduces the standard of life and rural services. In Ljubljana, of course, the same coalition is ruling as we have in the National Assembly, and other things are going on. The city municipality divided two larger kindergartens into 12 kindergartens, causing a substantial increase in costs. Of course, they needed some jobs for directors, secretaries, accountants and the like. No need at all. In this national assembly, we have considered the law in order not to see such a thing happen, but the bill has been rejected. It's the pressure on your parents again. And, dear fellows, such work is not good, nor does it lead to the quality of kindergartens. If there is something we can do to reduce groups rather than kindergartens, this increases these additional technical costs, and it makes no sense to divide them into more units. Then it is certainly necessary to discuss better solutions to improve the functioning of kindergartens and, at the same time, the lower costs that this entails for citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u198	I take it that the Council of State may decide on a third decision. We're voting. Peace. 67 present, 24 for and 42 for. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] This Decision has not been adopted. The point is closed. For the next three items of the agenda, the National Assembly will decide as the founder. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that in accordance with Article 169 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of all Members, 60 or more, are required to adopt a constitutional law. Please note that the same applies to the adoption of an individual section or article. We are now moving on to item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 43 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Section 1. We vote on the section or Article 1. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? A two-thirds majority of all Members and Members are required. 72 in attendance, 67 in, no in. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] Section 1 is adopted. We vote on the section or Article 2. We're voting. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. 71 present, 68 for and none against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] Roger that. We are voting on a proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. Peace in the hall. Constitutional law as a whole. 74 present, 70 for and no one against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] The constitutional law has been adopted. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 182 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will promulgate a constitutional law amending Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on the eighth day following its adoption. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are at the 3rd item of the agenda to consider a proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia under Section 1. We're voting on him. May I have your attention in the hall, please? Present 71, 68 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] Roger that. Section 2. We're voting. We vote on the section or on Article 2. Present 67, 64 for and no one against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] Roger that. We are now voting on the draft constitutional law as a whole. We're voting. Present 72, 70 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the constitutional law has been fully adopted. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 182 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will declare a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia 8 days after its adoption. This concludes this point. On the 4th item of the agenda, we are considering a proposal for a constitutional law amending the 50th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We also have three votes here. Chapter 1 first. We're voting. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We vote on Section 1. Present 71, 69 for and no one against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] Roger that. We vote on the section or Article 2. Present 69, 66 for and no one against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Nobody.]] Roger that. We are now voting on the draft constitutional law as a whole. Present 73, 69 for and no one against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I find that the constitutional law has been fully adopted. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 182 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will promulgate a constitutional law amending Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on the eighth day following its adoption. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're at the 13th item of the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we will vote on the law on the recognition and evaluation of education on Thursday 17.6.2004 following the end of the last item. Thus, we can now proceed with the end of the 10th item of the agenda with a second reading of the proposal on amendments and additions to the arms law. An amendment has been tabled, tabled by the LDS Group or the LDS Club in Article 1. We're voting on the amendment. 66 present, 54 for and 2 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u199	Thank you very much. A respected choir! I propose that, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a third hearing at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u200	On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will therefore hold a third hearing at this meeting. Of course, it must be decided by the National Assembly. The decision will be taken if it does not oppose more than one third of the Members present and Members present. We are voting on this proposal. 73 present, 57 to, 11 to. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 11.]] The decision is adopted. For the 8th item of the agenda, we have a second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the general administrative procedure. The LDS Club has tabled article 144 of the Law of Amendment. If the amendment is not adopted, the next amendment, also tabled by the LDS Club in Article 146, will be irrelevant. Let's make a decision. We're voting. 74 present, 64 to, 2 to. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We can also decide on the following, namely the amendment of the same Group of Members to Article 146. We're voting. 71 in attendance, 64 in, 1 in. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I also propose in this law that, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a third hearing at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u202	Your proposal will be adopted if the majority votes for it, but not against more than a third of the Members and Members present. We're voting. We're voting on the proposal. 71 in attendance, 62 in and 6 in. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] The proposed decision is adopted. The Council of State will hold its third consideration of the proposal on Thursday 17.6. after the end of the last item. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I speak for the amendments to the articles that have been voted on. At the 9th item of the agenda, we have an interruption in the second reading of the proposal for a road safety law. This is the final decision of today. We have tabled amendments to the LDS Group as a whole or to a colleague of Leopold Kremjar with a group of Members. Article 14 first. We're making a decision. We're voting. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote on the amendments. Article 14(1) of Regulation (EC) 69 present, 50 for and 8 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 8th.]] Copy that. Article 20a. We're voting. Peace in the hall. 70 present, 56 for and 2 for. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] Roger that. Article 52. 59 present, 51 for and none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one's against it.]] Roger that. Article 91. 66 in attendance, 12 in and 52 in. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 52.]] He wasn't accepted. We are now voting on an amendment by a group of Members with a first-signed counterpart Kremjar to Article 118. We're voting. We're voting. We're voting. 70 present, 19 for, 42 versus. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] He wasn't accepted. As this amendment has not been adopted, the amendment to 252. a Article of the same proposal is irrelevant. I'm asking for peace in the hall! By article 131, I'll wait for things to calm down in the hall. [[...]] These are not conditions when we can make decisions. You raised your hand, Comrade Jelinčič. Why? To explain the voice? Please. Article 131 Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy to Article 131, which sets out more clearly the amendment that we have tabled. I would not have answered, but it seems that there is so much confusion in the Liberal Democracy that they do not know that they voted against their own amendments, so that they can consolidate themselves a little, I warn them that it is reasonable to vote in favour of this law, which they themselves have tabled or for this amendment, which they themselves tabled under Article 131. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u204	We decide on the amendment to Article 131. 70 in attendance, 67 in, no in. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] Roger that. Article 158 [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] Fall back. [[..]] Article 193 Can we decide on the amendment of the LDS House of Representatives to Article 193? Please, we're voting. 71 present, 57 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] Roger that. Article 196 Can we make a decision? We're voting. Peace in the hall. 71 in attendance, 56 in, 2 in. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] Roger that. We have another vote on the amendment to Article 201. We vote on the amendment to Article 201. 69 present, 53 for, 4 versus. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] Roger that. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u205	I propose that we hold a third hearing at this meeting on the Road Safety Act in accordance with the conditions met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u206	Good. It's the same procedure. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The harmonisation amendments will be prepared in the next reading, not now. [[...]] Easy. Let's go in one order. We will now first decide on your proposal to hold a hearing in the context of this meeting. If a third of Members and Members vote against this proposal, it will not be adopted. We are voting on this procedural pardon, Comrade Kremjar. [[...]] I'm calling off the vote. A fellow cremator. I think there's too much mess in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u207	President, it's too messy, and that's why things are falling away and we're not following them, we're not fast enough. I would like to predict if this is the right time, I ask, the third reading amendment on behalf of our Group of Members. Is this the right time or isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u208	Of course, you have that option. You don't have to predict it. You have that option.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u209	I got it. Well, I'll say.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u210	We will decide on a procedural proposal Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u211	Excuse me, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister if he can repeat the last thing he said. You have been turned against Mr President and we have not heard what you have said. Before we vote, I would like to know what we are voting on and what you have predicted because it has not been heard. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u212	In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of this meeting, the Minister proposed that we hold a third hearing. This proposal will be adopted if it does not oppose more than a third of the Members present and Members present. His co-worker added that they would prepare the harmonisation amendments. I warned him, however, that this point is irrelevant because it will apply after we are in third reading. The amendments may be submitted by qualified applicants to the articles adopted by the beginning of the third reading. Thus, a proposal or a warning from a fellow Kremjar is also accepted here. We therefore have a final procedural vote. We vote on this proposal to hold a third reading in the framework of this meeting. Present 69, 56 for and 6 for. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] The decision is adopted. If no one objected, that would be enough for tonight. Good. Thank you very much. We have passed three constitutional laws and some other decisions. Comrade Lavrinc, I still wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u213	Mr President, if I may, in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that the law, which goes on as a matter of urgency, be amended and supplemented by the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and on the development restructuring of the region tomorrow after the end of the 17th point, which is Wednesday 16 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u214	Okay, this is a procedural proposal that is possible under the Rules of Procedure and I would ask my colleagues to take their seats. This must be decided. Good. Which article did you quote colleague Lavrinz?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u215	Article 65, first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u216	Individual agenda items shall be dealt with in the field and in the order of order. During the meeting, the National Assembly may change the order twice if one third of the Members present do not object. You're proposing a decision like you made. If a third doesn't oppose him, he'll be accepted. Comrade Lavrinc, can you repeat your proposal again? We would therefore consider this proposal. When?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u217	Tomorrow after the end of the 17th point, i.e. in the framework of the votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-15-SDZ3-Redna-37.ana.u218	Is the proposal understandable? There's no need to justify it. The proposer can do it, but he can't. It's a day's work. We'll decide on it. Please, can we have this vote in peace? Please, this is a normal decision in accordance with Article 65. If a third opposes this proposal, this proposal will not be adopted. We're voting. Peace. Present 66, 52 for and 13 for. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 13.]] Good. The proposal was adopted. That's really what I'm doing here. For today, I will not ask if anyone else wants a word, because perhaps someone would ask for it. Good. Thank you very much. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll get back to work. Until then, I'm adjourning, and I wish you a pleasant evening.
