ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues, please gather in the hall and insert the cards so we can start work. Hello, Minister! I ask colleagues and colleagues who are still in the lobby or offices to come to the hall as soon as possible so that we can begin. I'm guessing we're on the clock and we'll get to work. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am pleased to note that, despite our leisure time, we are concluding, and I propose that we move on to work with a view to carrying out as soon as possible the most demanding and responsible work that we will agree on in the agenda, and that we allow those who have returned from vacations or who are going on leave to be able to leave as soon as possible. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Samo Bevk, Ljubo Germič, Leopold Grošelj, Ivan Kebrič, Master Janez Kramberger, Lidija Majnik, Valentin Pohorec, Davorin Terčon, Janko Weber and Tsveta Zalokar Orazem from 2 p.m. I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives of the Republic Election Commission, candidates who become Members instead of Members who have been given a mandate, representatives of the Judicial Council and candidates for the Anti-Corruption Commission. I welcome all the invitees here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Please calm down! The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I didn't get a motion to withdraw. But I do have proposals for expansion. We are moving on to the consideration of proposals for an extension of the agenda. Firstly, the President of the Election Commission proposes that the agenda be extended by the consideration of elected matters. Under this item, the Assembly will consider: under a proposal for a decision supplementing the decision on the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the three members of the Commission on the Prevention of Corruption; and under b - a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. Does the proposer want to explain his proposal? He doesn't want to. They want the word of representatives of the parliamentary groups? They don't want to. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. 58 Members and Members present voted for 51 against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat this item as item 2 of the agenda. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the agenda should be extended by considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on earthquake recovery and promotion of development in Posoča, an urgent procedure. Does the government want a word? Minister Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Dear President! I propose that, because of some specificities, which constitute a third natural disaster in less than 30 years in Posoča, and because of the fact that some additional measures, both developmental and such, constitute a form of state aid to the economy, could help the economy as quickly as possible and as successfully as possible with the earthquake of the affected area, I suggest that you deal with this proposal under urgent procedure today. I am sure that such an initiative, because we all feel the need for some solidarity and assistance to this affected area, will not encounter any opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u3	Thank you for the explanation of the proposal, Minister, mag. The digger. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There's 60 of us here for 57 against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The full vote on the agenda. I therefore propose to the assembly that we vote in favour of today's meeting on a specific agenda, as you have received by reference, together with the amendments adopted. We're voting. 57 Members and Members present, for 55, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Allow me to inform you of the progress of today's part of the assembly. Following the end of agenda item 1, the meeting of the assembly will be suspended in order to meet at 10.30 a.m. with the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, which will consider a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the earthquake recovery of facilities and the promotion of the development of the Soča. The meeting will be in the big salon. We will continue the meeting at 1300 hours. I know that some would like it sooner, we can agree that if the Committee succeeds in closing the hearing earlier, it is necessary to draw up a report of the Committee so that we can meet earlier if possible. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S FOR THE ASSISTANCE OF THE MANDATES OF THE MISSIONS, WHO IN ACCORDANCE WITH 17. Members of the Law on Love in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia become Members for the remainder of the period of office instead of Members who have been handed over the mandate. At its 48th extraordinary meeting on 6.7.2004, the National Assembly took note of the conclusion that, on the date of the confirmation of the mandate of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, Mr Brejc, Mr Jelk Kacin, Mr Borut Pahor and Mr Alojs Peterlet, the Commissioner of the National Assembly, and on that basis requested the Republic Election Commission to refer to the Assembly on the basis of Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, to which the candidates from the list of candidates would be elected. The Republican Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly the findings that the mandate of the current Ambassador Jelko Kacin has passed on to Mrs Darjo Lovtizar Bebler. The term of office of Mr Borut Pahor has passed on to Mrs Bredo Pecan. The term of office of the current Ambassador, Dr Michael Brejc, shall be changed to Mr Siniso Germovska. And the term of office of Mr Matjaz Falkner, former Ambassador Aloys Peterlet. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing and submitted proposals for conclusions. Does the chairman of the commission want a word? He doesn't want to. Do I give the text to Members and Members or to the Group of Members first? Nobody. Would any of the Messengers and Members want to discuss it? He doesn't want to. I put to the vote the motion for a decision, which reads for the first time: "Confirm the parliamentary mandate of Mrs Darja Lovtizar Bebler, born 10.10.1950, resident of Borovska 26, Kranjska Gora." We're voting. Presence of 60 Members and Members, 56 to 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I put to the vote the motion for a decision, which reads: "Confirm the mandate of Mrs Breda Pečan, born 2.10.1946, residing at the Old Wall 8, Izola." We're voting. 60 Members and Members present, 56 to 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Thirdly, I put to the vote the motion for a decision, which reads: "Confirm the mandate of the Member of Mr Siniša Germovšk, born 8.4.1955, resident of Brdo 20, Bovec." We're voting. The 59 Members and Members present, for 55, for 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Fourthly, I put to the vote a proposal for a decision, which reads: "Confirm the mandate of the Member of Mr Matjaž Falkner, born 1.12.1947, resident of Nad Krko 19, Otočec." We're voting. There's 60 of us in attendance, 57 against 2. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I invite MPs and MPs to come to the hall. [[Let's hear it.]] Dear fellow Members, my fellow Member, I sincerely congratulate you on joining us, I wish you a successful work between us and good cooperation, above all, a good feeling. I hereby conclude this agenda item and hereby suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u4	Your Honor! On behalf of the President of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we will begin the meeting at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes. The Committee will still be sitting, and since the meeting is not yet concluded, this is the reason why the meeting will be held at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u5	Colleagues and colleagues, given that the Infrastructure Committee is still in session and is considering articles and amendments, we will continue the meeting at half past four, at 3:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u6	Colleagues and colleagues, the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee is still under way. We expect the meeting to be over in about 20 minutes and we will resume at 4:30. Even if the report is not yet completed, we will begin by addressing the point, because it will take some time for the government's introductory explanations, debates and, at that time, a report on the benches, so that we can also decide and, hopefully, also adopt the law, which is ultimately our goal and also our duty. So I ask you to understand and then we gather at 4:30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u7	I invite fellow Members and fellow Members to come to the Chamber to continue the meeting. I think there's enough of us, please insert the cards, some of us don't seem to have any cards. We're moving to 2. It's a day's work, and it's a mental-voluntary matter. First, it examines the proposal for a decision supplementing the decision on the appointment of a President, a Vice-President and three members of the anti-corruption commission. In its consideration of the meeting, the Commission presented a proposal for a decision supplementing the decision on the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Anti-Corruption Commission, namely, the Council of State to propose that Dr Bojan Dobovsk be appointed as a member of the Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? He doesn't want to. Would you like a representative of the Council of Justice? He doesn't want to. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision supplementing the decision on the appointment of a President, a Vice-President and three members of the anti-corruption commission. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 40 Members and Members voted against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Free 2.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I'm asking the candidate to come into the hall, because there's a sign of a lockdown. On the basis of Article 6, paragraph 8, of the Anti-Corruption Act, a member of the Commission shall swear upon appointment before the national assembly. That is why I ask Dr. Bojana Dobovska, a member of the anti-corruption commission, to take an oath before the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u8	Thank you. I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my duties, to act conscientiously and honestly and always to exercise the interests of the common good before private interests. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u9	I sincerely congratulate Dr. Dobovšku, and I wish many success in the performance of the responsible function. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending the decisions establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. Since Jelko Kacin’s mandate was terminated, the LDS Club submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. I ask, does the representative of the motioners want to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. Would representatives or representatives of the parliamentary groups like to speak? They don't want to. Would any of the Members and Members like to discuss it? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There were 50 Members and Members present, 45 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I sincerely congratulate my colleague Jakić, and I want a successful job and good cooperation. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE SUSTAINABLE RENEWALMENT OF THE PROJECTS AND PROMOTION OF DEVELOPMENT IN THE TERRITORY, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the Prime Minister and ask him if he wants a word. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u10	Dear Members. On 12 July, the area of Soča was again hit by a severe earthquake and, of course, caused significant damage; material damage. On the basis of previous data, around 170 objects were damaged, 66 so that they are currently unfit to stay. The government immediately responded to the situation and sent teams to Posoča, which, together with the teams in Posoča, began to identify the damage and, of course, also measures to remedy the damage. The main objective of all measures is to remedy the damage quickly and effectively, and it has always been and will be a fundamental priority to take into account the specific difficulties and problems of the people in the area. As you know, the first very specific activities have already taken place, on the basis of the arrangements we have made, the first rehabilitations, the partial rehabilitations, the most urgent ones, already done and will continue. However, all other activities are taking place, of course, which must ensure that the damage is fully established and that all necessary measures are taken on this basis and that, of course, they continue with all the intensity. However, in order to address the situation and the problems that have arisen as effectively as possible, the government has decided to propose amendments and additions to the law on earthquake recovery and promotion of development in Posoča. You have these amendments on the table and have already addressed them within the Committees. With these amendments to the law, we want to achieve more goals. The first objectives are that we particularly want easier procedures for the restoration of facilities. We want these procedures to proceed immediately, as soon as possible, as well as new construction. We want to help the victims quickly, but of course we also want to relieve the population and all those affected by the earthquake. On the one hand, we want to relieve the financial burden of all those already under the 1998 earthquake recovery. In this context, we propose some changes relating to the way credits are accounted for, which have been leased under the housing fund. We want to relieve all those who have been particularly affected or damaged by the 1998 earthquake and have been rehabilitated, of course, in such a way that the entire damage caused them is financed from the budget. We wish, of course, to further encourage, with tax incentives, all those who want to donate who want to be solidarity. I must say that there is quite a lot of interest between domestic companies, legal persons and natural persons. All those who choose to do so will receive special tax exemptions from corporate income tax and income tax. In doing so, let me say that there is a relatively high interest abroad, and we hope that these donations will be made relatively quickly. There are a few country governments in both Austria and Italy that want to help the Soča who want to help with the earthquake recovery, and we have therefore decided to arrange or facilitate the way of donations to those who need them - to the specific people of Soča. However, we want, and this is of course very important, also for the Court to provide development perspectives, and therefore we have decided to upgrade the existing state aid already envisaged to provide additional resources for development, as provided for in this proposal of the law, and, of course, we want to extend this aid according to the existing law, because the fact that this aid is necessary because we want to provide a stable economic environment and a perspective for the people of the Community when we are going to rehabilitate the new buildings. I am confident that you will support the law and thus allow for an accelerated resolution of the consequences of the earthquake and also the development perspective of the Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister, mag. Robbery. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Janez the Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Just a few more details after these opening remarks by the Prime Minister. In this year's earthquake, as has already been said, some less than 1,200 buildings have been inspected and around 170, data are still changing slightly, and more serious injuries have been detected. Of these, there are some such objects that have minor injuries, and there are 66 that are unfit to stay and have at least one permanent residence at their address. This is said to be at least 66 housing facilities that are unfit for residence. Of these, Grade 3 injuries are on a scale of 1 to 4 24 objects, of those that have already been repaired, but are expected to be damaged, but also have 6 injuries which are grade 4 and which should probably not occur, so for these 6 there is a specific analysis of what was actually wrong there if anything was wrong. I would like to point out, however, that this is 6 of the 1447 buildings that have been reconstructed structurally in the post-1998 earthquake recovery, which represents less than half a percent. The state has decided or the government has decided and proposes that you accept that because of this specific, that is, a constantly recurring event in some buildings, some of these houses have been repaired since 1976, and then after 1998, they are now again damaged to help these people in a special way, in a 100% state aid way, meaning that the costs of remedying the consequences are fully taken over by the state. Otherwise, the state reacts in accordance with the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which is a system law and, of course, we do well to offer appropriate assistance to the earthquake victims at this time. In this case, however, it was for, after being measured, a weaker earthquake than in 1998, when 4,057 high-rise buildings were damaged, this time only 170 so far, and this earthquake was significantly stronger in two microlocations, the village of Cezsoča and part of the Bovec. There, experts say, the accelerations were much higher than in 1998. They were probably even bigger than they were in Breginj in 1976. I just want to illustrate in this microlocation how this earthquake was significantly more powerful than it was in 1998. I especially want to illustrate this because many say, "There was a weaker earthquake, how there could have been any damage at all!" It is not true, in these two microlocations there was a much stronger earthquake.The state, in addition to what I have already mentioned, - that is, the taking over of all the costs of eliminating the consequences of the earthquake for those who had damaged facilities and were beneficiaries in 1998 - is proposing some concrete forms of assistance. One of them is development assistance and was created by the Regional Development Service under the leadership of Minister Kovaceva. We are in the framework of the 1998 earthquake recovery law, which was the law that regulated both the aftermath of the earthquake and the development aid and was the first such law - only later did we get the law on promoting coherent regional development - in short, after this law we already had specific provisions on development aid. So far, this development aid has been slightly less than a billion dollars from 1998 to today. First of all, this development assistance was coordinated by the Special Council for the Development of the Court, which in 2001 intervened and transferred its powers to the development centre and the structural policy council in accordance with the System Act on the Promotion of coherent regional development. In the new proposal, the government proposes not only to continue this development aid, but even to increase it, so that in 2005 it will not be 400 million tolars as originally envisaged, but 550, not 400 in 2006, as originally envisaged, but 500 and continue to continue there until 2013, with falling annual amounts so that total development aid will total between 2005 and 2013 2 billion 450 million tolars. Furthermore, as already mentioned by the Prime Minister, we propose that the way in which the revaluations are attributed to rented housing loans be abolished from 1.1.2004 onwards, and that these loans, which have so far been non-interest-free, after TOM+0, be converted into interest-free according to EURO+0, as well as the way in which they are accounted should then be written off from the principal, so that the principal will be reduced, meaning that people will also see how the real value of their debt decreases. So far, they have not had this feeling because the method of imputing revaloration has been different. Otherwise, this measure amounts to 700 million tolls on renters of housing loans and thus 700 million tolls less on the return of these loans to the housing fund. That's another financial consequence. Article 1, which means State aid in its entirety to those who suffered injury in 1998 and appropriate assistance under the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters to those who suffered only this year and not in 1998 and who may also obtain a 100 % State aid in the event of income weakness. However, in the event that they are not at risk of income, and in accordance with legal limits, this cost is expected to cost the country, according to very harsh estimates, since there is not yet a definitive inventory of damage, about three billion and a half billion. An important article, that is 8, which also introduces a new form of development aid, is an article that says that State aid funds can be used for business damage to legal persons and independent entrepreneurs, individuals and farmers who have lost the opportunity or who have been limited the possibility of carrying out economic activities in their business premises due to an earthquake. We provide for specific provisions on the promotion of grants where paid grants in 2004 may be written off to a certain amount of the tax base on corporate income tax and where these same donations of individuals may be deducted from the tax base in the calculation of income. Furthermore, we foresee a substantial reduction in the procedures for the issuance of construction permits for reconstruction and in the construction of those emergency replacement facilities that have collapsed, where we take over the logic from the construction law, where it is possible to start such a construction, but only if the project is controlled by a state-owned technical office, even without a building permit, it is ultimately necessary for them to obtain a usable permit before the application begins, which of course means the submission of all projects and all compliance with the regulations, but time is given. We provide for special reductions in procedures in the possible necessary parceling in the case of replacement facilities. These are articles around 40h and i. We assume that such replacement facilities cannot be accounted for by contributions to join the economic public infrastructure, and we assume that the payment of the tax revenue from the activity and the corporate income tax for those independent entrepreneurs and those companies that cannot operate normally is terminated because the earthquake destroyed or damaged their business premises. These are all the special incentives that, as the Prime Minister has mentioned, we want to help the affected quickly and effectively. I propose that you support the bill and that we do something good together and that we do it quickly for our House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u13	Thank you, Mag. The digger, the Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy. The word has magic. Zdenka Kovac, Minister for Structural Policy and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u14	Thank you. A nice greeting to the well-respected congregation. I would like to begin by examining the law, the preparation of which is based on the experience that we have experienced with the implementation of the disaster recovery in Posoča so far, to show by some physical indicators what has actually happened so far and why we are now continuing in fact with similar forms of aid, which, of course, are also upgraded to some extent. First, it must be said that this earthquake recovery or development aid was carried out in two parts of the earthquake recovery. First of all, in 1998, as Minister Kopač has already said, under the general earthquake recovery law, where, of course, under the special programme, we have earmarked development funds for so-called development investments in order to encourage a positive outlook at that time. Because, I have to say, even when I was preparing this programme myself as a secretary of state at work, the situation in Posoča was really black-eyed. At that time, by hiring specific loans under the European Fund, then the Social Fund, today this development fund, has hired additional funds that have enabled us to encourage the development of 199 investment projects in the Society, mainly in the area of small economy and also diversification of agricultural activities, with slightly less than billion repayments and 10% of grants. Following the adoption of the Law in 2001, two billion non-refundable incentives, launched by the Regional Development Agency and allocated for three actions under the annual implementation programme, were allocated to the Joint Court by 2006. These were measures to establish development infrastructure, to promote entrepreneurial investment and to train and develop human resources. A total of 876 million funds were allocated during these three years, including this year. 178 new jobs have been created or are still in the process of being created, as investments from this year are just beginning and 18 projects have been supported in the framework of the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Designs have been created, or investments in business zones have already been made in tourism infrastructure, an enterprise incubator and so on. Two activities have also been carried out in the field of human resources, namely until this year, the call for proposals will only run, 58 scholarships have been awarded and 21 new jobs of young professionals in companies in Posoča and 24 training projects in companies in Posoča. As we know, the programme coordinates and prepares the individual development centre and, of course, calls are being made by the State Agency for Regional Development. By increasing the scope of funds for such incentives, we will, of course, only be able to continue with the already well-run practice that businesses and entrepreneurs in the Soča have become accustomed to. In fact, every year we also have a number of new initiatives and new projects, which, of course, is particularly important nowadays. So much for what's been done so far. I think that the results - including the Experienced – recognize this - are encouraging and that it makes sense to continue in this form, so we also propose such a form of development aid law in Posoča. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Secretary. In view of the fact that the content of the law is such that it concerns several departments, the Minister for Economy, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. In fact, I also visited the affected area myself. I've been to three production companies, and you know, you know, Lesna Bovec, Iskra Bovec and Chibo. I also looked at the Hotel Alps, which you know is very affected, and the Kanin Hotel, which is kind of less than the Alps Hotel. I have also looked at some of these smaller business entities in Cezsoča and Trenta, so that the government has decided to adapt Article 11 of this Act accordingly in such a way as to allow all business entities to claim compensation for damage caused by installations and buildings, and, of course, to provide additional compensation for any damage caused by the cessation of the activity resulting from this earthquake. By 6 August, the government also imposed on the Sushi Development Centre to assess all the damage caused to business entities in this area. By 2 August, the Protection and Rescue Authority will also provide an assessment of the damage caused by the facilities themselves, so that financial instruments can also be properly used on this basis, so that this damage can be limited or remedied and business operators can be allowed to operate in this area. It has already been pointed out that much has been done in the past for the development of this area. As I said, companies in the Bovec area are affected differently, the basic question at this point is, of course, whether they can proceed with the activity or not. I must say that some companies are also successful in participating in the Ministry of the Economy's tenders. As a result, I am pleased to note that TKK from this area, Serbia, has managed to obtain funds for investing in new technologies and knowledge for this year at 83.9 million tolars and for the next year 89 million tolars. I am so firmly convinced that with all the measures we are already implementing, and also with the appropriate adaptation of the law proposed by these adjustments, which I hope you will succeed in limiting the damage and in ensuring the further development of this area. The main starting point is that we want to ensure the prospects for young people in particular, so that we do not leave this area, so we have adapted Article 11 accordingly, so that we do not lose activity in the area of Bovec and the wider environment or ensure that jobs are still maintained and that jobs in the area continue to be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the President or the rapporteur if he wishes to speak. Here you go, mate Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At today's five and more hourly session, the Infrastructure Committee considered the proposal for a law and, of course, in its initial discussion, found that the law was a welcome basis for solving the problem in the Suča earthquake. Of course, the law was given an opinion, namely an oral opinion, including a legislative and legal service which pointed out some shortcomings, and several amendments were tabled by the parliamentary groups: the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and Nova Slovenija. The amendment of colleague Jožef Školč was also tabled, as was the amendment of our fellow Member, Ivo Bozič. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee was forced to suspend the meeting for a good hour, so that the Section, the Legislative and Legal Service, the drafter of the law, and I myself participated in the work, could prepare amendments which the Committee then adopted. The Committee did not adopt the amendments proposed by the Social Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party and adopted the amendment by Jožef Školč to Article 3. In the debate on this law, there was a fundamental issue, which in many ways put pressure on even the discussion of the law as to how the 1998 earthquake was handled. In order to avoid any blockade on the adoption of this law, the Committee, of course aware that it is also necessary for the Slovenian public to determine how the 1998 earthquake was carried out, adopted an additional decision imposing on the Government to prepare a thorough analysis of the remedial measures carried out and to inform the National Assembly thereof, that is to say, to submit this report by 30 September of this year. We estimate that such a proposal for a decision is good to avoid any further speculation on irregularities in remedial works. Of course, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u19	Comrade Janc, thank you for presenting the committee report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of Ambassador New Slovenia, Master Janez Drobnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly! Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, it is necessary to establish the adoption of this law so that, in fact, an earthquake recovery can be carried out on the basis of existing legislation and that these changes to the law are not necessary on the door to the nose. So if there was a real wish, for these tasks, the laws we have at our disposal could be applied for the first phase of renewal. We have already said about the law on the management of the consequences of natural disasters and, last but not least, we have the law on the earthquake recovery of Soča, which we are also amending. Thus, the adoption of a law or amendment of a law refers to several areas, so it is interdisciplinary and is available for serious consideration, of course, too little time. We are so at risk that in a law of non-compliance, for which there could be damage, unequal treatment, or headaches, or even who there will be. It is therefore an intervention in the tax area, financial area, infrastructure, environment, work, employment and much more. With regard to the statements of the Minister of Environment and Space, which says that in some cases, the earthquake this year was even worse, that some of the suns were in some environments - suspected - stronger - and that it has the opinions of experts. Then we need to ask ourselves what is the actual opinion of the experts; whether there is something wrong with the intensity of the earthquake rate or whether experts were wrong or were wrong about the magnitude of the earthquake recovery, and whether this has also resulted in unloving re-inflicted injuries that would not have occurred after the provision of these experts. Well, someone must have been wrong here. The government does not come with a clear answer and continues to leave an even greater ambiguity. State services have not been well demonstrated in the previous period or in these programmes. People have experienced various calvaries and also have a certain degree of mistrust toward those who have organized and implemented earthquake relief. Therefore, the Committee raised a serious question as to how, with our decisions, to ensure trust, which has been abused both by citizens and by those who have been harmed. In fact, the citizens also paid for the "watercraft" and they wonder whether this aid was properly used. It was enough in this valley of Soča victims, injured ones, to play with them again in this way. An immediate question is how to trust someone who has led this earthquake recovery and has proved to be inappropriate. In order to ensure that the same services continue to be used in the same component or to perform this reconstruction after the earthquake that took place this year on 12 July. There is also a very specific dilemma and the question of how will they exercise rights or benefits or help our citizens who have suffered harm - under what law? Whether this law on dealing with the consequences of natural disasters, which is worse for the injured, or whether this new law, or the amendment of the law we are considering, will be available, i.e. on the earthquake recovery of buildings and the promotion of development in Posoča. On this question, government representatives, the Minister did not give an appropriate answer. It's about the individual solutions they've offered us. Reliefs or exemptions in relation to the Income Law - Purposes: Humanitarian and Charity Activities. In the New Slovenia Group we propose not to set a limit for these purposes, namely the restoration of the Posača, because whoever wants to donate their resources for these purposes has no sense of burden or limitation. Such assistance is necessary and will be welcome, especially if it comes from individual citizens. The earthquake’s recovery has shown that some operators have misused confidence that they did not comply with technical standards and that they are suspected of corruption or inadequate use of funds. A huge amount of money was used. It goes to billions of dollars, and for these amounts, citizens could get significantly more help. This is why we proposed an amendment so that in case of selection of operators, the owner would decide. In the event that this is a matter of state or public institutions, we know that the Public Procurement Act applies and that is why designers as well as contractors are selected; whereas the scope of the operators, the list available for individual facilities in accordance with the requirements, technical standards and damage, while other investors could choose for themselves not to be caught in the network of certain lobbying and similar. So it also fucked our contribution to improving the law. We also believe that additional resources should be provided in the sense of compensatory schemes intended for individual municipalities to these three municipalities, and these additional funds would be allocated to infrastructure which constitutes the basis for the development of this place. In terms of donations, there was also no clear answer to whom the grants were intended: or to the victims of this earthquake, who had already been injured, or to all. And, of course, the proposal that these funds be managed on a specific item and that they are all earmarked for these purposes, i.e. for injured persons with lower socio-economic status, particularly at a time when their children enter school during this period. Therefore, it should be noted that Slovenia and this country have legislation on the basis of which an earthquake recovery would be carried out. We have a law on employment and unemployment insurance, which lists all active employment policy measures that the government could set up and start implementing. In this context, it also has the possibility to use budget lines, sub-items, spilling sub-items and would use them for various purposes - to create new jobs, to preserve jobs, to preserve jobs, to fund work, to social enterprises and other things, which would give a new impetus to development in this place. The Minister of Economy also has certain instruments and tools for this to provide this assistance. Last but not least, I have found many times that the development of tourist destinations could be made up to a greater extent for those destinations which are not in the 'top situation', as far as the development level is concerned. Money and resources could be invested, aid, professional assistance to tourist destinations with pre-dispositions are not developed. This could be the upper court now affected by the earthquake. The law on coherent regional development, what we have talked a lot about, how we will reduce the differences - there are specific things mentioned that we have considered in this National Assembly and could use them as instruments as a tool to provide assistance. However, some of the instruments proposed by the government could also be introduced two or three months after serious and good consideration. And that's why some people, including us, will understand this paper as a pre-election program. Oh. K., the government has decided to make a pre-election move, but what really matters is that we have to accept this moment. Sometimes it is not, perhaps one of you or the public or the citizens wants to compare Schreder's approach to the minister of rob in such an accident. In this case, therefore, the law is proposed, in that case, on the basis of the instruments which the State has prepared for natural disasters, also implements and provides assistance as soon as possible in any sense: material intangible, professional, advisory or similar. So, that's what we should be doing. The Council for the Development of the Court - all these state institutions involved in the world and public institutions and local institutions have not done the work they should have done. And if the law goes in the same degree, if it has the same framework - then where do we guarantee that the implementation will be better? Where, then, are we guaranteed if the same persons are to appear in these cycles? So where are the guarantees? These are, of course, questions concerning a certain degree of mistrust. In Novi Slovenija, we will support the law that this level of mistrust is declining and that assistance will be implemented where necessary as soon as possible. However, we expected greater obedience to our amendments in the context of the debate. Those amendments that would improve the text. They would probably be more prepared, but it would certainly take more time to prepare such amendments, an interdisciplinary law that affects at least ten other areas, as I have already mentioned, and would require more time for such amendments as the legislative and legal service. However, in New Slovenia or I, however, we are thinking that this law could accelerate aid and alleviate the hardships experienced by citizens in the western part of Slovenia, this is an earthquake area, and in the last 30 years there have been three earthquakes, and that is certainly why they need to be listened to. In the future, however, we will have to think about other development instruments that are known in the world that all these natural disasters need to develop an insurance system, an insurance system that really gives full guarantees to people to implement aid. However, it remains at the beginning of this aid, at the beginning of the intervention, the State and its authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u21	Thank you, Comrade Petty Officer. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by a mag colleague. Blaze Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u22	Dear Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government! Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia are fully aware of the situation in which the inhabitants of Soča were in the wake of the earthquake on 12 July this year. This situation is particularly difficult because many people have been exposed to this natural disaster for the second or even third time, and I am talking about the 1976 earthquake, 1998 and the 12 July 2004 earthquake. This successive operation of the natural forces has undoubtedly had severe psychological and social consequences, provides the basis for a situation that is in some cases close to apathy, and this situation must, of course, be responded to. All the problems caused by natural disasters cannot be solved quickly and completely. But it is possible, and the task of this government is to mitigate, to the extent possible, the consequences of a natural disaster. This, of course, also requires an analysis of the recovery so far. Member of Parliament and Member of the Liberal Democracy do not agree with some flat-rate assessments of the total inappropriateness of the measures taken so far, but we believe that much good has been done so far. However, in order to identify certain shortcomings, we have also supported the decision of the Infrastructure Committee that positive and negative experience so far should be thoroughly examined by the end of September and that these conclusions should also be taken into account in the follow-up to the measures. Of course, we cannot wait for the analysis, so we believe that the Government's proposal by finalising the legal solutions so far is basically good. This is a situation that is supposed to be faced with an objective situation that is indicative of about three and a half billion damage caused only by this earthquake. It is, of course, necessary to bear in mind that up to now about twelve billion dollars have been invested in the restoration of the Soča and that the rough estimates of the measures we are taking for the future show an additional seven billion. The proposed completions of the Act on earthquake recovery and promotion of development in Soča are good. We believe that they will be able to operate in sync with the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which was adopted as a system law last year. Among the solutions that we think are good, it is also true that, in an attempt to solve problems, certain signals are also present, such as those which, with partial reimbursement of insurance premiums in those cases where these insurances have been paid, so, with partial reimbursement of the costs for these premiums, there is a government or this law signal that it is necessary to encourage the resolution of such cases in the future to a substantially greater extent by relying on such instruments as insurance, including in the event of earthquakes. With the short-term measures and the long-term measures envisaged in the proposed bill, I think it is important to draw further attention to those long-term solutions that are also present in the legislation. As an example, I would like to highlight the strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia. We believe in the LDS Club that one of the important substantive bases for better dealing with the consequences and the situation in the Soča solution proposed [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in the strategy, namely better linking Northern Primorska with Central Slovenia through demographic and economically more vital neighbouring areas. [[...]] We believe that this is the solution that can also contribute in the long term to the improvement of the situation in Posoč. We will support the proposal of the LDS in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u23	Thank you, Comrade Kavčič. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by counterpart Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In our opinion, too, the law drafted by the government is a solid foundation. We are also pleased by the government's rapid reaction. In 1998, it took more than two months for the National Assembly to adopt legislation to remedy the consequences of the earthquake. Now the reaction is much faster, and of course it is commendable. In this proposal, the government has also taken into account several proposals made in our draft law, as well as several proposals from the Bovec municipality, which participated in the preparation of both proposals. Here, on our part, especially to commend Dr. Marble's Minister of Finance, who is not here today, but has engaged in these solutions and so far everything is fine and right. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that, given that we are supplementing the law bearing the title. The Act on Earthquake Restoration and Promotion of Development in Posoča, to pay particular attention to this other component. It is important to know that we are talking about a specific area in Slovenia where the number of people is drastically decreasing in recent decades, where the population is ageing, where few new investments are made and new activities are taking place, that the area is directly at the border, that the transport area is significantly better accessible from the neighbouring country and that, of course, this area is being shaken and that it will remain so in the future. It is therefore essential that these measures, which are being adopted, also take into account the second part of the title of the law, which we are supplementing, which is said to encourage development in the Soča. And here we encountered difficulties when we wanted to supplement the marriage on the parental committee in this sense. We will do nothing to help people rebuild houses if we do not at the same time restore the will to live in these places, and this is well established. In our view, in terms of promoting development now, although overnight - I agree - some measures should be very difficult to prepare in such a way that they are considered to hold and not to "shoot" from certain systems, but some are possible, and one of them is that, in the long or at least some medium term, the dynamics of economic activity in the Court are encouraged. We have proposed a solution here, a concrete solution, namely exemption from corporate income taxes for five years. It might also be good for more, for now we have proposed this exemption for five years, which would, of course, be a very concrete measure that would not only help those who are currently engaged in economic activity in this area and may be considering whether they would even continue to do so in view of these threats, but would also attract new ones. And this is essential for the trends that I have previously counted to turn in a positive direction. The next major flaw in the law, and here I don't know why the government has a blind spot, is the fact that the government only separates two situations: permanent residence and weekenders. It does not take into account many intermediate situations that are very common here. The fact is, there are a lot of buildings in which no one is constantly reported, because parents have died, children are scattered around Slovenia or even around the world, maintaining these houses or maintaining the entire surrounding landscape, but they do not have a permanent residence there. And if they don't get any help, just as they weren't getting at the last earthquake, most of them probably won't decide on the renovation, they'll decide on the sale. And for relatively small amounts, of course, it's not hard for Italians to sell, and that's a lot. It is said that the intermediate situations to be taken into account are objects where there is no one with a permanent residence, but they are objects of locals who, because there is no bread, work for bread elsewhere and elsewhere also live and are here only occasionally. But it is not said that we would not return, of course, if the development perspective were better. In this regard, we have proposed an amendment that does not give such a sharp division. Other solutions might be possible, but the government has put itself in a position that has been somewhat so, arrogantly said when it comes to only two situations that would be dealt with by weekenders. The one who knows the Rule knows that the situation here is not black and white. In the framework of these measures that will be taken today and within the framework of the measures available to the Government itself as executive authorities, there is still much more to be done, including below. Now, when it comes to the population itself, we would warmly recommend a 100% discount on income for as long as the area is not revitalized. The adoption of other measures to promote the establishment of new small and medium-sized enterprises, other than what I mentioned earlier and which we have also proposed in the amendment itself, is proposed to the Government to consider, given that it is clearly an earthquake-stricken area and that we do not know whether there will be another earthquake in six months, in ten years, and that it is not a charge on what many who speculated on the latest recovery, over that there will not be enough time from the new earthquake to show whether or not mistakes will be made. In short, we suggest to the government that it consider subsidies for earthquake insurance. I think that this is in the common interest, that this would be a means, a small resource that would be very productively invested in the long term, and that something could be done on this immediately. We also propose to the government or to those who will again have in the hands of scissors and canvas concrete measures to restore themselves, to have an absolute advantage in these reconstruction works by local companies and, of course, to ensure only effective external control. And we would like to point out this - otherwise, colleague Školč managed to bring through the committee an amendment and a holiday Christmas - that one of the key issues is the revitalisation of this area of transport. As long as this area is poorly accessible from the interior of Slovenia, and very easy from the Italian side, then there will be more to this issue than just the things we are talking about. I think that all these measures and all these funds, which would be invested - not only in the earthquake recovery, but in particular in promoting development in Suča - also represent a good investment. The valley of the Soča River is considered by many foreign experts to be the most beautiful Alpine valley in Europe. The possibilities of ecological tourism are enormous here, Slovenia's entry into the European Union opens up new opportunities, not only the threats I have been talking about indirectly, but also a number of new opportunities and revitalisation of this area is an investment that does not represent a cost, as it now appears, what the state will give to this area, but it is an investment. Of course, the matter must be taken up in the long run and dealt with in this way. This would cause many of the problems we are dealing with here, even if there were no earthquake. These trends, as I mentioned earlier, were such, not only because of the earthquake, but also because of other circumstances, and the issue of development and demographic threats in this area would exist in any case. So much for what we believe should be done in the future. Now that we are discussing an earthquake recovery after the earthquake on 12 July this year, it is not possible to avoid the post-1998 earthquake recovery assessment, following the 1998 earthquake, which was passed by the law that we are supplementing today. As our colleague Jože Tanko pointed out on the committee, it would be very normal for the government to report in a concise manner on the implementation of the law that we are now supplementing. The Government must be able to report on the implementation of any law within one day. The executive branch is so organised that there is a sector for each law, a department in the state administration that is concerned, and it is only necessary to pull this together. While we have heard some of this information in the opening statements by government representatives, this was not a comprehensive report on the basis of which we could actually weigh, to what extent the law has been fulfilled and to what extent this earthquake recovery has been successful, but not, in particular, how far this second part of the law, which speaks of the promotion of development in Posoč, has been implemented. The government is proposing in this amendment to the law, which we are considering today, the abolition of the Council for the Development of the Soča. Yesterday we asked or asked the government to send us the records of this body, which was the body set up to coordinate the earthquake recovery and also measures to promote development. This body met in the first period following the entry into force of the law, which has been practically absent in recent years, according to our data. When we asked the congregation of Bovec yesterday, when was the last meeting of this world, since each congregation has two representatives in this world, they have not been able to say a single session in this term since the last local elections. Yesterday, the former Minister of Environment and Space said that another body - a development agency under another law - was supposed to take over the tasks of this world, but this is more an excuse, because this part of the law on the earthquake recovery and development of the Court, which we are changing today, is still in force. This world exists, but is a legitimate and legitimate body, and the President of this Council, acting as Minister of Environment and Space, should also present a report in the capacity of the President of this body. It is not possible to agree to this, because someone has forgotten this function because they have not coordinated the earthquake recovery and also not to promote development, now to resolve the matter by proposing in this new law, so by the way, that this world is abolished. If we abolish it today, then we request a report on how this coordination function has been carried out to date, until the moment that this body exists in accordance with the law. We are convinced that many of the shortcomings that have been discussed in the last few days would be much smaller or even less if this coordination function actually existed. In this world, representatives of half the government departments, representatives of all municipalities and many of these comments, which were primarily made by representatives of local communities to undertake an earthquake reconstruction under the 1998 law, could be placed at meetings of this Council and things would be clarified if someone were to play this coordinating role and if people had the opportunity to comment there. If the government says someone else did this, another agency, then please help us with this agency's report. The fact that someone else was working was supposed to be working, and he wasn't working, it's not an answer. So it would be perfectly normal for Parliament today to insist on a government when proposing a change of law also to report on how the law has been implemented so far. However, we will not insist on this, given that it is probably a priority at this time, how to resolve as quickly and as effectively as possible what is being resolved in this short time after this last earthquake. As far as reporting is concerned, it may be that it is very indicative of how the Minister responsible for the recovery of the earthquake on the home working body has defended the proposal to keep the government from reporting until the end of this mandate. We have suggested that, however, if this is not possible to date, the report will be written in 30 days. Every normal government should be able to do that. But then the members of the government coalition proposed three months, saying deep in time after the next elections, and then the Minister made a constructive compromise by the end of September, saying that Parliament will have one more day to deal with this before the next elections, probably at the polling station itself. If there was nothing wrong with the earthquake recovery, then the Minister would not be afraid to send this report to the National Assembly even in a pre-election period because he could boast of how successful he was. I don't know why he'd be afraid of that, because it would just be good for him. Thus, the Minister is afraid to discuss this report on the implementation of the law and has therefore proposed a deadline to prevent this debate. If anyone needs an even stronger argument to suspect that something was wrong with this reconstruction, then I don't know what else can be done as an argument. Well, in those days, when we talked a lot to the affected in this area, there were a lot of comments on the day that even in previous years appeared occasionally in the media, but somehow they did not get a response. In my opinion, too, because this Council for the Coordination of Development and Earthquake Reconstruction did not work and people did not have or representatives of local communities did not have a practical place to say these things and demand different behaviour. But from these comments on the earthquake recovery, which I will mention in order to avoid further similar errors, it is possible to narrow down four, five-some repeating from several cities - comments that cannot be accidental. If only one of the affected people would say this, it is one thing, if this is something that everyone who has received this earthquake recovery thinks is a problem, then it is probably a serious problem if even a petition is signed. If those who put it together somehow do not hope to perform publicly, it means that there must be a serious problem here or that someone is afraid of the consequences. Well, what are the main comments? The most frequently heard remark is that too much money for an earthquake recovery after the earthquake in 1998 was collected by an overpriced administration. It is also possible to draw a similar conclusion from these databases, which we have heard from representatives of the government on the home working body and here. Too much money has been collected by the administration. Here, the Ministry of Environment and Space, after the entry into force of this law in 1998, simply awarded the project from Nova Gorica the status of the state technical office without a call for tender. And many contractors, who had already been linked to this private company, were making it easier to obtain different concessions. And if different concessions are made easier, then the results are usually more loose. The next comment that is heard, practically from all ends, is that the projects were too expensive. Here people know exactly how much to pay for construction projects if someone worked in a private director's house. That there were 600,000, 700,000, and here were the costs of these projects over millions, sometimes significantly more. So there was no rationalisation because we had this state technically written because it worked in one place, but it was more expensive. Then the following comment, which proved to be very meaningful or fitting, is that many times without any substantial professional argument, it insisted on adaptations of the old houses damaged by the earthquake rather than on new constructions, as the owners or the locals wanted. And that was said, but you have to go into adaptation if you don't go into adaptation and decide to do new construction, but there will be no state aid. The adaptation projects were mostly more expensive than the new construction, I think about documentation and everything else because it was easier to hide or justify, and this was probably also the motive to insist on it. That this has been unjustifiable in many cases can be seen by anyone who now walks on the Chessoca or Bovec and sees the consequences of the last earthquake. Then there is a lot of evidence among people about customerism as well as corruption in ministry relations - state technical office - individual contractors. They're very specific cases. I'm not going to mention them here. I think it's time for the report. In part, the media wrote about this. All of this has created an atmosphere of mistrust for those who led an earthquake recovery after the earthquake in 1998, and I advise the government to consider whether it is possible in such an atmosphere to lead an earthquake after the earthquake on July 12. We are strongly dissuading this. If anything, then there must be some trust, people must believe those who are now helping them, not that they are the ones they have already addressed to hundreds of eyewitnesses, but that nothing has happened, and most of all they have not received an answer. That is, we do not have the opportunity to have any influence here on government positions or actions, but we even advise that we continue with the exact same team, which among people does not enjoy trust. But as it is said, the specifics of what are very interesting are likely to be at that meeting - let us hope that in this mandate - let us hope that the Minister will change his mind and that government Members will also assess that it would be meaningful to discuss the report on the post-1998 earthquake recovery and development activities before the elections. If things have been as successful as the real government, then I really don't see why you're afraid of it. And then we should also open these mistakes; so that they do not happen again - in our opinion. Today, however, I appeal to all of us to try to give priority to this second part of the law, which speaks of the developmental perspectives of the Court. I appeal to all of you to support our amendments, which we will repeat, some of whom have not been accepted on the Committee because of such or other reservations, are also crucial because of the fact that the mind has prevailed, which has nothing to do with the title of this law. Once again, the law that we are supplementing is not only about the earthquake restoration of buildings and broken houses, but also about the developmental perspective of Soča. One of our key amendments has been rejected if it has no direct connection to the earthquake recovery. It does not, but it has a huge connection to the development perspective of this area! And the goal of this country must be not just to rebuild a few houses that will remain empty, but to restore life in this area. And from this point of view, as has already been said, it seems to me that if the approach is smart, it will not be a cost for the country, but it will be a good investment in a part of Slovenia, which has exceptional development potential due to natural beauty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u25	Thank you, Comrade Janša. My colleague, Miran Potrč, has the floor to present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, Slovenia has a geographical location, which has led to various elementary disasters every so long: floods, floods, droughts and, unfortunately, earthquakes. However, I think that we can say that it may be because of this for many years, I hope to say for decades, a culture of mutual solidarity developed in Slovenia in the face of fundamental disasters and the willingness of people, as well as of governments and authorities, that, as far as possible, it helps to deal effectively with the consequences of elementary disasters while at the same time helping to address the consequences of elementary disasters to have adequate development opportunities and objectives. The debate and decision on this is not simple many times, because it is necessary to make a relative decision, because there are many different views - and sometimes too many ambitions beyond the scope of the possibility that exists in reality - not because of unpreparedness, but because there is a certain proportion between the individual types of disasters, as well as between the individual forms of assistance, there must be that even when it comes to basic accidents, and also because of some of the experiences we have in the past, not always the most favourable for the only acceptable solutions.I will not say in the last 14 days the first and the most clever, but certainly applies in the case of elementary accidents really Slovenian proverb that we have in the past, twice yes. It is also true that it is right to assess all the weaknesses that we have had in the decisions we have made so far, but it is wrong to overcompensate these weaknesses in order to reduce the importance of the decisions we make to address these disasters. For this reason, it seems to me that today's meeting also has the right and good emphasis on the fact that all political parties want to solve this problem. It is not right, and I hope that it will not be too often said that any of the parties, but not the government, is doing so because of the elections because we did not choose the accident, unfortunately the accident has come and it is right that we are trying to save it. In addition, some parties have come to this, probably not because of the elections, but because of the desire to resolve problems, and I think it is right that we are trying to help and contribute together to the decision-making process. All the weaknesses that have been very rightly pointed out to them and to be dealt with later. In the United List of Social Democrats, we support, we think that it has some characteristics that make it worth supporting. Firstly, it recognises that they cannot bear the additional burden of those owners of housing houses that were damaged twice, especially in the 1998 earthquake and this year, if they have fulfilled the obligations they had for rehabilitation in 1998, and therefore we indirectly acknowledge that it is not necessary that all the decisions made at the time were even the most ideal and best. We believe that all simplifications of the procedure, which are precisely linked to making decisions based on smart decisions, are beneficial. I don't think it's true that we're all just focusing on solving housing issues, although there are a lot of proposals in this direction, including to reduce the tax burden, to reduce the liabilities from the credits so far hired, from additional options, donations and so on, but to try to do a lot for the developmental recovery of the Posača. I think that Minister Zdenka Kovac has said some of the elements of the activities so far in this area in relation to the law, I am sure that almost two and a half billion, or exactly two billion 450 million additional funds for development aid in the next few years, are not a negligible sum. I think that the fact that active companies ensure that they are not obliged to pay taxes is the first move, the most urgent one, that many others are still in the future to think that we are not talking about the additional amendments that have been adopted and which provides an additional 5 billion at least of the means to resolve the Court's better transport connections - five has already been, five more - with Slovenia indicating that we want to think about development. We therefore believe that the basis for our optimistic view of the law being prepared is that all those who say that we should make an assessment of it, and that it is not necessary that it is not possible to think better - because this is just a matter of real urgency for both the government and for us in the national assembly - there have been some additional needs. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will be happy to support it because we believe that, in the face of the hardships caused by the damage, helping the people in Posoča. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u27	Thank you, Comrade Potsch. A colleague Ivan Bozič now has the floor to present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. We are talking again in this Chamber about the law on earthquake recovery and development in Posač; and this is sad. Sad to say, for the third time, in this upper court, we are always talking about the Upper Succeeding, which is very affected by natural disasters. I will try to present our opinion in the same way as the average family looks at all these events, say, in Chesovo. In 1915 they had to move because World War I was there, or the front, the houses were destroyed. When they returned, they were repaired and after the war it took several years, 15 years — from 1949 to 1960, 1965 — to give no money to rebuild the houses again because there was a plan to build an accumulation lake. In doing so, I do not take into account the needs of 1917, because there was a very strong earthquake in the Upper Supra, which we do not have much data on. The earthquake occurred in 1976, the 1998 earthquake and the 2004 earthquake. In the 1990s, he demolishes the house four times; every 22 and a half years. Do you and yourself imagine what it means to fix a house every 22 years because you have no chance of doing anything else? In all of this, there is still great snow in 1952, many houses fell below 2m to 3m high snow, and the beach of Stovje in Logo under Mangarto. Indeed, the plague of God in the upper court, every so long everything goes wrong. When the average owner of the house in the Upper House thinks that way he will say, I fixed the house or Father fixed it after World War I, I couldn’t for a long year because of the accumulation lake when I could fix it, I fixed it, then in 1976 the earthquake came when I fixed something again. In 1998, I was told by the State Technical Office that we had done nothing good, that we did not know how to make a decision, and that we did not do well. The assembly facility was not allowed, but I had to accept what the state ordered me to do. And to sign that the credits they've calculated for me will also be paid. And the 2004 earthquake came -- we don't know what we're going to do again. For it is said that man must rebuild the house that is shaken again: it is likely that it is a little flawed: four times he has made it. We do not allow monasteries to continue, but this possibility is given in black with this bill. And I think that's the best solution we have. However, we cannot agree in the parliamentary group that this man, this family, which has repaired the house three times, will for the last time, according to the instructions of the State, assume the obligation to pay, receive now under this law, rebuild the house and repay the credits it had due to the 1998 earthquake. We don't think so, because we seduced these people in 1998. We told them we'd build you a house that would last one degree stronger than it was in 1998. It's not good. In this regard, I would like to stress: for the last 60 years, we have been talking about Upper Lawn and Trenta. We also talked about the Trentars. We can't talk about them anymore today because they're gone. Will this happen to the Bovines? If the information I received is that only 14 children are enrolled in the first class of elementary school, ladies and gentlemen, here in this hall we decide what will be the development! And not the money that goes into the upper court. We will say a little more about the criticism of the restoration so far in 1998 when we receive the Ministry report, but not what was done, but what happened to these facilities and also the cause if they were damaged in the earthquake on 12 July this year. And I think the government and the president and the minister of the environment and space will take over to find out the truth about what was wrong, that such objects could barely handle anything. I'd like to point out one more thing. We are talking too often only about the Ministry of the Environment and the area that was doing the reconstruction. Where are the people of civil self-initiative, landscapers, and architects who stubbornly insisted on the principle of the house? If this house doesn't last three earthquakes, we can't build it anymore. And why don't you set up the assembly facilities? Why not the sheets on the roof, but we're giving tons and tons of bricks to the roof? We prescribe such nonsense! The question is always, and the question will only be, how long will people stay here? How long will they endure this restoration after each earthquake, after natural disasters? And, of course, we get to what I said and said on the Infrastructure Committee, but also three years ago, and when we passed the last law, the unfairly charged TOM at the time of the moratorium. The people who took the loans were charged to the TOM for the first year, added to the principal, and the principal for the second year increased again for the TOM and thus we received more than 20% of the obligation to repay the loan. It wasn't good and it wasn't good. Unfortunately, my amendment on this was not accepted. In dealing with the previous law, I myself have tabled a similar amendment, such as that of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 16. Indeed, in the country of the Republic of Slovenia we are very wrong when we do not want to adopt a law on taxation of property as soon as possible and directing development through different taxation. Please, someone who works in Cezsocha, as I have previously called - as taxed as someone in Ljubljana! When we talk about development - demographic law years ago I often criticized, because whether we have plumbing, asphalt, sewerage, electricity and that we will have only children, it is a little long way. They already have families in town, but the baby's not. And even in this law, let us look only at the people, for when the last of the Bovines depart, then the Bovine will be no more, at least as he was, and as I imagine him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u29	Thanks, buddy Christmas. And the position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Comrade Lenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Earthquake Reconstruction and Promotion of Development in Posoča. We agree with the Government's argument that the consequences of the natural disaster are so extensive and severe that the affected in the area must be provided with all the necessary state aid, immediately and in the medium term. We are pleased to note that this time our government has responded very quickly and has prepared an appropriate proposal for a law that will allow the affected to be remedied as soon as possible. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners' parliamentary group, we were unable to get fully acquainted with the bill, because we did not have enough time for it, because we received the bill this morning, but the proposed solution shows us at first sight that the government has decided that the whole process will be debirocratized and that it will give greater weight to both the local community and the affected citizens in co-decision. We also agree with the solutions that provide for cancellations of financial obligations arising from the previous inadequate rehabilitation of the facilities that have been damaged in this earthquake. We also support the proposal, which allows the state to finance the replacement construction of the facilities in its burden if these facilities have been so damaged that their rehabilitation is not taken into account. We agree with the simplification of the procedures for obtaining location permits and other documents related to them. However, we fear that the inadequacy of individual solutions may lead to later uncertainties, so we believe that we should specify the draft law governing this area more precisely. We welcome the fact that monetary donations will be given priority to families with children in education and socially disadvantaged beneficiaries. We also support those bill proposals which provide that state aid funds are used to remedy the business damage caused to legal persons and independent entrepreneurs. Finally, we would like to point out that it is also a good solution to define tax policy measures in relation to that proposal, since it is only in this way that companies and institutions can be stimulated to give resources to the affected to address the consequences of the earthquake. In a number of existing laws, with which we have remedied various natural disasters, this area has been far from misplaced. The proposed solution, however, opens a new way of taxing the contributions of the organisations to compensate for the damage to the affected persons. As we have already mentioned, we will support this bill in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We will now move to a second reading, this is to a debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 22.7.2004 or of the review you are about to receive. I am putting to the debate first Article 1 and the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club to this Article. Here you go. Please, Mr Sinisha Germovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u32	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of the Government. Unfortunately, I will remember the first day after the great disappointment that this proposal brings. Fortunately, this very amendment may reduce this disappointment a little bit, but this amendment was necessary after the Committee's debate, but of course it shows that the government's proposal is very wrong. In fact, this assembly accepts the fourth amendment of this law and always on a basis that does not correspond to the facts and that is why all these amendments to the law have missed the objectives. By the way, what did the government propose? The government has proposed 100% aid for those objects that have been damaged again and, of course, the public among you, colleagues, you do not know that 100% aid for the S project is only an extension of the third construction phase, which means static renovation of the facility or in the new construction process comes to a third stage with interference outside; all that is inside must be done by the injured person himself. And now it will be again. In fact, these objects, which are again damaged, are above the S, it is said, but that means - if I simply say understanding - all ceramics, all installations, parquets or whatever he had, all of which, of course, he paid for the completion of himself and now because of the poor renovation he has this sedition and, it is said, he will pay again. At the same time, the government has not proposed that the current obligations that run for the broken byte be suspended in any way, in order to reprogram or at least during the construction period. What's gonna happen? In fact, the next item will also come to the payment of the building, because of course the government has not been able to have enough judgment to freeze at least these obligations now - not like in 1998, when interest has caused a hundred million additional burdens to the affected by the earthquake - but with a very popular promotion 100% we will help. That, believe me, sounded very optimistic in our people. To hear the esteemed Prime Minister say that the government will help 100% is certainly not only optimistic, but it has been a relief to people. But, of course, now that we say that 100% means for S project, you, if you don't understand it, people understand it very badly. And for that reason, thank God if this amendment is accepted, but because this amendment, which, after the debate, when I asked for a definite answer, what does "per cent" mean, by the LDS Group is the right one. It's real! But! In view of the fact that the government has essentially put this whole amendment in place. In fact, colleagues and colleagues, this proposal for amendments covers only damaged objects, only damaged objects. And we'll have two rows now You've heard; 170 objects are damaged - yes, new. [[...]] Here's to you. If not, "suma sumarum" is so far when they haven't reviewed everything, 800 objects damaged and 150 of them evicted. So we're talking about changes only for damaged objects. And of course we will have two types of citizens: citizens who have new damaged facilities and, of course, deserve special treatment because again going to the refugee, as we say, to the woodshed or to temporary accommodation, I lost everything again because someone ordered you such a reconstruction and you had no choice of new construction if so ordered by the state technical office. Most of the time, however, new constructions endured very well, including the so - called very severe earthquake. I experienced it and it was much worse and worse than it was in 1998. But, as we say, the new constructions have endured, with minor injuries, which are what is usually expected, because you can't do an object like that without any small cosmetic damage coming. At the same time, I must point out that in fact people will be very bitter; they will be surprised how it is possible that everything is actually the same - for those who are new. So, the very expensive projects remain, the same too expensive construction prices remain, the same excruciating procedures remain. Why not simplify and simplify bureaucratic procedures as well? No, this remains the same as before after the previous marriage, it is said, the same way of rebuilding remains. So there's probably no reinforced concrete. The same way and remains the same crew that will lead this reconstruction for these mammals. And that's what you believe will surprise people first, and it will certainly also make them bitter. I'm worried myself! Why is that? Why is that? Have these people not been punished enough by these disasters to be punished again and again with inappropriate recovery in terms of burdens and uncertainty, as to what this restoration will bring? That is why we would conclude this amendment here, but I have a point to make that this is again a type of misinformation and misleading. Certain things are actually sand in the eyes and it is somewhat unrealistic to count that in that end we ourselves are unreasonable people who do not know how to count up to five. That is why I am also reminding you of the consequences of this change, which, as it is said, focuses only on the damaged objects, which are likely to be damaged by the failure of recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Excuse me. The LDS Group has revised its amendment. Repairs in certain parts. You don't have that patch on your desk yet. To be of course a quality debate and until you get this amendment on the bench, allow me to read this, corrected, that the debate will proceed to Article 1 K. The debate is open to Article 1. [[...]] The amendment of the LDS Club has therefore been tabled. The same parliamentary group has corrected this amendment. It shall have the option, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to correct, amend or withdraw the amendment as long as the debate is ongoing. The amendment's been fixed, but you don't have it on the bench yet, so let me read it. After the first paragraph of the new paragraph 3a, a new second paragraph is added, which reads as follows: "Despite the provisions of this Act relating to the scope of the earthquake reconstruction of an individual facility, the increased magnitude of the earthquake recovery or the re-emergency of the apartment facility referred to in the previous paragraph shall also include the restoration of floor and wall coverings, building furniture and electrical, water, heating and sewage installations. Explanation. The consequences of the new earthquake also relate to damage to the construction equipment of the facility, so that the cost of the earthquake recovery would be too burdensome for the injured persons who contributed their own resources to the extent of the damage." So if you've found out in comparison, in this last part it's complemented - at least I think it'll be fast - this amendment will also be on the bench. Mr Minister has made a statement. Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. The government supports this amendment. I'd like to say or deny Mr. Germowski. All the procedures envisaged by the novelties of this law - and they are shortened and I understand that it likes them - will of course apply to those who address the consequences of the damage and have already been damaged in 1998 as well as to those whose facilities were first damaged in 2004.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I will support this complementary amendment, just as you have read it by the chairman, precisely because it complements something that is probably missing, and this is what colleague Germovšek was just talking about. I think that this is a complement, a complement, a complement, and that it actually in some way maximizes this help that people are going to get. And because of this additional amendment, this matter is now, at least as far as I'm concerned, as I see it, sufficiently well arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u38	Thank you, for your word. The Minister replied very quickly that this amendment simply spoke about everything: about those who suffered the earthquake in 1998 and 2004, of course, and about those who suffered only this year. If so, then it is a vital novelty and a significantly better solution when it has been so far. However, if this is not the case, it is such a solution that it would be discriminatory for those who have suffered the earthquake only this year, and that we should wait for the earthquake to be again in order to have the same treatment as those of the citizens of this House who have suffered in 1998, but it would be shameful for this country. Therefore, I would really like, in view of what my colleague Germovšek has just said here, that there is a clear and unequivocal response from the government, whether the solutions to this law will not put those participants in a discriminatory position after the earthquake they suffered this year, against those who have suffered it in 1998 as well. This would certainly need to be cleared up, for otherwise we will make more quarrels and mutual disdains and strife than would be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Germovšek, then Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u40	I didn't get an answer. Whether the accounts will run for credit liabilities smoothly forward now in the time of the greatest agony even when they have temporary residences, or whether any measure will be taken. Because you know when people get a ticket for 50, 60 thousand annuity, but they're out in the woodshed somewhere -- don't think they'll be very happy!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u42	Thank you very much. See, this law does not regulate everything, much of which is regulated either by sub-laws or by other government decisions. Finally, yesterday, the government adopted a series of conclusions which are all intended to implement certain aid measures for the Court, which you do not even know about, because they were not specifically presented to the public or perhaps there was not so much interest in them. When we talk about these other measures, I can also tell the other two. One is a sub-legislative act based on the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which, of course, will not take account of the project from the law, which has been very precise and very rigidly described in the law, but will be significantly more flexible. However, another such measure is, of course, a measure of the Housing Fund itself, as regards the freezing of the repayment or the suspension of the payment of the obligations on housing loans in buildings which are defined as unfit for residence. At this point, I do not have an accurate analysis of how many of these 66 facilities, which are defined as unfit to stay, are owned by owners who pay off the credit of the housing fund, I do not yet have this data, but I will get it relatively short and of course we will take the appropriate action. However, you do not think that every detail should be regulated in this law, since the government has a number of other mechanisms available to help.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Germovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u44	The practice has been such since the previous earthquake that all the tax obligations, i.e., went smoothly forward because, of course, these institutions cannot stop this without a particular basis. And these obligations went smoothly further. This is actually a great absurdity, and not least a challenge to people. I would still repeat, the people who now have re-renovated facilities evicted will be paying obligations for them, obviously without freezing. Besides, I'd like to fix the minister. I was previously contacted from the municipality, currently evicted from 150 buildings and not 66. 150 inappropriate accommodations, not 66, were sent to me from the congregation half an hour ago, and that is such information.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u45	Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u46	I would like to ask the leadership of the National Assembly on a case-by-case basis. Since I have listened to these discussions at the working body meeting again, I am interested in how long we will be working and if we are done. I'd at least suggest by eight o'clock. When will we continue this session tomorrow - or in the autumn?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u47	Thank you so much for asking. I hope you know exactly that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, given the urgency of the procedure, no one is able to take the floor when it comes to articles and amendments. It is to be expected, given that the debate lasted several hours on the Infrastructure Committee, that the debate will, of course, be rational and today we will be able to conclude what we have set ourselves as a goal in due course and also adopt legislation. That is how all I can do from this city is to ask Members and Members to be really limited in the debates to the article, to the objective pursued by the amendment, and to the vote. May I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia? I conclude the debate. If anyone is around, please join us because we're going to vote. We therefore vote on the amendment of the LDS to Article 1. We're voting. I think there's enough of us in the hall. Please check the voting devices. The second time, we will vote on the amendment of the LDS – the amended amendment. We're voting. We will vote for the third time at 6.52 p.m. I would really ask that we continue to coexist in species, hold rational discussions on individual amendments and vote on the amendments and articles and the law as a whole. In 10 minutes, please come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u48	Your Honor! This is the third time we will vote on the amendment of the LDS to Article 1. I am really asking for attention, and also for rational discussions on individual amendments and articles, so that we can adopt the law today. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 3 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues or colleagues! On the Infrastructure Committee, we have adopted an amendment to the new Article 3a, which is now Article 3, where we also added R203/1002 or Predel-Bovec Road. If you remember a little while ago when we dealt with the problem of Stovje's villain and the restoration of the road in Logo under Mangart. At that time, two Ponton Bridges were built. The last two who were on reserve in Slovenia are placed there. You need to do the viaducts as you please. According to the State Roads Directorate, this requires 600 million tolars and 400 million to regulate the road beyond the Kluža fortress. Whoever drove by there knows that this will be a big, demanding project, but for a road where it is difficult to meet an ordinary passenger car today and a slightly larger truck, there is a big problem. I ask that this amendment be supported because this would reconcile the matter with the full amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I too will support this amendment, even though I expected that the committee might be discussing any other amendments with a higher heading. Why? Personally, I am disappointed at all the heights that I think are modest, too modest for a quick recovery and especially for those who have suffered the second time from a natural earthquake. Well, the wire, as it did years ago, did not give me peace to look at the web site and via the Internet to extract from the awesomely large data and information loaded to make some comparison of the earthquakes of 1998 in the Susat of the nearest earthquake, and again, like - one of them will remember it, to an earthquake in Japan in the town of Kobe, which had occurred several years before the earthquake in Posoč, but very interesting comparisons will be made for both areas. It will be very difficult to compare, this is the pure truth, during the Kobe earthquake and the earthquake in Posoča, but allow me. So it happened in Japan on January 17, 1995, in Sosoča, on April 12, 1998. The level of strength in Japan was 7.2 by Richtar scale, in Bovska 5.6 by Europe. The affected population in Japan was 560,000, including some of the municipalities of Gorenje, 56,000, which is a thousand times less. Number of dead: 55,000 in Japan; well, fortunately, as far as I have data, there were no fatalities in Posač. However, it is interesting to note that in Kobe, more than half of the population, while in Posoča, according to the data you also have on the Internet sites of the Ministry of Environment and Space, 600. The number of damaged buildings in Japan in this town was 102,000 buildings destroyed and destroyed, but according to data from the Ministry - in Sosoč 2890. Next: completely destroyed demolition facilities were 94.600 in Kobe - so we are talking about numbers that we are not imagining at all - while the new constructions in Soča were around 200. Net square meters of area - data is very interesting - in Japan 83 million 890 thousand square meters of net usable surfaces, in Sosoč 300,000. Damage assessment: $270 billion in Japan, $20 million in Posač.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u52	Mr. Rupar, I don't mean to be rude, but I'm asking you nicely before we go to the third vote, as well as in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u53	It'll be interesting, I think, even given the attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u54	Look, Mr. Rupar, there is no general debate. The debate is Article 3rd. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u55	It's about that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u56	I listened very carefully, and no better solution will be given to this contribution. We could table an amendment. So, indeed, even because of the indignation of other fellow Members that your debate is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I must remind you of this. So please move on to Article 3 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u57	And I'm going to say that the actual damage was $340 billion in Japan and 0.8 million or 83 million in Japan, which is a mistake. In the assessment of the damage in Posoča, 300% of the money recovered was actually spent. It is interesting to note, however, that the rehabilitations in Japan, i.e. those crazy numbers that I mentioned earlier, were six years old and are just as close to today as the earthquake was in Posača; therefore, in Japan they have already completed the rehabilitation of this Kobe. Well, we have not yet received reports from the ministry or from the commission, which we can estimate is that the first earthquake has not yet brought the matter to an end. About this amendment. Once again, I regret that there was no idea to facilitate and increase the sum of money and, of course, to accelerate the duration of the restoration of Soča. If you are looking at this Article, then you can estimate that this renewal will last until 2013. By then, many of us will know where, but the sums set out in this article are significantly too small. Why it was possible in the Japanese city of Kobe to rehabilitate such a large city, half a million inhabitants and 100,000 demolished buildings - because it brought Japan together. They also had a million volunteers to rebuild the city. So they were actually building, and they gave people a lot of opportunities to participate in the rehabilitation of their both infrastructural facilities, cities, countries, as well as individual dwellings and so on. How did they do that? They gave them a free project. This was financed by the Government of the State of Japan. With us, for example, it costs the project individually from 600,000 to 2 million. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, I studied that myself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u58	Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u59	they gave them a chance [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u60	Secondly, I remind you not to talk about the article and not the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u61	Wait, I'll get there.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u62	You can't. It's a clear violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u63	they gave them the possibility of free connections to infrastructure, gas, electricity, water. [[...]] This has not happened in Posač, and there is probably no way that this can happen. They were given 60% of grants for individual construction of buildings and apartments. Well, it was very generous and very large. So two years after the earthquake there the inhabitants had free urban transport; what's very interesting is the oil derivatives were all those who had a broken building or individual residence - they were reduced by 50%. So they had a chance to build [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, it's hard to compare the Japanese, but with us, you're saying that Slovenia is the most successful country in transition. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u64	Mr. Rupar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u65	that we live in prosperity, etc. [[...]] So... [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] Yeah, that's right. [[...]] So the international comparison is definitely part of the law. Well, there's something else I'd like to say if you're already forcing me to stop. 200 buildings, as much as they need to be repaired now, compared to the city of Ljubljana; those here in Ljubljana are the councilors, you know that Ljubljana builds more than 200 apartments for sale. So if the money is in the middle, if the capital is coming back, if it's the profits, then it can happen in one year. We cannot build 150 houses in Posoča until 2013! I'm sorry, as a member of this National Assembly, for this slowness and for what's going on there, I'm ashamed, I'm ashamed that I could have done without the pardon yes, but the Tržič municipality is very solid about this, and I must say that. [[...]] Compared to the government, let's say, very well. And it should be done here that, for the first time, people who are just as troubled people, do not trust, as it is necessary, the restoration system of the Posačje change and it is necessary to spend much more money to do so than just and only as much as is enshrined in the law! 400 million a year, after 300 million a year, which of course means 10 modest dwellings in Ljubljana. So many would this national assembly and government devote, say, to Posača, which is actually a mockery of those residents who are there. So that's part two, if you've been reading marriages and part two is talking about roads, that's it. Well, and now there's something else about rehabilitation in Kobe, like roads and state infrastructure. Let me say that the last important issue in Kobe in connection with the rehabilitation of that catastrophic earthquake was made in the spring of 2001 when they opened parks for the inhabitants in memory of the victims of that earthquake. Well, we definitely won't be talking about this, because we've been stretching and stretching this poor little road across Vršič through Trento until 2013, which seems to me, or by the year 2000 - as long as it's written there - that is, for too long, all together for too long. By highlighting something else: Kobe had a huge number of miles of roads, a railway, a destroyed port, because it was one of the most important ports in Japan, and not least that Kobe had repaired and built 155 new primary schools in the first year. So, it is, in my opinion, an appropriate comparison in terms of, I will say, the width of both earthquakes and also the efforts of the Japanese Government compared to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to remedy the consequences of the rehabilitation. Personally, I find it terrifying to listen to people come from Posač, when you talk about the cost of facades that are actually real change compared to damage. And so many projects, some red tape that doesn't help with rapid recovery! If the government had the will to pool money, to find it and to devote it, then I am sure that the earthquake that has taken place now would not have been the black mark of this government and the recovery that took place in these periods after the first earthquake. This, of course, reminds us that it is really necessary to think carefully - I am sorry that only you are partly listening, but not anyone else - it is a pity that in this country does not exploit institutions so much more involved in the rehabilitation so that it will be completed as soon as possible, so we are just discussing what it would be like, how would, who would draw something, who would issue something, while people from the first earthquake to today, still live outside their original homes or remain outside their original homes, still on television watching what so-called trailers are personally terrible and very empathetic with these people. Our task is not only to support this amendment of the People's Party, our task is to warn and to do everything, regardless of the future government, that the rehabilitation and this endless problem of the yoke of snakes, which is called the earthquake recovery in Posača, ends as soon as possible - not for the politicians, not for the Liberals, not for the Slovenian Democratic Party, but for those who hope and wait there for the solidarity of Slovenia and for the more open hands of those who have money or have money and we can use it to rebuild their homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Školč, who has notified himself, Article 3 does not speak of any buildings. Article 3 discusses the implementation of development aid measures, coherent regional development and investment maintenance and construction of state roads in these sections. And it is my duty to frame the debate in this article and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which is higher to maintain roads from 2 billion to 2 billion 200. And I very much ask, even in the light of the Members' and Members' appeals, that we would like to conclude today with the consideration of this law, so that we stick to the rules of procedure at least. I've been given too many readings to break it myself, but I'm obliged to warn you that we're talking about what we're supposed to be talking about. Indeed, I would like to ask you further to limit yourself to the debate on what we can discuss. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u67	Thank you, Vice President. I agree that the chairman is for making order, but in this case, of course, one would say, as it sounds, you have not done your duty to allow Mr Rupar to speak about those things that are not in this article, but that is more, I will say, a note at the edge, completely irrelevant and more because of letting go of all that we could say about the previous performance, but because Mr Rupar himself said he was ashamed, he was, I will say, forgiven in advance. This Article refers to Article 5 of the previous earthquake recovery and development measures Act. This article is very important because it is mainly about development measures and not about recovery, as we discussed earlier. It brings, I will say, two important innovations; to extend the development measures from 2006, if I am not mistaken, from the current law to 2013, and brings something that can trigger additional controversy, to somehow bring the country's obligation to build faster road infrastructure in this area. The Infrastructural Committee opened my proposal, which means that what the Ministry of Transport and Relations with its services would have planned in 10 years, at a move from Želen to Tolmin and from Tolmin through Kobarid, Žaga, Bovec, Vršič to Trento, to make this road a serious and decent regional road. The Committee supported this and thus reduced the time provided for in these documents to 5 years. This means a huge shift, as you can see, development measures and assistance to individuals will have significant strength if these sites are truly linked to effective links with central Slovenia and other more developed places. The proposal, also supported by the committee at the initiative of colleague Bozič, also includes the foot of the road through Logo under Mangart to Predil. The number that we are now bringing up in essence also really sums up the sum of those projects that are on this road from Bovec to Predil in these five years. From this point of view, the figures are correct in relation to documents produced in the government. But there's one more leg with it. If these numbers were not supported by me, it means that that amendment adopted by the committee would be limping at an estimated amount of 1 billion at that move. That, I'll say, is the content of this amendment, which is of its own free will. And I stopped by because it's very ambitious, because it's simply not what my friend Rupar says it's nothing. This is the money that, as has been said many times here, roads in northern Primorsk have not seen from Mussolini forward. So to say that this is nothing means simply not understanding the situation in the Upper Lawn. On the other hand, to delay this good climate in the National Assembly so that these sites are also somehow overturned by good communication, thus in fact other measures and assistance to individuals and assistance to different economic operators will have a significant impact. I would therefore appeal to support this and not to give any amounts that are at least for the places from which I come, enormously large, not nothing. If this is worthless in the Market, then give us some of this change, and we'll do a lot with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. I accept the criticism. Mr Rupar, I will follow your debate very closely.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u69	I won't discuss it. That's it, I wasn't talking about "nothing." That's not true. I was talking too little money, I was talking about a slow recovery, and I appealed if it was possible to get more and make it even faster. That was my interpretation. I wasn't talking about "nothing." But of course, if we just look at when the road over Vršič was cleared this year, it's too small, too small. And all I've talked about is this, Mr. School, and I don't allow the fabrication of my statements. The law is definitely necessary. I'll back him up, too. We'll all support him. It's a positive climate. And how important this law already says that in the first marriage we had an interpreter only by the secretary, I think it was Mr Blagna at the time, today we had half the government here almost, so it's either so important or it's time for elections - something is wrong. But still, please don't make statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I think I can wrap this up. I invite MPs and MPs to the hall, but I think we've had enough. We will therefore vote on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 3. We're voting. I think there's more of us in the hall. May I have your attention, please? For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 30 votes against 4. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting Article 8 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article in the debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Tanko, then Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u71	Thank you very much. See, this article or this amendment gives the possibility to make a complete renewal of the Soča not only of the part where the permanent inhabitants are, but simply of all the facilities, so that after the completion of the reconstruction we will not get a semi-broken Soča. I think that, earlier in the debate and in the committee, all these border problems that arise mainly because of different property or co-ownership, even many of these facilities have not been inhabited for economic reasons, because there are simply not enough jobs, there are no other conditions, and if there are going to be some comprehensive development of the Court, if there is to be an activity, such as tourism, etc., then it is imperative that such an area be fully restored. And I don't think it makes sense for the object owners to be separated. After all, I am interested in how we would have acted in the case, let's say that some of these owners of the Italians would have pleaded for some compromise again. Would we then hope to accept this under this cover of European legislative equality, or do we hope to accept it only for those who are our citizens? I therefore propose that you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The government opposes this amendment. It's about so-called weekenders. We believe that earthquake relief needs to be directed primarily to the inhabitants who live there. After all, it's about solving their existential pressures. To all those who own the facilities, however, live elsewhere, it is not a matter of resolving the existing pressures and, of course, we do not think that it is appropriate to spend State money on this. In particular, I would like to point out that, regardless of the intention of the applicants, this amendment is also quite flawed. In fact, he says; in Article 11, a new eighth paragraph is added, and then he says that these so-called weekenders are entitled to the means of recovery. In fact, the applicants should then cut into a number of other articles, where they should define, at what height, what is considered as a criterion and so on and so forth. In short, the provision or amendment should be broken down, and this is now only a general definition, and then no later in the law of enforcement. Therefore, even if this were accepted, of course they would not get anything, because they are not in the articles where it is specifically defined what someone gets, nowhere else are they worked out. This would therefore cause considerable confusion and also dissension among those who would think that they are justified to something now, but in reality they should give me more from the State - because they are not, because it does not say anything, it is not specifically worked out in law. That is how we oppose this amendment in every way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. So the minister is definitely right at work when he says that it is necessary to first take care of the existence of people who are there with permanent residence and, of course, perform all other functions of life, from work to school and so on. But I don't understand the claim that, of course, I interpreted it correctly, that the weekenders are over there or that they're unwanted. So that's how I personally understood the matter, because now, if they're hurt, we're not helping them - so let them find themselves as they want. But if, in the opening part of today's debate, we have listened to the Minister as to how regional development is, how to speed up, I don't know what, tourism and so on, then it seems to me that in this case it is the best opportunity for the Court to attract more people coming from elsewhere, even in their weekends, because they obviously have money. And that money, of course, is spent in this work, if, of course, they live there when they're there. And I think it's right and perfectly justified that once we save the existence of a permanent population in this area, we also take care of these people, because part of this population lives on these weekenders and offers and sells their services, and it seems unacceptable to me that they are considered as strangers or, I'll say, as some superfluous arrivals simply rejects them. And I think it's right for you to join me, too, because I'm going to support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Kremjar, Mr Janša, Mr Kavčič. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. I think that, despite the fact that tourism, the development of tourism and, within this, weekending is also a useful thing, of course, even for these places or perhaps especially for these places. But we have to separate some things here. The law and the state in this case will help because of the hardship of people, because nature has harmed them in such a way that they are existentially endangered. Weekends aren't inexistently threatened. And it is, I already said on the board, this proposal is unhygienic. Not to use any worse word than that. I'm not going to talk about whether we probably have, or whether some Members have weekends there, and I doubt that's what this is about. I don't think that's what this is about. I don't want to believe it's because of this, but even if I had it there, it's incorrect, it's the taxpayer's money that this country will use instead of some other things necessary in this country, it will use to help people in distress. And I need to help people in distress, and I will support all of this, but of course not this, because this is not helping people in distress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u79	I used to say on behalf of the parliamentary group that this is not how the government simplifies this problem and that it has a blind spot when it comes to the categories it sees as being affected. There are more than just buildings where people who have a permanent residence live, and buildings that are weekends. In Posoč, there are many family houses in which no one has a permanent residence, supported by the papates, the children of those who have already died, who had to have a belly for bread in the country or even abroad. I think it's both the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament, and probably some Members - at least we got it - received a letter from two Robic sisters who wrote that their family house was damaged or severely damaged in the 1998 earthquake, that they restored it themselves without any help, and now it's broken again. And once again they are not entitled to any aid, even though it is the people who have grown there, who have had to eat bread with their stomachs, even because of the country's unfair development policy or its predecessors, that they intend to return, that they will be very difficult because it is probably impossible to rebuild facilities twice in six years without any help. And in what Mr Kremjar, as well as Mr Minister, has said, it is easy to forget that this novel of the law we are talking about today also bears the title not only of the earthquake reconstruction of the buildings, but also of the promotion of development in Posoč. Now, whether it is possible to promote development in the Societies without humans, there must be measures here to ensure that those who have already lived there move back. Otherwise there will be no development, otherwise these billions of investments are then, from the point of view of some national interest, the wrong money, if we count on it to be no more people in 15 years. [[...]] So if this amendment is not a good one, and if someone thinks it is an unjustified aid here, then the government should propose a different text or the one who opposes it, you propose a different text for these intermediate situations, which are not objects with a permanent residence of someone or not weekends. And because of the demographic threat of the Court, there are many, probably more than weekends, and this is what we have been alerting the Minister, although we have warned him that he knows what it is, he is still talking about weekenders and he is misleading the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u81	This law must take account of one of its substantive bases, that is, solidarity. This means that we take money from one part of our citizens to devote it to those who are in such a serious situation that it is imperative to help them. This should be in front of the eyes; it is not money that comes from the sky; it is money that we take from the taxpayers. Therefore, in protecting the various forms of property, and in terms of the impact on development of a particular form of this financing, it is also necessary to bear in mind the fact that, in order to protect property such as real estate, there is an institution called real estate insurance and real estate, such as weekends, of course, there is no reason for their owners not to shield them from a premium whose height is comparable to the amount of the premium for a passenger car. This means that it is good that weekenders are also present, that even people who generally do not have a permanent residence in Posač are present there, but directly supporting these damage at these facilities would go beyond the acceptable limit for those who, in principle, have to finance this reconstruction. That's why I think it's much more important for it to focus, say, 2 billion 450 million for structural development aid. That is why I think it is much more important to realize what we have written in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia; this means that we will step up the building of a road connection of cross-border importance that connects Northern Primorska with Central Slovenia. These are the investments that will actually give rise to development momentum for both the Sootje and the northern Primorska. While the direct result of this amendment would, however, be aimed at an overly narrow segment of potential recipients and therefore I cannot support it because I do not think it is sufficiently in line with the clearly announced objective of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Germovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u83	Thank you, for your word. I regret Mr Kremjar's last debate and debate, but they are not guilty of such a debate, it is the government's fault, of course, that has misinformed this assembly again. In fact, in the issues that we have also presented to the government, I have prepared the problems in person and the municipality has supported them and the mayor has sent them to two ministries: financial and environmental, it has been made clear that it is not meant, of course, that owners from elsewhere have the same status. I even wrote a question or just a loan because the end of the loan is not something that would cost taxpayers or whatever. In addition, you need to know from the first earthquake that because it was only connected to permanent residence, 60% of the damaged facilities were not restored. And that's why we have problems that those who have been rehabilitating keep their houses unrenewable, that they have a disaster now. And that's why from experience - I'm a native, I'm not a weekender - and without supporting weekenders, of course, the easiest thing to do is to get opponents, when you say, these are weekenders, that's how it is. Not at all of those 60% of the damaged facilities that were not touched or how much they were repaired without State aid, I have no data, there is a large majority of those, as they say, who were visiting their home, but above all it is important, that the people who were conducting the reconstruction know what the problem was, where the co-ownership was, and then those who could be rehabilitating, those who care for them now could not, because you cannot complete the facility if they are not all for. However, the owner, a relative from elsewhere, refused to give money, not because he did not want to, but because he did not receive help and had nothing to do with it. And these are the practices that have now shown that, especially in Chessocha, when a whole series of houses are held together, they can be two owners from elsewhere and so on to provide treatment. I myself stated and asked the question for only credit, but not for what comes out of this discussion. That was on the government. The government immediately rejected it, but that's what we, as the thesis, supported and intervened immediately. And then the cartoons come - I'm sorry, I'm not worried about the weekendrs, they'll find each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I will support this amendment, and I will explain why. Before II. These three municipalities, Tolmin, Kobarid and Bovec, numbered 36,000 people. Today, we are no longer 20,000. People are gone. When I was a woodsman, even every fourth forest owner doesn't know where his parcels are. People live everywhere: in Novi Gorica Kranj, Ljubljana, Celje, Maribor, also some in Sarajevo, Belgrade, also in Argentina, Australia. And why not allow these people to get credit to rebuild their home if they want to return if they want to repair this house? I really don't understand. Another time. When you talk about weekenders, mostly weekenders in Sochi, Trent has a permanent residence there. Somewhere else in Slovenia, this house pays no taxes on weekends; so this amendment does not talk about weekenders, but about people who live elsewhere and want to fix their home. If we are against it, let us be, but let us be aware that after you talk about the growth of the landscape, let us also say that we ourselves are willing to heal because we do not want people to rebuild their home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, Mr. Lenko, then Mr. Minister. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u87	I don't like to argue, but I don't think we're opening up some questions that aren't related to it. We have thousands of abandoned houses in Slovenia, unfortunately. I'm sorry. In Haloza, in Prekmurje and everywhere else, in Dolenjska, in Kozianski, Notranj. You can see how many there are. And of course, these things need to be solved by some smart state policy, that people come back, that they can survive there, especially so that they don't leave, etc. And there are the same problems, the houses are just as unabstained, they are collapsing, and no one is supporting them, and at the end of that house is gone, and there is no one to care for this house. And this has nothing to do with the earthquake, and this has nothing to do with the problems that we are talking about today. So don't talk about it, because, of course, these stories can only be a front for that, but we also want to get the weekenders inside. That, too. Probably something else. I don't want to see only ugly intentions in what you're saying, and I believe you're speaking mainly because you're worried about the whole situation, but then let's say - although this is going to be very funny, what I'm going to say - let's say that we'll also give state money for the sheltered houses that are being demolished in Haloza and Kozianski. What's the difference? They're abandoned, 30, 40 years there's no one in these houses, no one's worried, and there's no master, there's no one to take care of. It is a very similar situation and there must be something done to make it no longer happen. But here we don't mix the emergency aid people need for an existential matter to survive, so they can be somewhere, so they don't leave, so they don't leave, because we'll have more. That is why this aid must be provided by this country and also by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u88	Mr. Christmas, I don't think you were appointed. Mr. Lenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u89	Thank you very much. So our parliamentary group of this amendment will not support it. I think that colleague Kavčič explained better, at the beginning of his discussion, that this is solidarity, and that in fact you should take it to give to those who are most in need of assistance, who are affected by a natural disaster. Weekends think they'll find their way. In fact, there are also more than 150,000 pensioners who have up to 80,000 pensions. I ask those of you who advocate this amendment, how will you explain to these 150,000 pensioners that you are advocating that they give their taxes to weekenders in the Soot? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I just want to -- I don't want to go into this discussion right now, which you started here, because I think it's kind of fruitless, given the contents of the amendment. I don't know what the amendment's proponents wanted with this amendment, but it's written just like it is. Article 11, which is supposed to be supplemented by this amendment, states, "under the conditions laid down in this Act, State aid funds may be granted" and then are categories. Now there would be another category in these - let's say weekenders or whatever else for those who do not have a permanent residence there, they are owners. But this law for this category later in the other articles does not have any conditions worked out. The conditions for enterprises, for farms, for those in the Triglav National Park area are developed for those who are not, etc. If this text had been adopted, none of these would have been obtained because it was not worked out in the law, but there would have been a major confusion. So if you wanted to, Mr Germovšek said before, at least 10% of the credit to give - you may have wanted it, but it doesn't say anything. So this amendment, please don't support it, because it would only cause confusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Many of you have been notified that you know when you will arrive: Mr Tanko, Bozič, Germovšek, Rupar, Butolen, Drobnič, Petan, Juban. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u93	Look. When any of the things that we're proposing in the opposition won't be accepted, the thing starts to be banalized, and in this case, no one has talked to us about any weekends, but we've only talked about objects. And it is sad that no one listens to the explanation, not even those who say that they listen most attentively. One problem. Second thing. It is important to know that we are talking about a border area, which is also a high mountain area. By the nature of things, by logic, this area is under special conditions and if we want to do anything for areas that are special, then at least these minimum things that we have proposed must be put inside. If such an amendment does not happen to be accepted, then it means that we will maintain non-violence or maintain sustainable emigration about the area, we will maintain sustainable emigration, what is actually happening. I don't know if in a country called Slovenia the interest is to completely empty this border area. I don't think that's an interest and that we should do these things. The next thing is, but it's also actually the cost of these renovations. More or less everywhere and in all the debates so far there has been talk of excessive costs for both state, technical and project costs and so on. Not a word of this, such costs could have been recovered in the past at least a billion or more. Too much. Nobody says a word! If you ask for a report, it will be gone in three months or when no one else will benefit from it. No rationalisation in these matters. Even the government or ministry pays its "piar" in Posoča, only to solve the problems of the beaches, to solve the problems of earthquakes and so on. When we talk about these things, it's a waste of every money, on the other hand, when anything has to be done, and everything with a big spoon is done. What do we need some approach in the House to create some "piar" image? I don't think there's any need. But when we're talking about a case that needs to be solved, it's all over the top, and so on. And banalizing the case with these weekends, I'd say, goes beyond practically all normal boundaries and all the flavor. In the end, we'll have just like a picture on Mars, one nice house and two broken houses next to the facility, which are now empty and so on. And then you'll put out the brochures on the tourist development of Suča. Thank you. Who's gonna watch this? Or perhaps, just because they see how we are developing, how we care for people, how we want an area, I don't know, train and develop for some activity. In the end, all other things are more important than the actual intervention in this room than the actual help of this space. More important is the state-owned office and costs and "piar" and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Christmas, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u95	Thank you very much. In Tolmin's office, I'll give you two cases. Two sisters who live in Ljubljana came near Volarij. They just studied here, stayed here, but they'd go back to the Volars, say, "They'd fix the house if they got something from the earthquake." Another example in the Glasses, very close to, six miles [6 km] from Tolmin, old parents died and no one lived in the house at the time of the earthquake. Children who want to fix the house and at least one move back - can't get any help from an earthquake recovery. Is that right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Germovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u97	Thank you. He stressed that, in fact, the basic problem with all this is that we have poor terminology. Natural disasters cause injured people, everything, no matter who owns them. Of course, who is entitled to state aid, but it is a matter of policy. And, of course, tying to a permanent residence to a certain extent is quite correct. But I'm going to tell you a case where I fucked a reptile in Log, and I found it very difficult to convince Mr Tauzes, who wanted to use the same instrument - a permanent residence. I asked him how you can think that these children in whose homes both parents went were not beneficiaries were not harmed. And of course he understood the situation more clearly, and then he took into account and in the amendment of this Log Law you have to be excused also, I think four, five families, who, of course, at that time had a permanent residence elsewhere, but the parents had already died in these facilities. I mean, of course, I don't think it would be right for anyone to be dead right now, but we might be thinking like that, but we wanted this situation to be taken into account, so that some would be eligible for credit. And it is time to complement only one sentence that the owners, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia are entitled to credit under the terms of this law. Thank you. Credit won't hurt anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Germovšek may amend, supplement or withdraw the amendment tabled until the end of the discussion, the article and the amendment. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u99	Thank you very much. And that is exactly what I would like to suggest that before the vote, we stop for a few minutes to complete this amendment. And personally, that is to say, by opening this debate around weekenders, because no one counted and thought only those who bring the Mercedes for a day, two there. This is definitely, but you shouldn't be too busy in the debate. That was my interpretation. However, I have stressed the definition and I stress that we must continue to ensure from this "solidarity" [[in pomegranates]] Money exists to those who live there and are most in need of it or who need it at all. With regard to the explanation, a colleague from DeSUS will explain how he will explain to 150 000 pensioners how to allocate part of the tax paid to them because they receive only 80 000 SIT pensions, and let me say that this is the result of DeSUS's work in this mandate. If we made sure that the pensions were higher, people, especially those pensioners, would understand and understand this matter much better, and this is probably not the case, because you, your work and your mission in this Parliament, given the information you gave, have failed and you are the first to explain to these people how this can be done. And that's very difficult because I said you didn't do your job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. In fact, it is sad that we devote more time to this discussion to those who have moved out of there than to those who live there and are truly in distress. We are discussing this as if this law will solve all the problems in Suča. Such border areas, from which people migrated, where they left their homes, are huge in Slovenia. I come from a municipality where the population decreased from 2,600 to 1,400 in 50 years. There's a lot of them in our house. This property is often not weekends, because the owners would ask for their own if colleagues calmed down on my left side - I listened carefully to them - so that I could debate. [[...]] These facilities are often not weekends. Because weekends cannot become because potential owners cannot unite, whose property this is, because they are not able to dispose of or sell this property. These potential owners are often also a direct obstacle to the development of the municipality. It happens that we have to collect derogations from the new service rights throughout the world, not only after all the ends of the country, but the owners are relocated around the world, and we should practically get from someone who is in Australia the official right to dig water for someone who still lives there. And for me, the most important thing is the one who lives there. At the moment, we have at least 20 offers in the congregation, including young families, that would buy these facilities because the owners of this property either do not want to save or cannot solve, indirectly encourage the non-population of these areas. Therefore, I cannot support in any way that such owners - I do not know if they are all such, they are probably the ones that Mr Bozič was talking about - that such owners from the state budget should repair the buildings, then they would certainly begin to take an interest in them and sell them, even in the Trente Valley. In this way to solve this earthquake area, I find it inappropriate and it is better to devote all our attention to those who live there and try to solve their problems as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u103	Of course, it is not the same thing, so those decaying objects, which are somehow due to natural ageing, have this throughout Slovenia. We don't talk about these things, not even when we're talking about Posač. We're talking about a natural disaster that affected this and the objects collapsed. We also do not ask questions about the owner's residence in the case of economic objects. There we say, yes, and that's being fixed because it's affecting people. It also has that weekend, because we're not talking about weekends, and other buildings, individual houses, have this character. Moreover, those people who would otherwise have been entitled to such aid are not entitled to other parallel aid, which is an integral part of this comprehensive aid, as is said by Prime Minister Rob. They are not entitled to a grant, to social assistance, to income relief, and I do not know what else is going on. They're not the same. Only in relation to construction. Therefore, it can be said that in this context it is possible to understand because this is the result of a natural disaster and why we should discriminate or discriminate on this basis. They are. What comes as residents in terms of aid and economic development, however, goes only to the group that lives there. That's it. I don't see any reason why we should go out there. I don't know what kind of purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. So when we were talking about objects that are empty, but those people who lived there, who were born there -- I don't know why it has to be mixed with weekenders. It's something else. It's just an excuse if we don't want something, then we find an excuse the cat brings to the tail. On the other hand, I would like to say that this is not an area of empty houses anywhere in Slovenia. Far from it! This is an area that is an earthquake and is also a border area. Each smart country deals specifically with such an area. And talking about empty houses all over Slovenia is one of those excuses again, just so we don't have to do something. On the other hand, can we ask ourselves: Is it true that the technical office cost 3 billion tolars? Either it's two and a half or three and a half, it doesn't matter. It's a series of sizes. If this is true, then let us compare this with the data that we will give 2 billion aid for road infrastructure and good 2 billion direct economic aid. That's a total of 4 billion, that's a little bit more than a technical office. No one is troubled that this aid will now be as great as we gave to bureaucrats. I'm not saying it's not necessary. I'm not saying that, and no one is saying that, but that so much money has to be given for bureaucracy, which then warms your life, which makes it impossible for you to do normal work, because you have to bring in a hundred thousand and one document, that you're credible, that you can run for anything, that you can get some minimum funds or credit that you have to pay for then, and that we're going to give a little more than bureaucrats for that assistance. Listen, if we're going to compose this thing, there's something wrong with it. I'm afraid this isn't working out. On the other hand, you can ask yourself if they also hold the data that the prices were usually two times those, which were elsewhere in Slovenia. That the project, instead of a million, cost almost two million, that the cubic of concrete instead of 10 thousand cost 18,000, that prices there were significantly higher in this reconstruction than elsewhere in Slovenia, that there could only have been privileged companies that did it. And I wonder when we've heard so many times here today, right here at this amendment -- is that solidarity? I don't know if it's solidarity if bureaucracy costs as much as you'd like to help me. And then I ask the guy who told us how we're gonna justify it. Yeah, then we have to ask ourselves how you're going to apologize for giving red tape as much as you'd all give to help. Let's watch the whole thing from this side as well. I'm not saying it might not be a bit of a caricature. I admit that, but if there's a lot or at least some truth, then something doesn't go together. Then don't lecture us about some kind of solidarity. Here I would like to remind you of something else, because today, too, we could have heard a few minutes ago how we could explain such a thing to, say, 150 thousand pensioners. Yes, Your Honor, the answer is quite simple. If you are able to explain in the government and in DeSUS how you have recently reduced pension laws for two pensions, then we can explain that if we want to help someone and if you can explain the rest. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be rude, but I can't help but think of a discussion we had at three extraordinary sessions. There we said: there is no money that we wouldn't give for erased, here, when it comes to our people, when we help them, but here it is - it doesn't go together, it doesn't go again [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u106	Mr Zląbec, I ask you not to disturb Mr Petan, but you are in full violation of the rules of procedure with your debate because you are merely politicising. You have also not touched the amendment under discussion. Please, if we can just focus on the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u107	Thank you for letting me have my word again, Madam Vice President, that you have somehow settled the matter. I wanted to make a comparison. We want to look at the matter in a comprehensive and developmental way. My colleagues were talking about demography, and I'm not going to repeat it, but this amendment is also part of this rescue, part of it, we're not saying that's all, but it's one piece. When I made a comparison that we would give 4 billion for economic aid, direct and infrastructure, and we have given 3 billion for bureaucracy in the previous period, then what we propose in this amendment is still necessary, necessary and reasonable. And that's just what I wanted to justify. And there's no limit to some things so we don't fund her. It's just, I don't know why you have, in this case, when it's a natural disaster, to help those people who are in trouble, but here's a thousand and one and two and three reasons to say, and I'm not going to back it up, because that's because that's what it is. We have different criteria for different areas, and if anyone needs help, then these people are. I am not saying that with this amendment, which we are proposing to resolve the whole matter, we will not solve it, but one part we will solve, and the law is, therefore, every article saves something to then resolve in the law in its entirety. Even with the law we have, which we adopted - I think two years ago - it was also not sure what was promised! Now we see that we cannot even solve this restoration under that law. And even then, you must have been so nonchalant if we suggested anything to you, and we immediately refused because we suggested it. And you're doing the same thing today when we suggest some things to you. And the reason why we're proposing is because you're against it. There are many and more arguments to support this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will not support the amendment, because so far we have not figured out what we would like to do with this amendment, or the things that are being presented, are misleading and impossible. It's obvious that it's weekends, because my colleague Rupar has repeatedly repeated that it's weekends and that people who live in these weekends are constantly or occasionally or never going to attract thousands of tourists who will save the Sučica in a miraculous way. That means it's undisputedly weekends. That you may not be exactly coordinated or informed about what you will be defending yourself, perhaps this will happen to us at some time, but the second part, when you said that these are uninhabited houses, I think that Mr Janša said exactly that people live somewhere in Slovenia or around the world and that then, if the country were to rehabilitate these facilities, these people would come back and there would be a miracle again that they would suddenly have a land inhabited. That's what I added. That's not what either of you said. And that's a story that's amazing. We save people from evicting by saving houses, preventing evictions that are not inhabited. How people who don't exist will move away. You're saying empty houses would stop them from moving out. Those people who aren't in these houses aren't moving out. A very varied description of who owns these various houses, which are all over Slovenia. With us in Goriček you find them as many as you want, and now they are bought, processed and sold by different people from different ends. This probably happens somewhere else, which is right or wrong. But if we're saving buildings that aren't inhabited from government money, the owners probably don't care much about what's going on with them, they probably don't care much about what's going on with them, or they didn't care much about them even when their ancestors might have been in these houses. And of course, they are now interested in saving these objects in this way with some amendment and probably then reselling them if they were interested. And in order for someone to resell these objects forward or sell them to the state to remedy them, of course, I will not support such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u111	Nor am I going to support this amendment without thinking that it is impossible to accept such a solution, of course it is possible, but I think it is not necessarily necessary, and the question is whether it really makes sense. For the reasons that have already been said here, we are in some way trying to provide means of solidarity to those who have been threatened with homes and residence and, on the other hand, we are providing resources for development so as not to move away. Of course, it does not mean that this building fund is not really a problem to Bovškem, Kobariškem, Tolminska or anywhere else. It is likely that this law will sometimes be supplemented and, if I am allowed to think out loud, then of course it cannot be complemented in the way it says here that the owners of the facilities, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia - are entitled to the funds referred to in this article - to shorten. Since this means that, in fact, all aid instruments are also granted irreparable. Would that, say, be approved or not? [[...]] [[The response from the bench.]] Please. [[...]] That's what it says now, and we can talk about what it says. If you bring a new amendment, a new debate will be opened. But as it says, it means that anyone who owns the facility can participate potentially in these assets. To paraphrase my colleague Rupar and I would be really ashamed to vote for such an addition for a simple reason, because no one would believe me not to "set up" something because I have a weekend there. Perhaps it would also be a shame to have a colleague Janša, who has a weekend there, and not to have a financial minister in this House who would not or could convince the public that we have not taken this instrument in order to grab something. What I think about this language, that everyone steals something, doesn't speak, but I don't set it up myself, more of a fellow on the right, but supporting such a solution means essentially sticking a loop around your neck. Not to mention that at least three of us don't need this money. The second is the issue of this building fund. I assure you that this real estate market is, in fact, particularly in Bovsk, if I count down the second one, very attractive. That there's no problem selling a pretty ruined house. The question of what will now happen to this fear of constant natural disasters, but this, don't mind me, these are not Haloze where it's hard to sell. This can be sold, no problem and whoever wants to live there and owns, as it was said, here are some apartments in Ljubljana and I don't know where, this is easily replaced. But it's not that important. But what would suggest a change of heart is that this state-of-the-art office would eventually provide technical documentation for those who would go into some solid reconstruction. But again, it surprises me - and that's why I've come to the floor - the inconsistence of the proponents of these proposals. If we were in the hour back not to trigger the controversy, the two enthusiastic acquaintances of that end claimed that everything was wrong because these houses were being repaired and no new constructions were allowed. In this article, of course, we are committed to repairing houses. Where's the consistency here? Of course, I think we have to do all of these. [[...]] [[The response from the bench.]] That was, Mr Janša, in this speech. [[...]] I am very closely following this discussion. Excuse me? No, I'm saying that the general assessment was that there was a lot of damage done because it was not supposed to be allowed to go into new construction or replacement construction. I would not explain here to the universal assembly how it came to be, in fact, that the congregation of Bovec caused the vast majority of the houses to come under protection. When she came under protection, it couldn't be broken, etc. Of course, this brought some benefits because the houses under protection could receive more resources than those who were not protected. Today, those who took part in these decisions cry out that everything was wrong. But the inconsistence of me is very disturbing, and the marriage must be such that it has, as it is said, a tail and a head of the same body. And in this case, it would seem reasonable to support that the state-owned technical office, in order to maintain this building fund, in order to preserve, say, that heritage that we discussed, say, within the TNP law, that holders, regardless of whether they are permanently staying there or staying anywhere else, are helping to obtain this documentation. Just as it is written, it really means that we are absolutely rich and that we are competing, who else would invent something so that it can turn out in Posač. This would not have been accepted by the people in Posoča if the house had been restored earlier because the documentation had been arranged, while a third person, as was said here, would have lived in a woodshed or some other auxiliary facility. Therefore, for God's sake, please remove this amendment, because at this moment it is only necessary to resolve the hardships of people who do not have a place to live, but others. To reconsider the instruments to assess what this really means. Of course, there are a number of cases that have been discussed, where people can still earn money, or they need help. But the provision, as it was written, means that in fact everyone who owns it can participate in all the help- I don't know if it would be good. It is probably even inconsistent with the fact that it discriminates against owners from, I will say, areas of the European Union because I do not know why someone who is elsewhere would not have the right to some but it is a matter for lawyers, whether it is possible to limit it only to the territory of Slovenia or not. [[...]] In short, many problems are opening up and let us take things along to help those limited numbers of people who are constantly there and others later.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Spindler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I cannot support this amendment with or because such a dilemma is well written here in explanation: "The experiences that followed the Easter earthquake in 1998 have shown that the ownership structure is very diverse and we often encounter co-ownership when owners who do not have a permanent residence in the area affected by the earthquake." [[...]] Who's in charge? I am absolutely in favour of the law to support helping those people who are affected, not in such a way that we give to someone who lives elsewhere. This man can take credit at any bank and restore this facility if he wants it if he needs it for life. I just don't think he needs it, and it is precisely said here that it is necessary to provide assistance to those who have been harmed in this earthquake and to those who live in this room, not to those who come from elsewhere to enjoy this space. Such houses and things are enough everywhere in Slovenia. He mentioned Geza Goričko earlier, and I can mention this at the Croatian border, and there are many others, Mr Butolen, and others. On the other hand, when we ask ourselves here what they were doing in the previous renovation, I wonder where the civil protection headquarters were. Aren't they obliged to control these buildings with the mayor in charge and all that if the anomalies were happening? I think that was their mission. There are also some among us who can answer this question. I think we know who's responsible, I think we know who's in the civil protection headquarters, I think there are experts in the building industry who can control, including prices and everything else that's been going on. At that time, you may have supported these anomalies all of you from this area. And I don't agree with that, and I can't support this amendment. I think that we can give this aid for other purposes much more useful to those who need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u115	You're actually masters of deceiving and twisting words. Mr. Geza Juban, you encouraged me to repeat. If you'd listened earlier when I explained how little money is, how much money is too small, how much faster you should be working, then you wouldn't be talking about shit like that. Of course, in the case of weekends, I also told them not to be undesirable in Soča. But I didn't say they had to get the money from the package that's designed to rehabilitate the buildings of the living people there with permanent residence. And you must not fake that word that someone is now fighting against these residents or residents for the benefit of the weekenders. Nobody said that in this room! And that's what school is right. They are definitely not entitled to this money. Of course it's true, but I told you the money was too little. Believe me, from these sums that are listed here, even those people who are saved by their existence will not get enough. So please, you also spoke, saying that this would prevent eviction. Nobody talked about evicting. Everyone who was still talking to me was talking about people who wanted to come back. So it's about people who want to come back and live there and who could do it with this amendment. I hope that it will be corrected at least so that it will be satisfied if, of course, it is accepted. On the other hand, after the first earthquake, 20 billion dollars of money was lost in Posač, not counting the private money that was invested, the credits that people were borrowing. With 20 billion we haven't been able to complete the recovery. Well, it's just a simple calculation. If a prefabricated house or any new building costs 40 million tolars, then calculate how many times a hundred new houses could be built with this money. But we didn't do anything. We have heard that even 60% of those houses that have been damaged since the first earthquake and have not come into the quota or under the first law have not been repaired. How and where and what they do with this money is, of course, another question. But there's only so much to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mr. Juban. I'm informing you about the replica the same way I did before. You get the amended amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which says: "The credit, under the terms of this law, is also justified by the owners and co-owners of the facilities that have been damaged and whose owners or co-owners are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and have permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. With the amendment, we allow the acquisition of credits to owners and co-owners of damaged facilities under the conditions laid down by this law." We are therefore discussing such an amended amendment to this Article. Replica, Mr. Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Comrade Rupar, you were probably not in the hall at the time when your colleagues tried to explain that restored facilities that were not inhabited would be prevented from being blackmailed. But what I've just heard is the most unusual. That 20 billion, which was invested in the Societies, was wasted. But we're going now and what was invested, 20 billion - you've said that twice, you probably won't say that you didn't say that either - that all this money was spent by the state of Slovenia and that there was no benefit to it. Does this law that we now adopt mean that we already know in advance that it will be spent and will not benefit from it? But that kind of politicization, I think, goes beyond all limits. I think that much of this money of the 20 billion has been wisely invested, that there may have been something wrong, that I hope to discuss neither the share nor the absolute amounts, that stories are all possible, even for local February. But let's just say that this money is gone, and that goes beyond all limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u118	Thank you very much. You get a word for the replica to the replica, but really please, we all know that it's pre-election time, but hang on to every word and completely switch to a debate that doesn't contribute to anything, not to a better law and get confused here, etc., I don't think it's appropriate, too important a regulation we accept that what's starting to happen is happening. Please, Mr. Rupar, last time. However, the explanations you are giving seem as if you have not read your amendment to your parliamentary group. The weekenders would, of course, be entitled to all types of aid in this case, just as the amendment had previously been tabled and no one here claimed and deceived, etc. That's the amendment you tabled. I'm asking you so nicely, a brief replica of the replica, and then I will really warn you if we cross a line that is not with the license policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Geza Juban - he has escaped, I hope he hears me. The money that was spent was also part of that money usefully spent, for I did not say that it was completely thrown away. All right, I'll do the Hungarian stuff. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Let's leave it, but 20 billion, excuse me, is 500 new houses worth 40 million. [[...]] That's 500 new houses of 40 million. Please explain and explain whether the money is spent or is thrown away, whether it was too expensive, what we were trying to repair, or whether we were doing too little with this money. Explain to yourself what you want and know, but 20 billion to me - on the market I know how valuable the house is, I've been talking about montage houses - that means 500 new houses. How many new ones do we have in Posoč? So tell me, come on! Please! Now stop pretending and make statements because it's not fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u121	It is very interesting that those who have probably never been there know the most about this area, as did the words of those who live there - say, Mr Germowski or Mr Christmas - as if it were not here. And they made it very clear that the painting wasn't black and white. And I have also told the Minister several times, today and even before, that there are not only two categories, as there are now trying to show here - and our amendment has been flawed in this respect, I agree - but the law you proposed this morning. This morning we received material and you can't expect to get on the material we received this morning, the perfect amendments. In the text that we sent to you yesterday, and a similar text, Mr Germovšek, through the municipality of Bovec, also forwarded it to the government and the government had it, it clearly states that we do not propose an equalization when it comes to aiding facilities where the owners, those who have a permanent residence there, and facilities where the owners do not have a permanent residence there. It clearly states in this text: "Although the beneficiaries of State aid are all owners in the earthquake area, those who have a permanent residence outside the earthquake area have less aid." And then, according to this, our article is divided. And in this amended amendment, which you have now received on the bench or which is now coming to the bench, the matter is even more limited that those who do not have a permanent residence are entitled only to credit under the terms of this law. Perhaps, though, there would be other solutions if we had more time. I think Mr Školč mentioned earlier the possibility that, in my opinion, those who do not have a permanent residence are born there or whatever, at least the right to technical assistance from this state office, which is being paid excessively. However, that the matter is not as clear as those who have never been there speak mainly, but the following is the case. Since Mr Skolcz has talked a lot about this - I think it is his case that is the best. Because a few years ago, we were accompanying the newspaper with a controversy about who will be the president of the City Committee of Liberal Democracy. Mr Školč also ran for president of the City Committee of Liberal Democracy in Ljubljana. But then he turned out to be - yes, that's what Dennwick said. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u122	Mr. Janša, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u123	You dropped out of this candidacy because you said you had a permanent residence in Bovec. I don't know. That's what it says or whatever. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u124	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u125	We know, Mr. Zląbec, they're about different gardeners at the embassies, and so on, but let's leave it at that. The fact is, I want to draw attention to what Mr Christmas had previously pointed out. There are a lot of people in this area who have a registered permanent residence, and they don't live there, but they have weekends. And all of these under this law, when you speak to weekenders, have the right to complete assistance under this law only because they have a registered permanent residence there. So, someone, I'm not going to say that now Mr. School, who says that there is no permanent residence there, but some high government official I know - and, well, I won't say his name - has a registered permanent residence there and will be entitled to full assistance after this law. For example, Maria Chopi, who was born in Bovec, lived there for 30 years and currently has no permanent residence there because she works in Ljubljana, but her parents died while no one lived in the house, and she will not have the right tolar. Because he doesn't have a permanent residence there. Someone who has a permanent residence there doesn't live there, never lived there, but comes only for the weekend, and he won't have the right to help. That's what you do with this law. This is what you do with this law, which in this case is unfair because it only takes into account two categories, but in practice there are many more. We are proposing something else in the interim here, and we are not saying that this is the best solution, but it is certainly better than what you are now proposing. If anyone has a better solution, we're ready to support it. Not now, however, to say that you are against only getting help from those who are actually affected here, because by this law you provide assistance to dozens or hundreds who do not live there, but only have a registered permanent residence. Sure. According to the 1998 law, hundreds have certainly come into this category. That's it. So the picture is in reality exactly the opposite of what the minister is trying to show, and perhaps one of the government's Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, then Mr Germovšek, Mr Butolen, Mr Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. The SDS Group is now proposing a different amendment and proposing that credit, under the terms of this Act, is also eligible for the owners and co-owners of the facilities that have been damaged and so on. This, of course, can be understood by someone who owns property there, under the terms of this law, a housing loan at a residential fund for the purchase of apartments in Ljubljana or Maribor, but can also receive credit under the terms of this law under the so-called Fisheries Fund for equipment or implementation or for business activities, such as in Ljubljana or Maribor. But maybe it's the awkwardly written amendment again. However, I would like to say that in 1998 the Housing Fund was specifically recapitalized to address the housing problems of those who have a permanent residence in the area affected by the earthquake. The Housing Fund has a statutory function of helping to resolve housing issues. He doesn't have a function to help solve the issues, so I won't tell the weekenders again, but those who have facilities somewhere other than a permanent residence. This is not the business function of the Housing Fund and it would, of course, be burdened by a housing fund with a function for which it is not competent, although it would now be if, for example, this amendment were properly written, adopted and, of course, there were no funds to be given to it. No altitude is foreseen here either. At that time, it was specified. The housing fund has recapitalized for, I think, a billion 900 million dollars. That was at the time, by the way, at the same time concluded. There's nothing here now. Just a new commitment to the housing fund. What do we know, maybe suddenly there'll be five billion needs or 100 million -- we don't know. That's the problem with such amendments. You will gnaw, there was little time, and it is again awkwardly written, but certainly this amendment is jumping completely out of this context. I don't think he's right, and I suggest you don't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Germovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u129	In fact, it is difficult to add something after such implementation because, in fact, who knows the procedure, he knows that everything was determined by the procedure for the renovation of an individual facility and then, through the procedures in the national technical office, determined these relationships and also the amount of credit and so on, the amount of own resources. This is not at all about someone taking a loan and buying a weekend or somewhere else or an apartment in Ljubljana. It is a procedure where no one can invent to take it as much as he wants, but in proportion to the damaged facility, in proportion to a specific renewal, which is specified in the protocol, and it is not just that someone will come for credit. Here it was meant only for some small help, because after all I will end up with the loan coming back, the loan is not something irreversible, which would be the abuse of taxpayers' funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u131	Very briefly. The main difference is whether the resident has a permanent residence in the municipality in the earthquake area, even if he does not live there, or has a permanent residence elsewhere. Those who have a permanent residence there pay taxes. And those are also counted for the calculation of the appropriate consumption of the municipalities in which they have registered permanent residence. However, this is a significant difference from those who have only weekends there and their income or tax liabilities are paid where they have a permanent residence, not where they have weekends. Their number is also considered to be an appropriate consumption where they have a permanent residence. That's why these two categories of people just can't be even. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Comrade Janš, I believe you have absolutely good and proper intentions in this amendment. Of course, I also admit that if I trust someone, if I don't believe someone, I can tell them. In that case, I believe. It's just, then you have a very weak support for people who are preparing these things. This amendment doesn't talk about what you've been talking about all the time, so to speak, about indigenous peoples, about the original peoples who moved away and left these houses, but it's just lowering the level of aid, but also for weekenders and even for those who have moved away, and they can't come back. It's just a little less justice for everyone, but for everyone, not just for the ones you've talked about. However, this is also evidence in this text that you mentioned. This is a text that is supposed to be a proposal for a law where it writes about these general objectives as well. The general objectives of the bill are: (a) State aid beneficiaries are all owners in the earthquake area, owners with permanent residence outside the earthquake area are less eligible for financial assistance, and in other areas, projects, treatments are equivalent to owners with permanent residence in the earthquake area. So it's not really this - from this law policy or the bill you've drafted, and this amended amendment - it doesn't mean that we want to actually help those groups of people who want to keep it, but it's a lower level of help for everyone, including, of course, weekenders who get a little less. I think that the warnings that Minister Kopač has been talking about the housing fund are very serious, and that these things cannot possibly be used for these purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I think I can conclude this comprehensive debate on this amendment. Can I? I conclude the debate on the amended amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and Article 8. And we're going to the vote. I ask all Members and Members who are nearby to come to the Chamber. We therefore vote on the amended amendment to Article 8. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, in favour of 15 votes against 31. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting Article 16 into the debate, and I ask for your attention. There are five amendments to this article. Under 1 in the amendment review is the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Under the 2 amendments of the New Slovenia Group. Under 3 is the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which was withdrawn and replaced by two new amendments, with a special paper on the table of Article 16, the amendments under Article 1 and 2. Did you find it? We're going to vote on these two amendments under order number 3 and 4, I'll just say it. And on page three of the amendments you have under four amendments to the same motions, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will vote on this last under five. I'm opening a debate on all five amendments. And I'm asking who wants a word? Nobody. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u135	Thank you very much. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that if someone makes funds for charitable and humanitarian contributions, then there is no point in limiting it in order to benefit from benefits on the income system or income payment system. In fact, this further reduces the possibility of potential candidates to pay more than 3% of the limit. In this case, I think that we need more resources from natural persons to engage in such assistance, but there is no point in limiting them, not with three percent at all. We have already stressed in the discussion on income that countries that have developed systems of civil organisations give and limit this at a significantly higher level, not only at three percent, but go up to 8%, 10%, allow it. In our country, this situation could lead to a substantial drop. There would be no need to limit it at all, and that is why we have tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Germovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. In terms of incentives and these amendments, this is precisely the purpose, the issue of job conservation and what we have failed in the previous law, it is said that with certain tax incentives and incentives to encourage the possible opening and creation of income and jobs in the area, I think this opportunity is now absolutely necessary because it is on the one hand for economic operators, who are now very affected by their activities and practically at the edge of their existence, and on the other hand, on the other hand, we need new jobs affected by the earthquake, or we need to keep them. I think it is right to encourage those who generate income in this area to be encouraged to do so, because the practice after the previous earthquake has shown that, of course, this has not happened. As far as the 48th Article is concerned, two matters are actually concerned. The temporary suspension of payment of obligations that some who do not have to carry out activities at all now because they were demolished by the building in which they carried it out. Then there's the question why you should only stay for 2004, that's 5 months, because for July, all the nice spots will come without problems. For the first time, we ask ourselves why 2004. It would be correct: until the re-establishment of activities to the extent they had before 12 July when they had to leave their facilities. Besides, I have a question from experience. What does that mean, "keep"? We have been trying to write off for a certain period of time, but if it is "keep" in practice from the previous earthquake, it means that in the meantime it will be paid and one day, of course, the second year this retention will be paid in full with interest. Because, as we said at the time, the Moratorium on loans TOM+0 was in the middle of things, because it was as long as it had happened, some 100 million had been raised for this same housing fund at the time of freezing. Of course, who pays for what has now been paid? Poor, unhappy and hurt. Now I'm wondering what that means, "keep"? So five months is only from 1 August to the end of the year of the deposit and in what form will they then pay it: or with late interest, with normal interest, without delay? Of course, that is why I appeal to everyone to support this amendment, to delay for as many years as is proposed - first. Secondly, of course with those instruments which the Minister said were possible, it is said, with data or whatever anyone is in charge to achieve the least, which is, of course, that nothing will be repaid TOM+0 or that this retention will really help, but not of course a new burden as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u138	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State of Kolareva.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. The issue now ran as I understood it under amendment No 2, 48.b, as presented by Mr Drobnič, and hereafter, in that basic review, the amendment to article 4 to 48e. The government is opposed to both amendments. And the reasons are as follows. Amendment number 4 in the basic proposal - the problem of a tax deposit on the profits of legal persons or on income from the activities of taxable persons. These taxpayers will set up annual accounts for 2004 March 2005. And when they can demonstrate in these cases that they have no tax base on the grounds that they were unable to do business, that they did not do business, of course, the tax base will be zero and therefore the tax deposit in 2005 will be zero. And then in the coming years, because the current year's adjustment is determined on the basis of tax accounting, the tax base for the previous year. This is said to be completely pointless and unnecessary in order to prolong this measure under Article 48e to suspend the payment of the income advance even in 2005, 2006, 2007, and so on, as there will, of course, be the actual reflections of the tax accounts. And if he doesn't do business or operate on a substantially smaller scale, of course there won't be any advances. In addition, we already have in the system law, as in the current tax procedure law as well as in the new tax procedure law - I think that Article 30 or 50 - an individual taxpayer may at any time request a tax administration which, in order to reduce the tax on profits or the future tax on legal persons on the basis of naturally justified expectations that it will not have such a large tax base or volume of business on such a large scale and the tax authority must respond to it within 15 days. Let me mention that, even now, this practice is that there are not enough cases of withdrawals for such or other reasons - market losses - this tax is being reduced in the current year, even though the tax bill was higher for the previous year. Thus, this amendment to Article 48e is completely meaningless and is not in fact necessary. Of course, it makes sense for the summer of 2004, because the 2003 accounts are now being paid. Now, however, there has been an earthquake, an extraordinary event, for example, they cannot do business, and therefore the point is that for 2004 there is now an immediate suspension of the implementation of the advances, which is the proposal in this complementary proposal and proposed by the government. With regard to the amendment to Article 48d, or under Article 2 of New Slovenia, the Government also opposes, as this amendment proposes, of course, that, without limitation, neither in percentage nor in amount, the annual tax base may in fact be reduced by any amount earmarked for these purposes. You know that we have had a lot of debate in this House when we adopt a new law on income, which, once again, has significantly increased the overall relief, and at the same time has this individual relief for humanitarian, charitable and such purposes. Moreover, this law, which you are considering today, also brings other aid measures from regional policy, economic policy, including these facilitations. As a result, this amendment is not acceptable due to the non-limitation of the height or the limitation of the time period. At the same time, it must also be said that it is additionally right for companies and institutions, as you have in Article 48a, to provide and simplify additional assistance in the form of donations to direct natural persons beyond the system provision, since it is already provided there that a total of 0.3 legal persons' income may also be allocated to the system of grants. Let me say that the available money for these purposes was estimated at between 2002 and 36 billion. Therefore, in addition to the system provisions aimed at this possibility of donation, it is also possible, in 48.a, for this year, to donate directly to the affected natural persons without limitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u140	Thank you very much. More of you have signed up for the word. Orderly: Kremjar, Minister, Mr Tanko, Mr Drobnic, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. It was probably not enough time for the amendments to be written, in fact, to contain what the proposer wants and to convince us that they want and, of course, I also believe it. In particular, this amendment - I am talking about the first amendment to Article 48a - has a good purpose, but it misses the goal. It is missing at that point because the amendment makes it very clear that: "The companies of the municipalities of Bovec, Kobarid, Tolmin, who carry out or start an economic activity, are exempt from the tax on the income of legal persons created in the area of these municipalities for a period of five years if they maintain or increase the employment rate." Nice and good. He wants to make an amendment and say that by attracting capital to attract companies to open new jobs, to open new opportunities and to this end, it is wonderful and, of course, I am very much in favour. However, the company’s seat can be moved and registered, which is not a problem, such as Mercator, say Petrol, an Austrian company, an Italian company, and has its seat in Bovec. Of course, after this amendment and after this amendment, the payment of this tax can be forgiven, as it is written down. Of course, it is not possible for Mrs Kolarjev to explain better than I do to think that this can be limited in such a way that Petrol would have been established in Bovec, that this means that only for that pump that he created so that he could only be forgiven for that. If the company is based there, it's the company's business and it's reporting all the income, it's reporting all the stuff there and it's there and it's not about that. That is why I say that if and the purpose was certainly the same as I think it was, then this matter must be formulated differently, more precisely and then we will achieve this effect. But there won't be a possible fraud based on what, but at this point, in my judgment, at least it's open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Look, this amendment says exactly what Mr Kremjar said, in theory, if Mercator d.d. Move your seat to Tolmin, Kobarid or Bovec, then all the income that it generates creates in the area of one of these municipalities, and therefore I would not pay for five years - if I understood correctly, five years - a tax on the income of legal persons. This is a very precise explanation of this amendment. It must have meant something else, but it's written like this. Well, not just that! See, tax reliefs are for the first time not permitted under the European Union Directive on taxes. And as a serious country, of course, we must respect the directives of the European Union even in the case of what we are talking about now. It's absolutely unacceptable. Secondly, we believe in the government that there is a much more appropriate development aid, which is targeted, which is not just given to the wire, so that some will be [[in pomegranates]] "war profiteers" can transport the country around, but it is directed from the state budget through a posse development centre that coordinates the development initiatives of all these three municipalities into concrete projects supported by municipalities. Therefore, in Article 3 of this proposal we allocate two billion 450 million tolars in the years 2005 to 2013. This is real development aid because it is targeted because it will definitely have an impact on the exact area of these three municipalities. In this way: to grant some general tax exemption - of course it does not contribute practically to anything. Because, above all, there is only one possibility of abuse of the tax procedure. That is why the Government does not support this amendment and considers it completely irrational to spend public funds. It itself proposes, in our view, a significantly better instrument for development assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u145	Thank you very much. First of all, I would touch on this amended article or this amendment to Article 16, which we have broken down into two amendments, proposing that these humanitarian aid be taken into account not only for 2004, but for the entire period of validity of this Act, which we think is perfectly logical. In the event that this applies only in 2004, this means pure manipulation. Companies, companies and institutions, as well as private individuals, who will also indicate these humanitarian contributions in later years, because when this recovery continues and aid is needed, I think it is right that this matter is also coordinated with this. As for the basic text that we have proposed, this is the first amendment, and we are once again witnessing, I would say, banalising the initiative. Obviously, only what goes through different offices is acceptable to the government, where the costs of offices receive 20.30% of the value for their own operations, for their own services, for wages, that they then assess these projects and also share funds on the basis of such or other criteria. I think it is right to allow companies from this area - including those who will open up a new activity - a direct relief for economic activity in this area and not through institutions. It can do the same, but the primary must be a relief, which is direct. I do not think it is appropriate to leave it to the individual tax officer in Dursov to point out that he will decide whether, due to such conditions and conditions, a company is entitled to apply or is not entitled to apply. I think it's possible to solve this with the law. After all, it's not just about relief. You have also proposed income tax reliefs, which can also be said to be inconsistent with European practice, but obviously not and are obviously necessary for at least 2004 to put these matters into effect. I think that these amendments need to be adopted in order to ensure that the settlement is maintained, that jobs are maintained, that people in this threatened and border area remain. Otherwise, if we do not allow these direct incentives to economic companies, then it is highly likely that they have withdrawn, closed, actually moved to safer and more promising areas in the next or after this period of recovery.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u147	I would like to correct the Secretary of State, Kolarjevo, who said that this relief is not limited in time. It is limited on time in 2004 and is also limited on purpose, not for any humanitarian activity, but only for the one linked to earthquake relief in this place and this year. That's it. It's a real diction, and that's what it says.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u149	When we consider these amendments, which are intended to stimulate or retain economic activity in some way, to preserve jobs, we have heard from Minister Kopač, after his precise interpretation of these amendments. And Mr. Secretary has allowed himself to condemn these amendments for trying to sponsor tax speculators. He even found in these amendments possibilities for "war profiteers" who would make profits out of an accident. And I know who the "war profiteers" are, and the entire House perceives them exactly. And who are the speculators? We have to be honest, because we were there in Sosoča after the first earthquake, after one year that people were properly aware at the time and that we were already at the time of the discussions, for example, when the debate, when we called for an extraordinary meeting of 16.9.1998, saw exactly who the "war winners" were in that earthquake, in which the pockets were flying and did not go into reconstruction, in fact. This state technical office of yours, this office, this office, people have it as a cash flow leak. The big money went down there, the plans were much more expensive. Everything that was through that leak was significantly more expensive than any offer on the market. And because of this, we are making such amendments that would be a direct incentive. Today, much has been said about incentives when the Prime Minister brought in a number of ministers. It is interesting that today, two months before the elections, Mr Minister brought in a whole set of ministers. However, when we adopted the basic law 28.5.1998 after a severe earthquake, the government was represented by a mag. Dusan Blagajne; there was no minister here! None, and most of your efforts or purposes, of course, are this time more [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u150	Mr. Jerovšek, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u151	transparent and better, it comes from having an election in front of you. [[...]] It is right that this great accident in Posoča, thank God, occurred at some time before the elections, when it will not be possible to bet only on those who will benefit from it through the country. And because of this, it really bothers me to say that this is about some "war profiteers" that we want to sponsor "war profiteers". See, in what other direct way should tax exemptions as an additional tax relief? In what other way should it be encouraged? This is my most transparent way. You object to all of this because they actually have "war profits", which in Posač have their own interests and will enforce them. As soon as the elections are over, these "war profiteers" that are connected to the government -- unfortunately, they are connected to the government -- will clearly see that -- will put their pots on, they will put them on sooner, and then the matter will go the other way. And I also see from the implementation of government representatives that they are literally rude on every initiative when the opposition gives an initiative. Go see what we were saying at the time 16.9.1998, and which of these is not true, exactly what happened. And that's when Minister Gantar said [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u152	Mr Jerovšek, I very much ask for the amendments to Article 16. We're talking about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u153	Yes, I'm talking about the content of the amendment. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u154	There's nothing to do with what you're saying right now, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u155	If Mr. Minister says that these are amendments to "war profiteers", I'll talk about it. He encouraged me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u156	I listened very carefully. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u157	And when he was talking about real development aid, in a way that the government is trying to do just for propaganda purposes, it's not real development aid. And on the 16th, the ministers said the same thing, no one gave up what happened in Posoča today. Since money went elsewhere because quality materials were used elsewhere, no one feels obliged to give up. Mr Minister Kopač is on the phone, he is not interested in what Members are saying, he behaves shamefully here in front of Members and he is not responsible to this people, he is not responsible to the people in Posoča, he is salting his mind and he is making fun of it. Not like this! I think people will miss this government! How, though, did she make a marriage that they would probably not believe in because after the elections, they would be completely different! And for this reason, I plead once again: let us accept these minimum amendments contained in these amendments, so that people can at least contribute to a humanitarian contribution, a donation, for example, and therefore have some additional tax relief to see a direct link between what they have contributed and what the country has forgiven them for this purpose. Also for these tax exemptions. I think that it should be extended to the period of validity of the law and that this way we may be able to maintain a position of employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please. He's not here? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Petten, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I explain Article 48a, so there will be no misinterpretation. It is interesting what we have heard about the fact that this is probably a good purpose, but it misses the goal. Now I'm gonna say it like that. Dear colleague! If Mr Kremjar's interpretation was correct, as Mr Minister has said, then, at the previous amendment we have proposed, the interpretation of Mr Butolen has been put on the head and is wrong. And because of that interpretation, let's say that our amendment fell. You'll probably have to agree who's right, but you'll be defending the same positions both at the one and the other amendments, and today and tomorrow and in 10 days, that the conditions will be the same, because, of course, because of the opposition's proposal, it's "no deck" and everyone's making up their cases, and just in case, it's another matter. But see if this really missed the goal of our amendment, and then we'll go a little by the numbers, because the number doesn't lie. 5 times 5 is 25 and can't be anything else philosophical. And I'm going to go back to this particular case of this tech office that's supposed to cost three billion tolars.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u160	Mr. Petan, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u161	I explain because I don't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u162	This has nothing to do with these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u163	You'll see that when I'm done, it's very important because I'm justifying it. I don't know anything but numbers. I can be philosophical, but it's not the same as if I'm basing it on numbers. And that's why I'm going to base my numbers because I hope you'll believe me here. Well, if you don't believe the numbers, then that's your problem. [[...]] Then this is a priori, what we're saying all the time and you're with it, thank you so much for admitting, because we're proposing, you don't agree with it. Look, if this case has hit a target or missed it. If it cost three billion tolars, and if we're counting on those who were employed or employed there, they had one million gross wages. That means, and if we divide it by twelve more a year and five more, because it was five years, that means that every month there were 50 people working there who had one million wages. But if we say it differently, they only had 500 thousand SITs, which means that there were 100 employees every day for five years. Now I ask, did this not miss the goal, or did it hit the goal? If our amendment has missed its goal. Then what is this? What do we call it? Is that even out of the question? It's not. But to return to what Mrs Kolareva said on this proposal that such general solutions, a discount or a postponement, are not right. On the contrary, I say that these solutions are the right ones, but not the administrative ones when an official, it doesn't matter where, whether I have the right or the right eyes, that I can get help, that I can get a discount, that I can be forgiven, or that which applies to everything that makes the market. I think it's better that he does the market. And to prove that, and I will say that again, of course, you hesitate to let some bureaucrats decide who is entitled to that help. If that were not the case, then in today’s Finances, it would not have been a large title when bureaucrats gave aid to someone. And that's exactly what we're advocating, that this is true for everyone and that no bureaucrat needs to know whether I have enough blue pigment in my eyes and that's why I deserve help or not. Now tell me what is more bureaucratic, what is more lifelike, and what is better for development! Certainly what the market does, which is common. And on that basis, I'm also asking you who is sponsoring the "war profiteers" then. Certainly not our amendment! For such things, when bureaucrats decide, there is a greater possibility that this can always happen, not that I say, but that there is a possibility. And our amendment prevents that. It also prevents because it would be the same for everyone to be the same on the market, and all economic operators would be the same on the market, not bureaucratic. Thank you very much. And that is why, of course, I will support this amendment of the 48th.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Before I give my word for the replica to Mr. Butolen. It is not my right to direct the debate, but, a while ago, we passed a tax law on the income of legal persons, an amendment which was then exactly the same content said that regionally lagged areas, it is said, companies that would carry out an activity there are exempt from a certain period of payment of taxes. On 1 May 2004, we entered the single economic space of the European Union, the directive is clear, it is not possible to break, neither for the purpose of coherent regional development, nor for the damage caused by the earthquake, because of the illegal state aid in these areas. We will have to adopt this rule because we are members of the European Union. It is so true that it is right that we agree on some of the professional arguments that we have adopted by entering the European Union. It doesn't matter, it's illegal state aid to businesses in this way. The Directive is very clear on this. Mr. Butolen wanted to replicate Mr. Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u165	I don't know who missed the goals, maybe it's a community funding law, but I sure as hell don't. This is clear that according to the number of residents who have permanent residence in a particular municipality, calculation of the appropriate consumption is considered, and that is definitely a fact, so the marital matter speaks. I think that even my colleague Kremjar and I have invested, and no matter where this natural person works, no matter where I work in Ljubljana, my income goes to my congregation. I think Mr Kremjar was speaking exactly the same with the legal ones - I was talking about natural persons - persons; where the company has its seat, and there because it creates profits probably goes there, but I didn't say anything about it, so I'm not going to replicate it now. However, I think that we spoke the same way that we did not speak differently and that we are not co-ordinated, but that the legislation is harmonised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u167	To begin with what you said, Madam President. Tax policy is in the national space. If you are not convinced by others, read the law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u168	State aid, Mr Janša, we are talking about state aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u169	We're not talking about state aid here if you've read our amendment, but we're talking about tax exemptions. This is a fiscal policy which, in national competence and here, the Slovenian Parliament can fully adopt such an amendment or a different one in relation to European directives, this has nothing to do with state aid, which is a stimulating development measure known to many European countries. This is not a direct spillover of funds from the budget through some bureaucratic institutions, but it is a developmental stimulus that is perfectly normal and is intended to strengthen economic activity in this demographic and also earthquake-prone area. Without economic growth, there is no prosperity and there is no progress and that is the basis of everything. We regret that those government representatives who are here today have not yet taken these alphabets. Perhaps it would be good for Mr Lakhovnik to remain, who probably understands that. In short, a completely normal measure is proposed, in line with European practice, which follows the objectives of this law, which are double, one is the earthquake reconstruction of buildings, and the other is development aid in Posoča. And here we have heard several times now that this has nothing to do with the renovation of buildings, maybe it doesn't, but the law, which you gave in 1998, has a greater ambition. And I must say that it is very difficult for us to tolerate this arrogance of the Minister for the Environment and the freedom that, on every proposal, responds to every amendment here, as if we are total "stupids" who otherwise may have a good purpose, but we have no idea about things and we are proposing some shit. If it's a matter of concern, then I'm sorry, you have a government that has, I don't know, 20,000 government officials, well-paid, and let's just put it in such a form that it's "drink water" if it's not good. But here is only aprioral rejection, the same was the case with the previous amendment, when we clearly proved that the picture is not black and white, and we said we were ready to take other solutions - there were no other solutions, there was a mockery of this proposal and finally a vote against it. But the problem remained unresolved. And about 60% of the facilities in this way will not experience any solution. Instead of getting answers to some questions, we're going to experience arrogance here by the government. Instead of teaching how speculators here will exploit this amendment, if it is accepted, we would rather hear from Mr Copac the answers to the questions we have asked several times. I mean, this clearly states in this amendment that these companies are exempt from the tax, from the tax on the income of legal persons created in the area of these municipalities. The last tax officer may prescribe rules on the basis of which this can be calculated if it does not already exist. Unless, of course, after the last review of the Court of Auditors in the tax administration, there was nothing to be done about it when the Court of Auditors concluded that they could not give their opinion at all because eating was so catastrophic. Such a tax administration is likely to have difficulties implementing such an amendment. However, if the situation is rectified, they will already be able to determine the tax or tax exemption from the activity taking place in the territory of one congregation. In any case, we can adopt another act under the law if the present act is not sufficient. In short, it is a matter of careless excuses, instead of looking for a better solution if something is wrong, to be sufficient for a purpose that is probably perfectly clear here. Instead of this arrogance of Mr Kopač, however, we would expect him to respond, why exactly did Mr Beguš and the private company Project from Nova Gorica receive a concession from the state technical office? How much money did you spend on a pianist agency to tell the Slovenian public that you treated the earthquake well? How many houses or weekends have been built by those working in the state technical office at this time, which is an earthquake repair, and where is this location? What does this petition, now signed by hundreds of people in Posač, say about this practice? Answer that, instead of selling arrogance!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Madam Secretary of State. Here you go, Mrs. Kolar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. I will try to explain briefly because Mr Janša is wrong about the European directives in the regulation of direct duties. Unfortunately or fortunately, however we take or understand, we have three that determine the taxation of the income of legal persons or, if you want, the so-called "corporate tax" and we have one that was adopted last June, which provides for the so-called interest directive, which provides for the taxation of interest. These are the three, four directives that Slovenia has to incorporate into its recently adopted tax legislation and are also in force, except for interest, where certain conditions still have to be met. Now, if I focus on these three directives that apply to corporate taxation. This is a so-called directive, a mother-daughter who gives a special status of non-involvement in the taxation of dividends and similar incomes where certain conditions such as ownership of more than 25% are met, that ownership is at least 24 months and that the payer and the recipient of these dividends is in a country so-called 'off Shore' or where the rate of corporate income tax is less than 12.5%. All of this is incorporated into a law where this part is already being used, as you know, by entering the EU; hence, from 1 May. This part is binding. The same is true of the directive which provides for transfers of mergers, connections, such certifications and all these possible transfers of activities, where they also have a special status and exemption from so-called double taxation, given that we are on the single market. It is also a directive relating to interest and licensing, the so-called ‘royalties’ and the undertaking, and where the so-called tax withdrawal is collected, where payments are made, whether in licensing or interest. We also have the so-called "count of conduct" or the code of entrepreneurship, which very precisely defines what this code of some right competitive behavior is. At the same time, we have taken up this code of entrepreneurship by undertaking under the Directives taken over, of course, where this proposal of this amendment would be treated as a harmful tax practice. Let me mention that we have had very large discussions and negotiations already when we join the EU, if you will recall our current profit tax law, where there has also been a certain exemption for the first three years of business in the newly established companies. And I can guarantee you that when such an amendment is adopted sooner or later, when it is informed and sent a notice, it follows the legislation, it breaks this "count of conduct", of course then follow procedures, processes. But there's something else I'd like to point out. With such an amendment, we would also establish unfair competition only within Slovenia. Imagine one yoghurt or cheese producer who would have, I don't know, a seat in one of these three municipalities and would be exempt from paying this tax now or for a certain year - someone else, say, on the Styrian or Premural end; what elements of the calculation of their own price would be produced by yogurt, say, in Styria, or one that could have only a fictitious table with its seat in Kobarid, but appear with yogurt and price at the same price, let's say, if I take a narrower, only Slovenian market. This is a tax measure which causes unfair competition solely because of the tax measure. And that's unacceptable. If we forget all these European rules, this is unacceptable also because of our domestic economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Stormfly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u173	Thank you very much. From the point of view of regional development, tax exemption. While regional policies know these options, the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia - which this Parliament also addressed - and later the strategy for the regional development of Slovenia relies on direct regional incentives. So, on the other side, which is more transparent, more transparent and then easier to implement in practice. Last but not least, we have already known and had and had a lot of problems with such an arrangement in the past in regional policy. Otherwise, in this bill, the government has foreseen 2 billion 450 million Slovenian tolls of direct incentives, which are all designed to help businesses, either that municipalities build infrastructure to attract businesses, or that these are direct incentives for initial investments to businesses, or that they are incentives for the development of human resources - back in businesses. And this development aid is that answer or that other side that solves the same problems in the same way as this regional policy measure, which otherwise looks very inviting, is probably difficult and difficult to control.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Janša asked me a few questions. Some of them are answered in an earthquake recovery report accessible to all Members, received every year by the government, sent to Parliament, but never addressed. There are reports of an earthquake recovery on the facility exactly, there are objects with house numbers, all of this is accessible to you, but if someone doesn't dig into these papers, then he likes to say that there was something mysterious going on. But you asked two more questions, which are not answered in these reports, because there can be none, because in fact the questions were more rhetorical. You asked who chose Nova Gorica as concessionaire? I answer to you - no one. Project Nova Gorica is not a concessionaire. The contractor of the earthquake repair or the organizer of the state technical office is a material and construction research institute. We have a contract with them, and then they hired subcontractors, including Project Nova Gorica. And the answer to the second question you asked. You said how many people who worked either in or with the state technical office - I'm not good, I don't remember the question. You asked me how many of them you put up - I understood some weekends or something. I've never heard of anyone, and my answer is, "No one." I understand, however, that the question was rhetorical in one way or another, as if I were to ask you now how much of the promised payments you have received from a company that wants such an unlawful form of State aid as is contained in your amendment proposal. Certainly nothing, but the question would be as rhetorical as it was yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u176	Thank you very much. You want to replicate, Mr. Janša, otherwise Mr. For Discussion. [[...]] Look, I'm writing you down as you speak. Mr Jerovšek is next, then Mr Petan and Mr Janša. Mr Jerovšek, but we're still at the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u177	Look, this rudeness of Mr Minister and Mrs Kolarova is only getting worse. And also, Madam Vice-President, you have taught us what is not possible in Europe. Ours, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u178	Mr Jerovšek, it is not correct [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u179	Yeah, you could talk, but I can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u180	It is not right to say that someone is rude to say the opposite of the facts in force in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u181	Facts, yes. You're the one who taught us the facts! Today, practice has already shown that our negotiators in Europe have negotiated poorly, that our public have interpreted certain things that are moving, and now we see that other countries have argued significantly better. In the event of an earthquake, there are certainly many derogations, reliefs, and all that. And I am increasingly in agreement, and I am convinced that it is the correct address in today's Finances: "Renewing the Soot was a dirty business". Everything that you're doing here, it seems to me, wants to go to the idea that after the earthquake on 12 July there will be a dirty business and that financial effects or wealth will go to some, but those who really need financial assistance, I don't know what they will be naked and barefoot. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u182	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u183	Yes, I must say, some very simple financial and tax incentives are very problematic. I am not saying that everything is 100% accurate, from a financial point of view, correctly recorded, but I have not heard in the performances of both Mr Minister and Mrs Kolarje's no suggestion on how to do this. However, we come from some positive experience and the intention of making a positive move. So that this dirty business doesn't go any further than the six years that some of this state-owned tech office have been aging. Mrs Kolarev does not teach us that it is unacceptable, as you suggest. And I say, Mrs Kolareva, the financial solutions you are preparing when you have withdrawn Mrs Nadi Klemenčič are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u184	Mr Jerovšek, now I will slowly take away your word, because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u185	Indeed, what has now turned out to be a government coalition is totally unacceptable what has been done there. But you've been teaching us, as if it's just for the sake of the Slovenians and I don't know who. We don't get irritated that way. I think it's for good purposes, because we're also in the previous earthquake, today it's come true that everything we've talked about has been right. I firmly believe that almost 100% of what we are going to talk about today will also show in the future that we were right, but some want to take these dirty jobs forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I do not agree with some of the allegations I have heard from government representatives because I am simply not going together, or I have the wrong data, or I am being misled through everything. The talk was about tax burden directives - something was said like that, because it doesn't matter, we know what it is. One of these three directives has been listed. If this is so uniform or should it be uniform in Europe, why do we have one of Slovenia's largest wages, but why don't the other countries in the European Union have such a big benefit or vice versa: why don't we have a smaller one? You were also talking about the code of entrepreneurship. What does that mean, let's say, where they have half the lower benefits -- I'm not saying it's good, let's just leave it. Or in those countries, for example, in Ireland, Slovakia, where there are substantially smaller benefits, is there unfair competition against us or do we have unfairly against them because we have twice as many benefits? There's something wrong here! I simply did not understand what you were trying to say to me or so enthusiastically defend these views of the European Directive that exist, but also give free hands to countries in certain areas. Some things must be shared and others left to the countries. And if that's it, then I don't know why the different benefits are, the different tax burdens. Now we're going to this disloyal competition you've presented nicely. But I'm asking you, what about the 150 billion taxes that have not been collected, some companies don't pay at all? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u188	Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u189	I heard it here today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u190	Mrs Kolareva was simply trying to explain the content of the directives of the European Union and the concept of a single economic space and the limitations that we have for that reason and are not correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u191	See why there are 150 billion unpaid taxes in Slovenia? Some don't pay them at all, others don't pay them - is that then loyal competition? The one who doesn't pay taxes, I can list some companies! It was like a strictly protected state secret and it was not a serious offense when these companies were published. That's one. That I wouldn't hold back because I could say a lot more. Let's move on. I do not understand why there is so much concern about what the European Union will say. He can still say - and he can tell us something; but what, we'll have to fix it! I do not understand why this European Union is more valuable, more "hard" than it is in Slovenia. Aren't you worried about what they'll say in Slovenia? If at least half as much concern for entities in Slovenia as for what they will say in the European Union, then it would probably be different in Slovenia. At least that would be the concern for Slovenian economic operators. And don't you want to know what people will say in Slovenia. On the other hand, I could ask you if you could be a little rude, maybe not, or are you in the European Union government or in the Slovenian government? And then whose interests should you represent? Take this as well-meaning. I said it might be rude, but it's not, I don't take it. Maybe; but, dear colleagues, when I went to my first job, the director asked me first: "Do you know where you get your salary? Then you will represent our positions." [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u192	I'm asking for peace! Mr. Petan, if you don't return to the amendment, I'll take your word for it! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u193	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will, of course, support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u194	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u195	It's obvious there's a brain on the government's side. Therefore, we are discussing late at night things that should already be proposed in the basic text. However, it is not for the government to go to law after just one week of not having it, but then to prepare the local community something and the opposition and then to the nose of the meeting the government is in the evening and in the morning the law is in Parliament. So - not now. As far as this proposal is concerned, Mrs Kolareva, the European Interests Directive has nothing to do with this; the European Direct State Aid Directive has nothing to do with what we propose. The Member States of the European Union have completely different tax systems, completely different tax systems. Yesterday your boss, Mr. Maramor, sat at a press conference with the Estonian finance minister, where the Estonian finance minister announced that in a few years Estonia would reduce the profit tax by 6%, where he said Estonia had abolished the profit reinvestment tax and so on. In short, there are completely different tax systems in the European Union! Do not tell me that Slovenia cannot accept this and that it will encounter any reaction in the European Union! Please tell me that you are not up for this, not waving here with the European Union, which has nothing to do with this, really has nothing to do with this. Mr. Digger said something, something's gone. We'll give him another month. The proposal put forward by Mr Tanko on his mother's working body for the government to prepare a report on the earthquake recovery in the 1930s was taken seriously. Mr Kopač said earlier that the government will prepare this every year, in short, it will probably not be such a problem that it will accelerate a little now because you are always so up-to-date and it will be done in 30 days. If you vote on Mr Kopač's proposal to do so by 30 September, then we will write a report on the earthquake recovery. Perhaps we will wrap it up in interpolation against Mr Kopač, call an extraordinary meeting and we will certainly consider this in November. I suggest that we take this decision together on our own, so that the government prepares a report so that the opposition does not have to do this service.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u197	First of all, when we talk about these tax exemptions, I could say briefly once again; the exemption from corporate income tax in a particular area within the country is unlawful State aid. If you think you will ever sit in the government and ever participate in the European Union as representatives of Slovenia, you will have to learn the rules of the European Union and have to respect them. That's what we decided to do. Of course, in the whole of Slovenia, we can exempt the income tax of legal persons to everyone, this is possible, we can reduce it, it is also possible, but I do not know where to finance the budget. However, we must not do this in the form of individual exceptions in a particular area. As for the earthquake recovery or the earthquake recovery report, I can send you a report tomorrow. It is not a problem because we have one or the other, or the next day or in a few days, that is no problem. Although Parliament does not take decisions, the Infrastructure Committee has adopted a decision, and invited us to do so by the end of September. And we intend to do so, or it would be appropriate if we were to take a serious analysis of the earthquake recovery once before when we write and send these reports, but there was never any response.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I think we can close the debate. Can I? I invite Members and Members to the Chamber, where we will vote on the five amendments. Three of these are in the amendment review, and two are on a special paper sheet. I think we've had enough of this. We will first vote in the review of the amendments under order number 1 to Article 16. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? I think we've had enough in the hall. Secondly, we will vote on the amendment under order number 1 of the review to Article 16. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 14 votes against 33. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 of the review. The proposer is the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 13 votes against 33. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are now going from a review to a special paper sheet, where the two amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group are to Article 16. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, in favour of 14 votes against 32. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And a second amendment to the same motions. We're voting. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 13 votes against 33. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We return to the amendment review and vote on the amendment under order number 4 of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 12 votes against 34. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment would not have been accepted. We have therefore concluded our second reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u199	Madam President. Another amendment to Article 17 has been tabled. It's multiplying. I'll say it orally.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-07-22-SDZ3-Izredna-49.ana.u200	Mr Drobnič, the technical and technical services remind us that you have incorrectly tabled an amendment to Article 17, which was not open to the home labour body, has not been adopted and cannot be amended in plenary session. Mr. Drobnič, you can't, it's not in accordance with the rules of procedure. We know exactly that only an amendment can be tabled at the plenary session to the article on which the mother's working body has adopted the amendment. Article 17 was not opened on the parent’s working body. It is closed and, of course, in plenary it would be completely contrary to the rules of procedure we have if we tabled an amendment. So, we have concluded the debate and decision-making on articles and amendments. I note that the amendments to Articles 1 and 3 were adopted in the second reading. I ask qualified candidates whether they might wish to make an amendment to these two articles in the third reading? No, we are going to vote on the bill as a whole. Neither the Government of the Republic of Slovenia nor the Legal and Legislative Service have informed me that because of the two amendments adopted, the law might be inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. I conclude an extraordinary session of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members of Parliament and all those who go on summer holidays! Have a nice vacation and all the best. Thank you so much for your cooperation and good night.
