ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franz Kangler, mag. Janez Kramberger, Yuri Malovra, Alojz Peterle, Maria Possonec, Franci Rokavec and Jaša Zlobec Lukič. Before we move on to the 7th item of the agenda, I will allow myself to inform Members and Members of Parliament. Today, a text has been published in the Slovenian News, which clearly discredits my person. I participated in the humanitarian run in Radenci, along with Ferri Horvato and Jakič, and I inform you that I did not avoid paying a humanitarian contribution, as the newspapers say, but I contributed 10,000 tolars. [[I have a certificate here.]] . I'm doing this because you can't get objective information from the media. Thank you. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW ON THE FIRST ROOM COMPOSITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REFORMING OF THE IMPLEMENTED INVESTIGATION SOCIETY, PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representatives of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Sibyl Svilan, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! News of the Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the conversion of authorised investment companies [[PID]] means the technical supplement to the existing law, which was adopted in 1999 and supplemented in 2002. This law created the first pension fund as a specific form of pension fund managed by a capital company. This year, the first pension fund, as the first of the supplementary pension funds, will begin to pay pension pensions. The applicable law gives insured persons the right to a monthly pension when fulfilling legal conditions. However, the existing structure of the first pension fund insurers shows that insured persons have a relatively small number of policy points in the structure, resulting in a small amount of monthly pension. Complementing Article 32 or this amendment, in the sense of making a single payment or payment of an annual pensioner to insured persons with a smaller number of policy points, the fund and its manager will make it possible to operate more rationally. In fact, the payment of monthly rents would in all cases be a high cost. Notwithstanding the above, insurance undertakings are also allowed to opt for a monthly pension. Due to the specific transformation of the first pension fund created under the law, there is also a need to establish a legal basis by which the manager of the first pension fund is given access to certain data in the central register of the population, in cases where such data cannot be obtained directly from the insurers, but are essential for the calculation and payment of pensions. This is also a novelty in this novel. In addition to Article 21, the law regulates the creation of the First Pension Fund’s cover fund and complements it in this Article by setting the legal deadline of five years in which the manager must align the investments of the First Pension Fund with the provisions of the Insurance Act. These changes, which I briefly outlined and took, are essentially those that allow this fund or the payments from these funds to be even more rational and appropriate. The amendments and additions to the law have no financial implications for the state budget and have been coordinated with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Home Affairs and, of course, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In accordance with the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the first pension fund and the transformation of authorised investment companies. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask Mr Ciril Puck, President, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! That bill was considered by the Committee at one of its last meetings. In this regard, in the light of the legislative and legal opinion, we have drawn up an amendment addressing the issue of the creation of a cover fund under one of the paragraphs and aligning the investments of the first pension fund with the insurance law. I therefore propose that, in accordance with what I have said and what has already been said, the State Assembly should support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr Ivan Kebric, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! I would like to invite you to recall the debate that we had at the time on 24.10.2002 when we discussed the amendment of the law in order to raise the quota of 10,000 pension bonuses to 30,000 and when we had quite a lively time to say no to the gallant debate on this proposal. Today there is a change of law before us, which we welcome in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, DeSUS, and will, of course, vote in favour of this change. What we had predicted at the time was that those holders of fewer pension vouchers, most of them were not so wealthy that I did not say rich that they could collect the pension vouchers and at the time of 31.12. 2002, when the pension vouchers turned into the spot system for the first pension fund. The fact is that in this proposal now happens what we predicted at the time will be the owners of the smaller number of vouchers which were automatically modified on 31.12.2002. Therefore, they now have with or to the law as it is valid - remember then that for those who have less than five years to work, jobs are said to have been 56 years old at the time, so that after five years or others by fulfilling their age, without regard to the fact that the age was the same for women and men at the time, 61 years when they could begin to benefit from this change in pension benefits, let us leave them aside from how some of them came. One of them was first deprived of wages by the legal route, then when they sued the country, if I may recall, they received these pension vouchers, which were then either alone or legally amended by the law. It is true that at that time we stood up, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, for those who have been deprived of certain rights in one way or another, are justified. On the other hand, we have prevented those speculators who bought cheap vouchers from having the right to say, not high, but rather significant monthly rents, but with a larger number of vouchers, although limited to 30,000. This law we advocate for a simple reason that now those who have had fewer modified vouchers can now, because the law says that death terminates the payment of the rent, which is, of course, completely logical and, of course, not transferable. That is why we advocate, I repeat, this change that those who would have their monthly rent, because they do not know how long they will enjoy it, because death does not, as Prešeren says, bring it up in one piece. On the other hand, the capital company will, of course, reduce management costs if they choose to pay one-off. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Leopold Grošelj will present the position of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u8	Mr President! Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! It is true that the first pension fund was set up as a specific form of the pension fund and that the insurers were then also registered on the basis of data on holders of service certificates and holders of shares of authorised investment companies which decided to replace. However, the data was outdated and incomplete when they were entered. We therefore consider it right to give the legal basis to the Capital Society d.d. by supplementing Article 32 of the First Pension Fund Act and reshaping the authorised investment companies. However, access to certain data in the Central Population Register, in cases where such data cannot be obtained directly from insurers, is essential for the calculation and payment of pensions. It is also the operation of the first pension fund, as the fund, which has been created, under specific legal conditions, that the Act on the First Pension Fund and the conversion of authorised investment companies has been issued, on the basis of which the Rules on the More Detailed Property Properties of the First Pension Fund have also been issued, and on more detailed rules for the dispersion and harmonisation of such investments, the creation of the Covert Fund has specifically regulated. However, in order to remove doubts and to avoid ambiguity, it is also proposed to supplement Article 31 of the said novel, which also clearly states that the creation of the first pension fund is also possible through the transfer of funds in the form of investments. In this regard, of course, we also consider that, in Article 1 which I have talked about with addition, and which also governs the First Pension Fund’s Critical Fund and which has been regulated so far in that Regulation, we consider that this dispersion of these investments and their consistency, but, given their content, it makes sense that this is also regulated by law. The objectives and principles and the main solutions set out in the law, which I will not list again, are also acceptable to the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats and we will fully support and vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Janez Drobnič, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and others! This amendment of the law essentially regulates the payment of the 1992 election gonad of the Drnovška government when it promised citizens something that was not then realized; it has been issued some sort of de facto coverage vouchers and this obligation to some citizens remains and is being suppressed into the pension insurance fund. So we can say that it is another government skeleton that needs to be hidden from the people or given a loving expression. We have solved this problem before the time, the obligation to pay part of the salaries of last year's civil servants. This is how the pension fund becomes some sort of robbery of unfulfilled government promises and the electoral beauty of the Drnovskov and Robb's governments. In fact, there is a budget deficit that has never been shown, and the fact is that these commitments - including those from last August and those from 1992 - have not yet been fulfilled by the government, so it remains open. A new deadline for the budget deficit may need to be introduced. In addition to the sympathetic compensatory deficit created by the accounting installations, it may now be appropriate to introduce an electoral implementation budget deficit. The Pension Insurance Fund has the function of providing additional pensions for future pensioners, but it is clear to everyone that our demographic and economic image is not good. It is therefore necessary to introduce additional forms of insurance in the case of age. The Fund was established with the aim of ensuring the coverage and fulfilment of the insurance obligations of the supplementary pension insurance policy, the premium of which was provided by the replacement of pension vouchers for the insurance policy points. The creation of a cover fund could be regulated without amending this law; this could be done by existing legislation. This amendment also provides for the creation of a first-retirement fund through the transfer of funds in the form of investments. The investments of the first pension fund and their structure are not known, so the manual and liquidity are properly coordinated, so say the capital fund and the government. They add that the investment structure would be aligned with the provisions of the law governing insurance within five years. This kind of sounds like how well the government cares for our welfare and security. In fact, the government does not ensure the appropriateness of the insurance of these investments over a five-year period and therefore the uncertainty of the cover fund remains a risk, as this is not ensured during this transitional period; only after the expiry of a five-year period is this principle of insurance and coverage, as is the case with insurance undertakings or their portfolios. Until then, citizens can only hope and pray to God that nothing bad happens. It is important for citizens that supplementary pension insurance is as special, separate from the reserve fund of compulsory pension insurance and that it remains intact by additional insurance, as additional insurance is a personal decision, a private matter of individuals. The issue remains the power of the capital company to have free access to certain data from the central population register. More and more institutions with laws are gaining free access to the central registry. Therefore, in the end, we need to ask ourselves why such protection of the central registry, when this data is distributed to many institutions and the possibility of protecting personal data is much less. Then why are we adopting a data protection law? Thus, the changes also relate to how the rents will be paid up to 2000 points in one amount, between 2000 and 5000 points in the form of an annual rent and above, i.e. 10000 points gradually, as is the case [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If the insurer fails to respond within 15 days, it shall be executed in accordance with the law. We think it should be the other way around. That the one who consents, the one who declares that he wants to be paid in such a way, would be subject to this procedure, this change. Otherwise, it should remain the way in which the rent is paid in order to pay monthly rents on a continuous basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Blaž Kavčič, Liberal Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u12	Mr Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law brings in particular some rationalisation that could be done by the market if the proposal to increase the maximum amount of vouchers in the possession of one natural person was raised. Well, since it wasn't, it's just that this rationalisation needs to be done in the way that it's now being proposed here. This is a rationalisation of the liability of the first pension fund, which means that this bill attempts to resolve the problem of excessively dispersed liabilities, in a large number of cases even substantial amounts. Thus, the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the conversion of authorised investment companies set up the first pension fund as a specific form of pension fund operated by the Capital Company d.d. on its behalf and on behalf of the insured persons. The fund was set up to provide cover by fulfilling the insurance policy obligations of the supplementary pension insurance premium provided for in respect of the replacement of pension vouchers for the insurance policy points. In its assessment, the applicant stated that on 31 December 2003, 51 thousand 14 insured persons were included in the first pension fund and owned by 132 million 998 thousand 511 points. On 31 July this year, 11 000 186 insured persons will be entitled to pension benefits, 55% of whom have less than 2000 shelf points and 7% of whom have two to five thousand shelf points. And, of course, for all those insured who will begin to exercise this right, it is necessary, in accordance with the Insurance Act, to form a critical fund, i.e. to transfer assets from one form to another form. Based on actuarial calculations, it is estimated that approximately 37 per cent of the pension fund will be transferred in this transaction. Complementing the law will enable the transfer of funds in the form of investments, and the critical fund will have to comply immediately after transfer with the provisions on the investments of the covered fund as prescribed by the law governing insurance. Such a transfer will avoid transaction costs, reinvestment costs, the cost of splitting long-term deposit contracts with banks and the cost of falling, thus falling the price of non-market equity investments due to a less favourable moment of sale. In the current law, the capital company was provided to align the maturity of the first pension fund with the maturity of the claim and, with the new paragraph 5, the legal term of the first pension fund is now set for five years, and the capital company of the first pension fund must comply with the provisions on the investments of the covered fund as set out in the law governing insurance. The average number of insured persons owns a relatively low number of points, and this requires the payment of relatively low monthly rents to a larger number of insured persons. The proposed amendment will allow the manager to settle his policy rationally. Of course, the law also provides for the possibility of insurers insisting on the solution so far, which, of course, also clearly defines the bill. The updated insurance database provides the basis for the smooth payment of entitlements from the policies of the supplementary pension insurance of the first pension fund. The entry of data on primary pension holders was carried out on the basis of data on holders of service certificates and holders of authorised investment companies which have decided to replace, which were obsolete and incomplete at the time of their acquisition, and therefore these lists should of course be updated. In the light of the proposal proposed in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the bill's amendments. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, it is clear to us that the proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, for the first time, the technical law and for the second time, is an amendment to the previous law of 2002, in which it was already clear that this country was creating a deficit. She knew about him, but she pretends she doesn't know about him, and now she's saving him with the secret fund and the way she's proposing. Okay. The fact is that this is an amendment to a 2002 law that we, of course, have adopted or can look at the outcome of the vote. The fact is that this law is needed, especially the data we have already heard, is 55,000 of those who have less than 2,000 points, that for the first time is really a question of rationality, whether it is a single or an annual payment of pension pensions. Finally, we need to know that the proposal to do the same as in insurance is, on the one hand, rational in order not to duplicate the solution. In the Slovenian National Party, we point out once again that, as in many laws, we find that mistakes and possible superficiality, unreality, are being corrected in such a manner and in a similar way, I do not know what else is going on in the past. For when a law is passed, it is only to be adopted in harmony. The decision of the National Party is that we will not object to the proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the meeting's timetable today in the framework of the vote at 15.50, ten before the fourth hour. I hereby end this agenda item and thank the representatives of the government. We move on to the 8th item of the agenda, this is to consider the proposal of the law to supplement the law - the moment, I say goodbye, at 10.40 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u16	We're moving to 8. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law on the amendments to the law on state administration, a summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u17	Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is a minor amendment to the State Administration Act, which is linked to the reorganisation of government services or the abolition of certain government offices. As jobs or areas have been transferred to ministries, the work area of the two ministries has had to be further complemented by the work area of the Ministry of Culture, which has so far been under the responsibility of the Slovenian Language Office, and by the Ministry of the Interior, which has been in the Office of Refugees so far, in the field of migration. These two changes are therefore linked to the reorganisation of government services. Then there is another addition, including a rather formal one, to establish a legal basis for the issue of European rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr Rudolf Petan, the Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At first glance, one feels that it is a routine matter. In the context of the reorganisation of the state administration or rationalisation, it is a matter of transferring government services, offices, ministries. However, careful and careful reading of this law reveals interesting interpretations, explanations of urgency, objectives and reasons for the adoption of this law. And if I go in good order to explain on behalf of the SDS what it meant. In point 1, in its assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the government stated: "The government services which the Government has decided to reshape have had a very small number of employees, which does not justify the status of the independent authority with all administrative and management powers or burdens. The abolition of these services as independent bodies and budgetary users will bring about rationalisation, a reduction in the number of budget users, the discontinuation of managerial activities, better use of resources..." and so on. Then this content continues: "The other problem of these services was in unclear political responsibility and lack of control. They have been subordinated to the Secretary-General of the Government, who cannot be politically responsible for the problem covered by these services. The transfer of their tasks to the ministries clearly lays down the political responsibility for the issue covered by them." So, first of all, I have to say on behalf of the SDS that we agree with the content quoted. At the same time, we can ask ourselves where we have been or where the government has been so far that it has not been aware of this. Only now did our eyes suddenly open. We have found that we have been irrational and also practically without sufficient responsibility from the individual government body. In the SDS, we keep reminding ourselves of the irrationalities, particularly with regard to the organisation and the ever-new and new bodies that we continue to establish and almost there is no law that does not define any new body. I'd like to mention only two laws that are currently in force. This is the Road Traffic Safety Act and the Higher Education Act, which we will be considering this week. Despite the resounding words about the irrationality of this law currently under consideration and the new law on higher education, we are still setting up agencies that are dealt with by the two remaining laws. It would be interesting to hear something about rationality and responsibility, in which case the majority in Parliament insists once again on the old. We wanted to draw attention to different approaches during the same time period. In this context, it somehow sounds empty in the text below the explanation for the adoption of this law, which says: "As a government service, only those who carry out technical technical tasks for the government and those who provide professional support for the coordination power of the government centre, the president, the minister, etc. "In the SDS we support such thinking. It bothers us, however, that it is an application for daily needs; we can say that if there is, then the case is a saying that one swallow does not yet bring in the spring. However, in the SDS, we are pleased that the majority of parliament has listened to the opposition in this law at least in terms of rationalisation and accountability in government services. In the SDS, we will support this law with a strong desire that the words of the government as explained in this law remain visible and heard in the preparation of other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Zupan, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, representative of the government, colleague and colleague! In this mandate, we have adopted five important laws which constitute a reform of the Slovenian public administration, and one of them is the State Administration Act, which the government wishes to supplement for two reasons after a reduced procedure. For the first time, due to the reorganisation of government services in that part relating to the definition of the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture in the field of the Slovenian language and of the Ministry of the Interior in the field of migration and others for the enforcement of the European Union rules which need to be provided with a legal basis for their issuance. Yesterday we had a general discussion on the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian, and it was shown that special care was needed for the enforcement, development and promotion of Slovenian language, especially due to the sensitivity of this issue when Slovenia joined the European Union. In the reorganisation of government services, when the Slovenian language office was abolished, we opposed this in our parliamentary group in Novi Slovenija because we felt that such an important area could not be confined to one of the field tasks. In some ways, the government has found, or the government has only in some way, that there is a need to clearly place the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture in the field of Slovenian language, so it seeks to extend the work of the competent ministry in such a way as to make it clear that each time the Minister for Culture also has a responsibility for the issue of the Slovenian language. Will that be enough? The responsibility of the Minister of the Interior should also extend to the area of migration, as has already been said. The second set has been supplemented by Article 74, which, by amended text, is intended to provide a legal basis for the issue of sub-legislative rules or regulations for the enforcement of the rules of the European Union. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed addition to the Law on State Administration can contribute to greater efficiency in reorganising the state administration. However, we are afraid that he cannot replace, for example, the Slovenian language of importance that the Slovenian language office should have, especially at the time of becoming a member of the European Union, despite all the rationalisation it is intended to achieve. The question is how effective the coordination committee can be in this respect. We will not oppose the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Ms. Majda Shirca, Liberal Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The reasons for amending this law are very legal in nature and are clear. Like my predecessors or representatives of other parliamentary groups, I can see that we have recently found that an intervention in this law is necessary. That didn't seem necessary to the Ministry at the time, but now we have this marriage on the table. In fact, marriage or other solutions have long been open. The laws were wounded in this respect, but at the time such an intention was not advocated by the Ministry if the Slovenian Language Office was established by a decision of the Minister and because of the then Minister, and therefore does not need to change the legislation, we are now facing different conclusions. There's no reason not to support them. Perhaps we can only express doubts that such knowledge comes late. I think that the reference to the fact that the new organisation will bring about substantial rationalisation is not entirely appropriate. After all, it is the transfer of an office, of course, defined by other rules, at least as regards payment of salaries slightly different. However, there will only be a transfer of one body, one body into another body, into another organgram, but the activity will be maintained and it is right to be preserved, in short, to step where its place is, in fact, within the Ministry of Culture. The reduction of overheads, better use of resources and so on, I doubt that this will be because, after all, both in the Ministry of Culture and elsewhere, employees and those material supplements that are necessary for work are also necessary. And in this sense, we do not see any special differences. I think it is right that the Slovenian language office is stationed in the Ministry of Culture to take responsibility there. I caution, however, in line with yesterday's debate, that it is likely that this segment, which will be the successor of the Slovenian Language Office, will need other reinforcements in terms of the inspectorate's work, especially in terms of the solutions it offers, I suppose that once again the law on the Slovenian language will be adopted. And in this sense, this office or successor of the office will have meaningful competences. Of course we'll support this change. However, we can point out once again that we had warned about it more than a year ago and that it was not necessary for the Ministry at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, representatives of the government, Mr. Minister! We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the law on state administration. We are pleased to see in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law that the objectives of the reform of the Slovenian public administration are mainly in political neutrality, responsibility, transparency, efficiency and user-oriented public administration. The fact is that government services carry out technical and technical tasks for the government and provide professional support for the coordinating power of the government centre, and so is the case. The fact is that it is also right to clearly place responsibility for certain areas in the relevant ministries. It is also right that, due to a clear and unambiguous definition of competence, the Ministry of the Interior, for example, should be complemented by a description of the work areas in the field of migration, as in this case. It is also true that we have come to the realization that responsibilities and tasks related to the Slovenian language are precisely defined and that this responsibility - I say - is transferred to the Ministry of Culture. However, in this part, I would agree with my colleague Majda Shirca as a previous speaker that, of course, the question is whether it is right for the Office to withdraw and transfer tasks to the Ministry or not. However, if we take this as a technical task, as a reorganisation, as an organigram, as a compliance with the legislation that speaks about the organisation, the main objective is to keep the Slovenian language, to give it its valid language and to respect and take into account in all the aspects, contents and forms that we need. As the predecessor has said, many things can change in both financial and other areas. Once again, the point is and we expect it to be better or as good in this area as it would be if it were not worse. Of course, the Ministry of Culture assumes great responsibilities by the office to be terminated. It is also of course very important to say what I mentioned earlier, the Ministry of the Interior in the field of migration knows that these are now clear tasks, as are defined in the bill of law, to supplement the law on state administration. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not clearly oppose the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on State Administration, in particular for assessments and reasons and objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We have completed the representations of the positions of the groups of Members. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it was not possible to table amendments to the legislative text, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today in the framework of the vote at 15.50, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and thank the representatives of the Government for their participation in this item. But we'll pick it up at 11.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to 9. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE TRANSPORT LAW IN ROAD TRAVEL, INCLUDED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Five minutes, Mr. Velja Petrnell.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The proposed law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act contains three completed content sets. The amendments in the first set are related to the harmonisation of the applicable law with the European Union regulations on passenger transport. In this part, it is the release of a so-called special line transport that has so far prohibited the transport of certain categories of passengers, such as pupils or workers. Such legislation was for the protection of liners. Since such transport is permitted under the rules of the European Community and internal transport is also permitted in a Member State, i.e. cabotage, it is imperative to bring our law into line with this rule. This set could also include articles that specify more precisely the way in which the economic public service is introduced in the field of public line passenger transport. In this part, the changes relate mainly to the faster invitation to tender and the granting of concessions for the provision of public bus and coach services to passengers. The second set of amendments is linked to ensuring effective control of foreign carriers, mainly due to the loss of customs control at three national borders. More frequent internal controls have been established, coordinated by the Transport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the third set of amendments is related to the adoption of a new law on offences and to the related urgent harmonisation of the criminal provisions of the Road Transport Act with the Act on Offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Branko Janc, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u30	Thank you. At its 56th meeting, on 5 May, the Infrastructural Committee held a second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. On the basis of a proposal from the College, the law was examined following a reduced procedure. In addition to the representatives of the proposer, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, representatives of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also participated. The proposed law was given a written opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service. The law was also tabled by a fellow Member, Aloise Sok, and after discussion, the committee drafted 12 of its amendments and proposed to the National Assembly that it adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr. Franz Lenko, DeSUS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Secretary with co-worker, colleagues and fellow Members! Road transport could be widely discussed. Bus transport is often the subject of discussion on how to improve it. Who should implement it, how best to implement and organise regional transport services, price appropriateness and similar questions to people who are dependent on such transport, as well as to others, every day? We are well aware of the frequency of questions about the organisation, efficiency and prudence of public passenger transport, but today's discussion will not go in this direction, but changes to the law are necessary because of our membership in the European Union. In order to remove customs controls at all borders except at the border with the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to re-organise controls on foreign carriers. Following the example of neighbouring countries or Member States of the European Union, internal controls shall be carried out on the basis of a proposal for a law. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we agree with such a solution. The sanctions arising from the infringements are also appropriate to us. We also agree with the temporary regulation of the way concessions are granted, as we believe that this will be a successful way to protect domestic carriers. Otherwise, we are late for the adoption of the bill, as the first concessions should already be granted before 1 May 2004, i.e. before joining the European Union. The amendment to the law applies only to the provision of public line transport for workers and pupils. Also in the DeSUS Group, we wonder what the solutions to public passenger transport should be because there is no public line transport and they do not belong to certain types of passengers for whom public line transport is otherwise carried out. We should have adopted the bill yesterday. Since Slovenia's entry into the European Union, foreign carriers have been able to carry out public line transport in accordance with European Union rules, and domestic carriers are now in a subordinate position because of the existing legal ban, which prohibits the provision of special line transport for workers and students to work and to schools. The adoption of the law in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group seems necessary to balance the competitive position of all players in the market, so we will also support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik, Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the House of Respect! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the road transport law, even though this law is an attempt to harmonise our legislation with two European regulations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, when adopting the road transport law in 2001, we have already pointed out the specificity and inadequacy of the special transport arrangements, the specific line transport of passengers in inland transport, which, according to the proposaler, is intended to protect existing line carriers. At the time, the adopted and such arrangements were not consistent or different from those of the European Union and essentially protected the monopoly situation of existing liners, which unfortunately is reflected in practice in the breakdown of cross-border passenger transport in Slovenia. The 2001 legislation, which has been in force despite our opposition and which has prohibited and prevented and restricted competition in the field of transport of workers to work and students to school, has presented the most important systemic error that has led passenger transport in road transport in our country to a position that cannot and is not proud of the country and has demonstrated dramatically that only rare workers and students are driven by public line transport. For all other potential users, cross-border transport is too expensive and uninteresting, due to abandonment without the number of lines or lines. The carriers are always competing, who will carry out these transports on a smaller bus and on smaller routes. This begins and ends with those routes that are already sold out in the form of monthly tickets to students and to those of the few workers who are still on buses. The absence of cross-border connections and passenger transport is such that it is already a serious problem and is reflected as another one of our many regional specificities. In view of the latter, we have serious concerns and do not agree with the Government's intention to grant, without a call for tender, the first concessions for the execution of public line passenger transport for the next four years, to carriers carrying out these transports on the basis of registered timetables from the 2003/2004 transport year, or to carriers carrying them out. Such a purpose and such award of concessions, and such a way of regulating and granting concessions as provided for by this legislative amendment, only means to extend the protection of existing liners and also to continue to restrict competition, unacceptable restriction of competition in this area, which will consequently exacerbate the already unacceptable disadvantage in the field of line transport. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose the enforcement and enforcement of such practices in the future. It is simply a matter of restricting small transport operators with an ambition to carry out inland transport operations and, as a result, continuing such arrangements in the past and, consequently, for the next four years, cannot develop their activities and cannot contribute significantly to improving the situation in the field of passenger transport. Nevertheless, we agree with the need to reverse the control of foreign carriers, by enforcing internal controls by as many as three competent authorities, and we also agree with the harmonisation of the law on road transport with the adopted law on offences. Due to the foregoing and the continued practice of protecting existing liners, we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, despite the fact that it is a European law, regardless of the attempt to harmonise with the two European regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, United List, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u36	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. When considering the complementary proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, we would like to draw attention to the fact that the number of passenger vehicles is increasing from year to year in Slovenia and, on the other hand, the number of users of public transport means is steadily falling. Due to the lack of transport policy and the relevant systemic measures to promote the use of public means of transport, bus carriers are therefore in an extremely difficult situation. We have paid particular attention to this problem in the public presentation of the issue in the public line transport activities of road passengers organised by the Slovenian Chamber of Economics, within it the association of traffic and communications or the section for the public transport of passengers in line and free road transport. The findings are indeed of great concern and, of course, this law is urgently needed. It is right that this law should be dealt with before 1.5, before Slovenia enters the EU, but the solution or solutions contained in the amended bill are those which will allow for the granting of concessions for the carriage of passengers by line, or without a call for tender, this should apply until 2008. We believe that it is precisely because of the extremely difficult situation faced by the carriers that this is essential for them to be able to develop economic and organisational skills during this period, of course, and, of course, we believe that a more competitive market could then be established in the field of line public transport and, in particular, in relation to other foreign carriers. However, we are concerned somehow still with the fact that the financial consequences of this law are somehow not those that should be more reflected in the situation in line transport. In fact, it is a fact that we would need about 6 billion tolls of subsidies for line transport, i.e. prices, to subsidise liner transport prices, and thus somehow achieve a state in which it would be possible to harmonise the timetables, both the railway and, of course, bus carriers. With financial implications, we do not somehow find appropriate solutions or reallocation within the rail and bus systems, so we would also like to point out that this should not lead to deterioration of the situation in railways as well, but that these measures should, in particular, result in harmonised timetables and very precise redistribution of resources, but we do not think that there will be adequate solutions without additional funding for line bus subsidies. We also support the decision to allow the transport of workers and students by special line transport, which has not been possible so far, and this is also one of the important measures that equates the possibility already given in the rest of the European Union. Of course, we also support such a solution in our country, and let us hope that these measures, which are also envisaged for the control of licences and licences or of foreign carriers in our area, will be effective enough to avoid problems and, in particular, unfair competition or similar measures, which have also been pursued in this area. Thus, we believe that some of the solutions in this law are improving the situation, but we believe that much more attention will have to be paid to the future issue of public line transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u38	Mr President, representatives of the government. Fellow Members and Members! Indeed, this law could be adopted in such a form in 2001, when we adopted the law in the National Assembly, since the directives of the European Union, which are now being coordinated by this law, were adopted in 1992 and 1998. The government representative said that this was not done to protect domestic bus carriers, but, as we can see today, this protection is such that domestic bus carriers are more likely to fail every day. It is not possible to believe that such a transport policy as the government in our country will make something better. If it goes that way, of course, it can only get worse. Otherwise, we are now legislating some of the proposals that we have already initiated in the opposition. The current harmonisation allows for special line transport also for the transport of school children and workers. We discussed this very widely on the Infrastructure Committee. At the time, on the proposal of the New Slovenia Group of Members, we also adopted an amendment to Article 34 to this effect, so that these special line transports could also be carried out by passengers from those places where regular line transport is not organised. I myself proposed this because I see that in the municipality from which I come from, and even in the wider area of rural Slovenia, this is an extraordinary problem. You have this special line transport that drives our children to school, to high school or, say, even workers in a particular factory, but then you can't take a few people with this transport, who need to, for example, visit some public offices in the city or go to a doctor. And this decision was taken by the Infrastructure Committee, as we have proposed, also by the decision taken. Unfortunately, here today, I find that the ruling coalition has tabled an amendment with which this has been widely debated - and with which the government representative also agreed - the solution is once again proposed to be abolished. So if this is lifted, I now predict that the New Slovenia Group will not vote in favour of this law. Because once again there will be damage mainly to the rural population, which is running out of every possibility of bus connection Otherwise, I will talk more about this at the time of the amendment itself, but this argument you are making in the explanation of this amendment simply does not hold up. Now I would like to draw attention to this growing problem of Slovenian bus carriers. Look, the so-called strike was announced on May 17th. The government has been promising for two years to increase subsidies to Slovenian bus carriers, but nothing will happen. In 1992, bus carriers transported some 300 million passengers to Slovenia, only 50 million more last year, predicting that the situation would get worse this year. This, of course, makes the financial situation of these carriers worse, and at the same time the working capital used to carry out these public or bus services. Thus, the average age of buses in 1999 was 7 years, in 2000 9 years, and if this goes on, then we can conclude what buses we will be carrying in this country and what will then be the competitiveness of these bus carriers in 2008. Indeed, since 2002, the country has been subsidizing by km with 16.5 tolar bus transport. However, in all this, carriers are failing, economically failing and themselves at this point in time demand that this subsidy be, if I am properly informed, about 83 tolars, for which we would need approximately 4.5 billion money per year in the budget. So, I would like to warn you, however, the government will have to solve this problem. If we do not adopt a proper transport policy, the policy that will shift the users of these services to public bus transport is, of course, unnecessary. Therefore, it is imperative to adopt a transport policy which will go this way, so that such a subsidy will also apply to bus transport. Thank you very much. Once again, if these amendments or, above all, Amendment No 2, are adopted, we will not support this law in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Branko Janc, Liberal Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The issue of road transport, of course, goes beyond the bill itself, which is proposed here. We will, of course, support this law in our parliamentary group. Therefore, the solutions governing both the public line transport of passengers and the control of foreign carriers by abolishing the customs service at border crossings are, of course, appropriate. The warnings given here are in place and the Infrastructure Committee also had a specific agenda item where it discussed the issue mainly of companies providing public and road transport services to passengers. In this regard, a number of decisions were adopted and binding decisions were also adopted by the Committee, which impose certain measures on the Ministry of Transport or the Government to facilitate the transport of passengers and to carry out this activity in general. Another issue is the conclusion that the government is preparing a transport policy strategy. I think that this is already being prepared in the document, so that the committee at one of the next meetings should discuss the transport strategy of transport policy. This question, of course, that Slovenia has never made clear what transport policy it is intended to lead, also reflects this issue, which was very seriously raised by fellow Members from other parliamentary groups. We also draw attention to these issues, and, of course, we expect to address this issue by the end of the term of office of this National Assembly. This legal matter, as I said before, will be supported by our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Ms Sonja Areh Lavrič is also on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! The current road transport law was adopted in 2001. With the amendment of the law, the proposer wants in particular to harmonise the applicable law with European legislation in the field of passenger transport. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have already pointed out shortcomings in the first reading of the law in force at the meeting of the National Assembly and in certain segments also to non-compliance with EU directives, but despite numerous amendments, criticisms and comments in 2001. Today, we have the same topic before us in dealing with each other again, which must be accepted by Slovenia's entry into the EU. One of the specific amendments to the law is, in our opinion, a provision that newly excludes public transport in urban transport and the transport of school-bound children from the public and line transport system and means the harmonisation of the law with the law on local self-government. Under the provisions of the current law, they are also concerned about the competence of local communities, which they also finance. The fact is that the public services are also financed by the State and thus certain carriers were paid for transport both by municipalities and subsidies per kilometer by the State. Following Slovenia's entry into the EU, the law in force also reduces competitiveness and puts Slovenian carriers in a subordinate position, as it prohibits them as a special line transport to carry out transporters for work, students and schools, which today represent the majority of passengers using line transport. In view of the fact that EU law operates through specific line transports, the transport of workers and students, which would therefore mean that carriers from EU countries could carry out these transports, but not from Slovenia, we believe in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group that the amendment of the law should be adopted. In the opinion of the parliamentary group, an important provision of the proposed law on the award of concessions for the provision of public line passenger transport, which is awarded under the current regime on the basis of a public tender, which means a few months' duration of the procedure. It is right to protect existing liners by means of a novelty, which provides that the first concessions are awarded without an invitation to tender to carriers already engaged in line transport for lines from the 2003/2004 transport year. We will not oppose the proposed law in the National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 18.5.2004. This is the letter on which we have an amendment to Article 2 of the two amendments and Article 4 of the one amendment. So, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy and Members' Groups, the United List and DeSUS. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Auschwitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I must inform the honourable assembly that the two amendments to Article 2 have been tabled, unfortunately, to an unloving error, because only one amendment was meant. Thus it has happened that we now have two amendments before us, and the first is completely irrelevant, because the first paragraph in this amendment is exactly the same as the first paragraph of the amended bill. The second paragraph, however, is in fact slightly changing, in that due to the changed timetables, it is not always necessary to modify the concession contract, but only to align the concession contract with the new timetable. So I propose that, when we continue to vote, we find that the first amendment to the first paragraph of Article 2 is irrelevant, because the text is exactly the same as the amended proposal. It was considered that both, first and second, would be tabled as one amendment amending the text of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u45	Thank you very much. It is said that the amendment to Article 2 under order number 1 is irrelevant - to reiterate that it will be perfectly clear. To avoid unnecessary complications, please, if you can withdraw this amendment in writing; after we have voted on it, we will save one vote. Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much. My colleague, Mr. Ašić, has already answered me in part. I've just been comparing the contents for the fourth time, the fifth time, which is completely identical. However, if you allow me, I would ask that the second amendment, under point 2, to Article 2, is, in fact, the word "addition" which is changed by the word "amendment", is identical. And I don't understand, I'm sorry, but I don't understand why, let's say, Article 3 would be deleted and this text would be inserted in Article 2, as I understand this amendment. Since, in essence, Article 3(3) of the Rapporteur is substantively identical to the second amendment to Article 2. But if I've overheard or missed something, I hope I get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Notwithstanding the fact that the amendment is practically immaterial, it allows me to draw attention to another particular feature of this regime in connection with the possibility of discussing the amendment to Article 2 or Article 2. If you all look back a little bit, I believe that you remember the debate in this Chamber when we asked the Minister of Transport, Mr Jakob Presečnik, when Slovenia will introduce an economic public service for passenger transport in road transport, then the Minister has made a vehement assurance that everything is ready to happen by the end of 2004. However, as stated in Article 2 et seq. in conjunction with Article 17, which regulates the award of concessions for the next four-year period, everything shows that nothing will change. In Article 17, you wrote that the first four-year concessions for the implementation of the public liner of passengers with validity until 31.12.2008 were awarded to carriers which, on the basis of the currently registered timetables or the transport schedule, carried out public line transport in 2003/2004. This is totally contrary to what has been written in the amended draft law or what you have written in the amended proposal of the law, so that the directorate will determine before the concessions are granted the need for transport, which would then be one basis for one of the scope of this public economic service, which the State intends to establish and put into operation by the end of 2004, which would be absolutely necessary. What I have said shows that the implementation of this law in the field of road transport will not change anything. Licences will be granted for timetables, which only confirm and summarise the existing situation in the field of road transport, which we know is bad, because we have a number of places that do not have adequate and appropriate links with regional centres and with the state centre that make normal life impossible for people, that I do not say that they are not allowed to eventually find employment in a non-regional centre, that I am not talking about a national centre, because they are necessarily bound to their own transport because public transport means are not. It's not simple. On the basis of everything, I do not believe that what the Minister has announced will happen in this area. However, he simply predicted that by the end of 2004, the adopted legislation and the adopted transport policy would have established a public passenger transport economic service which would give all people about the same standard in the field of passenger transport in line transport. This literally means some accessibility, some frequency of transport, and some, I will say, the price framework for these transports, which should be such that people return to the use of public transport resources, which would solve a number of problems related to this biggest flaw and the biggest problem of transport policy in the Republic of Slovenia. Nothing on the basis of what we accept today will happen, there will be no new checks, there will be no new links, there will be no new tracks. For the next four years, this law grants concessions for the volume of passenger passenger transport to the extent we have today. In allowing further checking and correction of timetables, which, taking into account the practice of previous years, implies only a further abolition of the lines which, according to liners who have a completely monopolistic position in this area, are unprofitable. The regulation, however, prevents any initiative in this area. It prevents smaller private or smaller companies, craftsmen, etc., from performing to at least try to compete in this area. This is very bad and does not show that anything would change in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Azhitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Of course, in many ways I can agree with Mr Sušnik, but it is regrettable - and this could also be decided by the chairman - Mr Sušnik held a general debate on Article 2 and not on the amendment to the amended proposal of the law and Article 2. Mr Janc, my fellow Member, also pointed out this problem on behalf of the Group of Members and, of course, we all in the Infrastructure Committee are aware that the resolution on transport policy, which we will either adopt in this mandate or in the next one - is necessary to adopt - will probably indicate a whole range of needs for amending this and probably other laws. Because we are all aware that the field of line public transport is actually very problematic in Slovenia. This time we do not discuss the urgent changes to the law and do not in some way change the general transport policy in this area. Otherwise, I would have replied to Mr Barovic that there is an important difference in the second amendment, although it is really necessary to read in detail the text that we have adopted on the committee like this amendment. In fact, if I were to publish the text adopted by the Infrastructure Committee, it would then be necessary to amend the concession contract, which is a more permanent act, on a yearly basis, depending on the number of years it has been amended for, except twice. If the amendment is adopted, the concession contract will only comply with the new timetable. She's not going to re-descripte and re-conclusion. And that's practically the nature of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u52	Thank you very much. "Addition" and "amendment" are two words that change in the amendment. I'll try to understand him. Thanks for the explanation. However, I still ask, in addition to wanting to know why, in the amended proposal of the law, delete Article 3 and transpose its contents in Article 2. That's the question, why, what's the point? In fact, the change is just in the word, what I said a little bit earlier, "complement" or "amendment". Also, why delete one article and transfer the complete content to Article 2. I also want to know about the amendment to Article 4 - we have the original text of Article 4, in the Rapporteur, of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. A further amendment to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, which amended Article 4, was then adopted, and we now have the amendment back in order to return it to the original form written in the Rapporteur. I am just asking why this is necessary if a complementary proposal has been adopted, why we are returning it to the original proposal. I mean, I don't see the point. I want to know if it's a substantive change, whether it's a formal change or why it happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. It is already clear from the text of this Article, which we are considering, that this is an article and a law which applies exclusively to rural areas. That is the part of this country that is in absolute degradation under all the criteria. The fact is, the country cannot tackle this problem. Also, this new amendment with changes in the timetables goes precisely in the direction of reducing even the fighting number of lines that are still open in the countryside and which provide these people with connections to larger centres. Earlier in the debate of the groups of Members, the two Members mentioned the various amounts to be ensured in order for this system to function at the existing level at all. However, I would like to point out that there are around 8 billion tolars in the state budget in the accounts of the three ministries which co-finance transport in their own way. One way is through the Ministry of Transport and on this item about a billion tolars. The second item is the Ministry of Education, which subsidizes school transport of students and students - and here is about 2.2 billion tolars of money. The third item is the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, which pays a scholarship allowance of around 4.5 billion. In short, money in the budget to solve the problem of lines and line transport is in the budget of around 8 billion. The maximum amount mentioned here in these discussions was around 6 billion and a half. In short, money is more than enough on existing items in the budget. And since the state does not know how to pool its resources and systematically channel them to solve a problem, it does not, in fact, disintegrate and benefit anyone. As we discussed the problem on the Infrastructure Committee, we drew attention to this. This was also a special point, and nothing has actually been done since then. And I find it very difficult to believe that only with the changes, with the novelties of the laws will we solve the problems that occur in the countryside. I've got to warn you about this. All the ministries, including the government, were warned about this problem about a year ago, and I myself have asked the question of the mission and also an initiative to solve this problem, but after one year the government in this area has done absolutely nothing. The eight-and-a-half billion tolars in the budget are so much money that all the high school students and all the students can get 70% of the ease of transport, bus and bus. And that would probably provide more than enough passengers to maintain these lines. However, the state has no concept of government resources operating separately and each for itself and therefore these problems remain open. But the money that is is disappearing through a variety of channels. I think it would be wise to add another detail to the law, in addition to such additions that we will now accept, even in the case of a ruling coalition, which now has virtually all ministries directly under control and also all ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you very much. In connection with this amendment, I would like to complement my colleague Tank in that, according to the Government Office for Local Self-Government, there is a further 4 to 5 billion tolars to be allocated by the municipalities to co-finance the transport of school children to school. There's a very specific information. From 600 to 8,000 to the local population, this cost is the sum of the total. And if we add these 5 billion to these 8 and a half billion, then it is even clearer and more obvious that in this area large money is being turned, that the state is investing heavily in this area, that the results are, in spite of everything, and because it is being protected, that there is no adequate results in this area of the monopolies of line carriers, and yet more and more often, that there are too many places and villages in the Republic of Slovenia, which no longer have bus connections with the regional centres, which, by the way, poses an insurmountable problem for the elderly, for the poorer, for those on the edge of how to get to basic goods, health services, not the last resort for social work, where assistance would be arranged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Can we have Mr. Peternell now, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I will try to give a brief answer to all the questions raised, which would somehow start at the top. The essence of the already existing law, as well as all the proposed changes, are aimed in this direction, in this situation, in which we are today, when carriers set their own timetables, when they determine the price and are also entirely economically dependent on this price, the State, the operator, set up by the State, and then this operator also sets timetables. I agree with what Mr Tanko has said, in fact, that, unfortunately, the country in various areas has already allocated enough money for these purposes and also the first task of the ministry and also the new minister is that we are somehow trying to pool these funds. We have also tried to pool funds for the transport of primary school children, but this has already been dispersed across local communities and it is therefore better to keep this within the competence of local communities and get out of this system. Economically speaking, it may not be the most justified, but in fact it is almost impossible to establish this system. Mr Barovic asked about the meaning of these amendments to Article 3. Article 3 has essentially only moved to Article 2; it is a matter of alignment with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The essence of this proposed amendment, however, is in the new third paragraph, of course it is very insignificant, but it is essential. The existing bill provides, in essence, that the timetables are integral parts of the concession contract and then, by amending the concession contract, the timetables also change. We have received from the legislative and legal service, I must say that it is not reasonable that concessions will be awarded to carriers for lines, that is to say, the example of the Ljubljana-Kranj line, but the timetable will be determined by the controller once a year, except twice a year, but this is exceptional. Once a year, however, these timetables are already being coordinated, in line with the needs of schools, businesses and so on. In fact, this is only a matter of minor changes to the law already in force. And the Ministry now plans first meetings with the Ministry of Finance regarding the merger of these funds. We have already agreed with carriers; one of the amendments is also due to coordination with carriers. And I must say that most carriers, including smaller ones, agree with the proposed concept. If there's one thing I've forgotten, I'm sorry, and then maybe I'll make it up to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u59	Thank you. I conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendments to Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the LDS Club of Members and the United Nations and DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word? We're at the 4th. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you very much. From the outset, in my presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group, I announced that we will not support this amendment, because it simply means harm to rural areas. So now that we are coordinating the road transport law with the directives of the European Union, and when we have to allow special line transport to also be arranged for the transport of school-bound children and workers, it seemed reasonable to us, and on the Infrastructure Committee we discussed this extensively; this Article 34 was the main point of discussion. And we have come to the conclusion that we would, however, form an amendment to the committee to allow other passengers to be transported by these special line transports. Of course, there are certain areas where there are no regular line transports and there will never be, because the population is small and ageing and individuals have to travel daily. At that time, I wanted to present this illustration to the committee, and I gave an example from our environment, where an elderly villager who does not have his own transportation has to drive from 25 kilometers away to the city of the local community to see a doctor after work. This was accepted by the other members of the Committee to provide for such an option in this amendment of the law. Now, today or days ago, I get the amendment by which the parties to the ruling coalitions make this determination, draw our decision and restore it to the impossibility of such a solution. And then in your explanation, you say that it is more reasonable to find a different solution, if at least it is partly economically justified for citizens to have a regular line there and that this regular line is co-financed by the state and the local community. With everything we have said about the financial difficulties bus carriers face today, you write or the ruling coalition to make more sense to ensure a regular line. Will a regular line be provided for four or five passengers? Absolutely not! Not at all because it makes no sense. Because this country just doesn't have that kind of money. Of course, I understand that the monopolistic pressure of bus carriers is in this direction, so that no decision is taken to enable these passengers to drive through these special line transports, to go and make a regular line and then to co-finance such a regular line between the State and the local community. But calculate how much money the Transport Ministry today gives for this, and how much should it put into the future! While it is true that in your explanation, for example, in Germany, public bus carriers co-financed 19 000 tolls per capita per year, Finland co-financed with 55% of the total cost of this compulsory service, that in Italy this percentage was between 20% and 60%, etc. I am also aware, and I know that in Slovenia too, these funds will need to be combined somehow, as former colleague Tanko explained, although I do not think that this will be enough, because what bus carriers expect today is that in the Ministry of Transport there will be an increase in resources, but that what is in the social and education fields remains, so that in any event it will be necessary to ensure in the future, if we want to maintain public bus transport, we will have to provide our own larger resources. However, do not work in such a way if we can simply solve the matter. Efforts to maintain a greater number of passengers in line transport - certainly, but meaningful, rational and cost-effective. What you are proposing is neither economic nor meaningful, but even less economical. I propose, government representatives, that you re-examine this amendment, withdraw it and take the decision that has been discussed on the Committee and agreed with by most members of the Committee. No, but today there will be Members of Parliament who are not following this debate, who are covering others for most of the time. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the areas and then in the evening will decide on this amendment and adopt the decision you are proposing, which is against rural development. [[...]] This decision is against the rural population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. So, such a debate as it is today, and probably was also on a committee that I did not follow, and at the time of the adoption of this law in 2001, it was in the previous term when we amended this law and claimed that we were Europeanising it. In fact, we have Europeanised it, but we have made it monopolistic and the content is always the same because the problems are always the same and this amendment to Article 4 proves that this is essentially a bureaucratic process, that it is a matter of creating and prolonging monopolies, and I hope to say that this is a burial of bus transport as a whole. The explanation itself tells us everything, but this explanation does not support the dictates of content, but speaks the opposite. This explanation would be to keep it that way, and let me tell you why. In fact, it has been written down and a contract between the transport order and a list of passengers to be driven by this transport must also be concluded for private line transport and it is prohibited to collect passenger by accident. As a result, this type of transport cannot provide public transport to people in remote areas without public liner transport. That means we have a marriage, and now we can't do anything. Now we're wondering where the disturbance is. It is said that what is proposed here for these lonely people, who would also like to drive those lonely ones, which are small numbers, by transporting them. Obviously for them there is no disturbance to the law, which is stupid - forgive this expression - which is bureaucratic, which is monopolistically directed. And because we have such a marriage, we prefer to do something else because we can say that we have such a marriage and now we cannot do anything else. That's sad! This is sad, and you even hope to write that the place will be without public line traffic. And then the continuation - this is a flower: the only sense of a solution in such places is where at least part of the economic interest of citizens exists, co-financing by the state and the local community and ensuring public line transport. And allow me to ask you, Your Honor, and whoever suggested this to you, what about these contractual transports? But there's no co-financing of the state and the local community? As far as I know, local communities pay by vacating their budgets. Now we're supposed to fund another parallel system so that five people can do it - I don't know where it's going to go! And after you point out that the EU states, Finland, do not know which countries are co-financed by the people's heads. Yes! Yes, gentlemen, you alone need to know that we do not have a European budget, we do not have Finnish, we do not have German, but we have a Slovenian budget. Where's the rationality? We will probably have to solve these things before we reach the European budget, I think it will be so large on the head of the population. And this amendment is just a simple blackmail to have two systems for carriers to serve in two systems, one school, which I'm going to say is that the state and the local communities pay fat and create monopolies, and another line, which, of course, is not interesting for these big monopolies. Since time is too short, I wouldn't give you examples of how these great monopolies behave. In rural individual remote areas, only a small bus of a local carrier is possible. If you haven't already learned that, then I'm not surprised you're destroying this bus transport. Because these big guys don't care what's going on in there. However, there is no rationality here, so of course such an amendment cannot be supported and if it is in here, then neither will I fully support this law. Not only will I not support him, but I even strongly oppose him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u63	Mr. Azhitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Mr Petan found out correctly, I think we discussed this six years ago and then three years ago. Well, I guess we'll do it today, too. It's just that today's conditions have changed a little bit. If there was still a struggle between domestic large automotive companies and so-called small entrepreneurs, of course we are facing an open market today. Even with foreign motorists who, if we don't see them yet, we'll see them very soon we can and of course there's a big difference between linecars and so-called contract cars. Sometimes they were called contractual or special, as the law calls them. For liners it is necessary to obtain concessions and I believe that they will create all the conditions for those who are able to carry out these line transports. I think we have enough skills in Slovenia. They shall be free on the market. And I'm asking you whether you'll still be defending this kind of transport if someone from Austria shows up as a contract carrier and picks up everything live at bus stations 5 minutes before domestic liners. Or half an hour. I wonder if you'll defend that if that happens. And if we don't protect our domestic interests, that's exactly what's gonna happen. The legislator proposed the most or the most restrictive, which can be limited in the case of European directives. The deletion of Article 4, paragraph 4, of course means, in fact, that contractual services have become purely ordinary line transport and that they no longer need to be contractual. Will it not be possible to implement - because special transport requires a list of passengers who can drive and a number of other conditions - or will these transports, which will be carried out on their own in addition to line transports in Slovenia? I believe that the explanation is very correct that the amendment of this article has already opened the door to those who have been banned from driving on these special tracks, namely: students, students, I do not know who else is covered here. Yes, of course, the problem in the countryside is great. And I agree with that, too, but that's not how we're going to solve it. We are back to that transport policy and to how we will have a transport policy in the future in Slovenia. We're not going to solve this with this law, but we're going to do a lot of anarchy and monopoly. We're talking about it now. [[...]] We are talking about protecting the Slovenian interest, and every law we adopt must also be seen in the light of how within the borders of European legislation we can actually protect ourselves as much as possible, and that is now this moment's maximum. If we don't accept the amendment, we're opening the door for everyone. And really you, Mr. Petan, and everyone else, I ask you, what are you going to do if a car carrier from Koroška makes a transport contract, I don't know what, in Ljubljana and on this line, where he's going to drive, pick up passengers at all bus stations? [[...]] [[The response from the bench.]] That's not true. That's not true. [[...]] That's right. We're opening the door. Good, if you are for the door to be opened; I am for the amendment to be supported, to be incorporated into the provision of this law, who can be driven by special transports, all those who are defined by the European Directive are also referred to as contractual transports and that there is a maximum of what we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. It is already quite exhausting that, in some cases, we are so blindly following the directives of the European Union. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these directives, which we are coordinating this law, are from 6 to 12 years old. From six years to 12 years. This is said to be an extremely outdated conduct of this country, that we adopted the law two years ago, and we didn't even take these things into account inside and do a lot of work because of work. That's the first one. Secondly, I think there is a possibility in these directives that certain things will be dealt with differently by the country affected. We have heard about this many times in this national assembly, and we have arranged a number of things differently, in a way that is more likely to have been more responsive to this country. This is one of the typical cases where one small detail can be arranged differently. The fact is that special transports are not mass transports, we need to know that this is not public line transport, it is not a timetable, it is not a system that will go in half an hour, or every hour, but it is a special solution. And here it is possible to also make it possible, in special cases, especially from areas where people are at risk, where they do not have regular line transport or are very rare to take advantage of this option, such as in the case of illness, accident or anything else. Why would we close this option?Oh, my God! And even otherwise we should have done it. I think that very large differences in this area are being introduced, mainly because, say, in Ljubljana, where we have urban transport, pensioners have discounts and there are no discounts in the countryside for public line transport. You know! Speaking of equality and we have it here and over, we don't know how to write it in law. And we're talking, I don't know, about stimulating the countryside, about even, and I don't know what development is, or even basic things like a bus map, we don't know how to do the same. For the same category of consumers! It's a disaster! The other thing is. I think it is right that this matter remains in place to be used where necessary, and therefore I support this existing solution. And I don't think this exception is going to do absolutely any harm. But the fact is, with all the solutions that we accept, we encourage not line transport, but passenger transport. Mr Ašič, we encourage and stimulate passenger passenger transport, with this spread of money, which is budgeted and spent aimlessly on various forms, under the cover of co-financing of bus fares and line transport stimulated passenger passenger transport. And much of what we should put into the concept of public transport and reducing burdens and transport and the environment, we pay and, above all, support the gas lobby in this area and here we are a successful force. So, I think it's right that we should at least let these things go in this part where we can do it and where it's still possible to do it to enable this combined use. I absolutely oppose such a selective and irrational approach. You who are actually the most austerity-oriented in this House, scatter the matter and do two solutions where you don't need to! No need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u67	Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I will most definitely express my opposition to this amendment, because the implementation of this amendment constitutes a violation of a standard which could, in the manner agreed on in the Infrastructure Committee, be enacted primarily in the rural area. I would like to remind you that from this amendment there is also some ignorance of the situation. You know well that it is a legal system for transporting children to school, which covers practically our rural areas in a qualitative way. The introduction of the regime to open this special line transport for the regular transport of passengers would solve the extremely pressing problem of accessibility of people to municipal centres. You object to this without a valid reason. I'll back this up with the next one. Large liners have absolutely no interest in obtaining a business on these special lines. On this occasion, I can tell you that when they came to look at the basis of a public invitation to tender, where such a special line transport should have been carried out, they said that they should be driven by others and not by them. This special line transport usually does not coincide with or follow the same relations as lines of line carriers with valid concessions. And yet you object. At the last general meeting of the Retired Society, questions fell in the congregation from which I come, when we will co-finance the transport of pensioners in public transport. Yeah, listen, how do we do that if you make it impossible by law to get into some form of public liner transport, which in this case, which is the only rational thing, would coincide with a special liner transport that we're already paying for. Look, totally incomprehensible, illogical. You are opposed to practically taking three school children from Čreta, which is 9 kilometers from Vransko and 600 meters from Vransko, where we take three school children with the van, the space for at least 12 and 14 passengers, also allowing the elderly lady who lives upstairs to be brought up at the same time legally. Incomprehensible, puzzled with all sound logic. And you're doing this consciously and you're apologizing for protecting some national interests?Oh, my God! Yes, please, which and what national interests. Which national interests and what national interests you are protecting, and you probably think you are protecting the interests of public liners who have an absolute monopoly in this area. And you do everything, regardless of what the consequences are and what the side effects are to protect the monopoly in this area, a monopoly that is proven to be harmful and which has brought our transport policy into the situation we are in. This is why you are forecasted to protest, strike, requirements for abnormally high levels of subsidisation. After this love of Slovenia, there are empty buses, whose unit price is unreasonablely high and forces us, potential users, to drive with cars that are cheaper. Incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Azhitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u70	Everyone is probably right in this debate because everyone lists some of the most isolated and exceptional cases. In fact, Slovenia has many empty buses or too empty, but not contractual transports - lined, lined. They are preferred because they have a contract for so many and so many passengers and a payment guaranteed; they are even in favour. If someone in a bus with 50 seats has a 30-seat contract and drives without any restrictions, 20 can fill them at bus stops by picking them up in front of the liner that comes after him and filling up 20 more passengers. That's what's been going on, and it's going to happen to us if that's the case. I know cases where the bus drove contract workers between Krški and Novi Mesto and there was a great war years ago between the one who started 15 minutes later and was on a lineway because, of course, this carrier, until he had a full bus, had picked up passengers at bus stops. We can cite extreme cases, but we will not solve the problem with this law. We will not solve the problem of those two, three people in the most remote countryside of Slovenia, where there is no contractual transport. We're not gonna solve this. But we're going to save something else: we're going to make order. In fact, this change slightly opens the door to the regulation so far because some other categories of passengers are given the opportunity to drive on specific line transports. So far, this restriction has been greater. This extends, but does not fully open the door and access to all those who would like to ride these buses if there is any room in these buses. I claim that contractual carriers have an advantage over liners. Liners also have the risk of driving empty if there are no passengers at the stations to enter. Contractors can also have an empty bus, but they have a paid ride, because I don't know why - for unknown reasons, the workers didn't go to work the day that this bus could take them. But you're forgetting something I warned you about before. At least my colleagues assure me that most European countries, including our neighbours - Austria, Germany, have arrangements that in some way safeguard the interests of domestic passenger transport and carriers, of course in accordance with the directives, but cannot go through the directive. In this I think the point is that this paragraph of this Article is deleted, because already in the first paragraph the doors have opened and are open slightly better than they have been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u71	Here you go, Mr. Peternell.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I would just like to complement Mr Auschwitz, given the whole debate. The talk was about a monopoly. Concession is a monopoly by origin, and this carrier will have a monopoly on this line, so this law gives him a monopoly. The problem is that it is not possible to drive random passengers by means of special and linear transport, as has already been done, without any changes and also with the proposed changes. Thus, the problem of these passengers in remote areas cannot in fact be solved by this transport. Primary school transports were mentioned. I must say that in the discussions we have had, the primary school leadership strongly opposes the use of these buses by any other passenger. Of course, I'm talking about the ones we talked to. I allow the possibility that there is a different opinion. But I also owed Mr Sok an explanation when he asked before. It is true that we discussed this on the Committee, and we did not end up objecting to this amendment, but I regret that even carriers present or representatives of carriers did not give their opinion because they then warned us in the coming days that this amendment would introduce an additional confusion precisely because of this. The other solution in the system, which is in the existing law and with changes, is in fact not like introducing lines where there is still a need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Article 4? I'm closing the debate. Who else wants to discuss Article 4? Mr. Sok. Your time has run out, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to say again that I don't understand why the deletion of paragraph four. These discussions by Mr Ašić are over what is said in paragraph 4. In Article 34, paragraph 4, I will read it, as we have adopted on the Committee, which reads: "Except for the carriage of other types of passengers not listed in the first paragraph of this Article in places and from places where there is no public line transport of passengers." Where it doesn't exist, it's said that someone will pick up 15 minutes earlier and so on, it's over, it's not the subject of this amendment. This amendment states exactly, and other passengers are listed in the first paragraph, which, "with special line transport, transport of compulsory children between home and school, disabled persons, passengers who are in need of medical care, soldiers and workers between residence and part-time where they are part of a seasonal character. Then this fourth paragraph, as we have changed it, adds other passengers, if it does not exist, I repeat, public line transport. I see in this great solution for our rural areas. I see a lot of people from practice who don't have their own transportation. Do you know how to drive? Taxis order. But these are not people who would not know how richly they are. These are the people who get that minimum pension or a minimum pension, and so on, who don't have the resources, but they have to go to the doctor, they have to go after public affairs. And I don't understand why schools would object. That's not an argument at all. Nevertheless, the congregations are paying and the congregations are those who can say, oppose or not, not schools. I understand that those who do not pay may object to such a decision. On the other hand, I also understand people who ask the mayors of the competent congregations when you will arrange, when you will do so, and expect some solutions. But they are aware that even in the National Assembly there is this misunderstanding, and this, I will not call it, I could say, a corrupt logic that does not want to follow the needs of the population. It's not just a matter of this law. This is a matter of many laws that we accept. You don't want to just listen to the needs of our population. I am driving a car, just like most of the gentlemen and ladies who are sitting here in this Parliament, and we do not feel this problem. My mother can feel it. If she wants to drive, someone has to take the time and drive her, or like I said before, order a cab that charges her so much and so much. These aren't the solutions. If we are to give our people as much access as possible, then it would be necessary to rationalize this matter. And I'll say it again. Schools aren't the ones who can argue with that. Why would they object? Or should children and the elderly not be on the bus together? Yes, dear God, because they live in families where they are together and in many places they are together. I don't know if that comes from any health care logic or any logic. If it's in the background, another illogical logic. I think that you can still think about this in the ministry and this amendment, which is really unnecessary, uneconomical, uneconomical, nothing, except for the problem it brings and, of course, continue this problem, which is called the problem of daily movement or communication between people in the way that was adopted by the committee, to be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u75	Can we close the debate on Article 4? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 15.50, 10 minutes to four minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We'll continue at 13.05. I thank the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u76	Colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE FINAL BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2002. The proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances as the parent working body. I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Dr Andre Bajuk, to present the report of the Commission. Dr. Bayuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Hello, everyone! Unfortunately, I don't see any representatives of the Court of Auditors or the government, but... The Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances has addressed extensively the proposal for a final account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. First of all, I should mention that to our great surprise, as well as satisfaction - when a matter is properly done, it is certainly necessary to mention it - in 2003 we received the Court of Auditors' report on the closing account for the first time in the time foreseen by law, already in the first days of September. We immediately called on the Commission to deal with this, but we had to cancel it, because although the Commission received the Court's accounts report, the government did not send us this same closing account in time. On this basis, however, we have had three sessions, one of these for a very long time, in three different dates, and we have examined not only the Court's report, but also in detail the other reports that the Government must submit to the National Assembly by law. Now, in these five minutes, which the Rules of Procedure give us to talk about these things, I would like to present only the last part, i.e. the conclusions proposed by the Commission to the National Assembly, although I hope that I can explain another matter as a Member and on behalf of the Group of Members. For it is that we propose - and we hope that we will seek sufficient support, as far as this is concerned - at last only three conclusions: Firstly, by the end of June 2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia amendments and additions to the Public Finance and Accounting Act to ensure that their provisions on drawing up and proposing a balance sheet statement are harmonised as a mandatory accounting statement for all direct and direct users of the State budget and thus provide the correct legal basis for the implementation of Article 146(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In preparing amendments and supplementing the Accounting Act and the Public Finance Act, the Government should also take into account the necessary harmonisation of the provisions of these two laws with international accounting standards for the public sector and European accounting systems. Another time. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should, as soon as possible on the basis of an analysis of the most frequent and repeated violations of the provisions of the Public Finance Act, the Accounting Act, the Public Procurement Act and the sub-legislative acts adopted on their basis, amend and supplement the criminal provisions of those laws, thereby increasing and demarcating the sanctions of officials and responsible persons, direct and indirect budgetary users. In determining the most frequent and repeated infringements of the provisions of those rules, the Government should also draw on the analysis to be prepared by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Third time. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the Law on Public Servants in the field of disciplinary responsibility. It should extend all limitation periods for the introduction of disciplinary procedures, in particular when infringements are determined by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance Budget Supervisory Service or another supervisory authority or law enforcement authority. The limitation periods of disciplinary infringements, when identified by those external authorities, shall begin to run from the date on which those authorities inform the responsible persons of the direct and indirect budgetary user or other persons of public law. The limitation period for serious disciplinary violations should not be less than five years. The Government should also examine the appropriateness or inadequacy of the current regime when amending and supplementing the rules of disciplinary responsibility, the disciplinary measures shall be carried out by the direct supervisor and the clearer arrangements for the implementation of the individual disciplinary measures referred to in the Staff Regulations, or the withdrawal of the position, the discharge from the title, the termination of the employment relationship and so on, as well as the measures of the notice and the financial penalties. These are the conclusions proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances as a parent working body to this National Assembly for Admission at the time of consideration of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you, Dr. Bajuk, for this introductory presentation of the report. In the meantime, we were joined by Minister Helena Kamnar, State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, who we welcome. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I will give my word as the first Jožet Tank for the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to the secretary of state and to colleagues and colleagues who are in the hall! The final account is an important document by which the government submits a report on how it implemented the annual financial plan. Formally, this document has the same weight as the budget. When we adopt the budget, when we adopt the plans and promises of the government, the omija is full of ministers, the Prime Minister and his advisers come along, and there is an indescribable crowd on the balcony. There are many interested professionals from various services, and the media do not miss the opportunity to learn about the annual plan or the forecasts and promises. So when we take the fairy tale part, the crowd is really big, and so is the media response. Today we are looking at the closing account, but for 2002, however. It is interesting, however, that almost no one who has been so interested in budgetary developments is interested in the implementation of this project. Almost nobody cares what happened: whether it was a hack or a shovel. The Prime Minister and his ministers feel no need to present us with achievements and problems, i.e. results and problems, such as derogations. No Prime Minister, no finance minister can take half an hour to talk about it, feel no need. This is interesting and sad at the same time. However, I think it would only make sense to summarize and analyse the budget document and also the implementation of this document in order to draw at least some educational experience so that they can better plan and work in the future and to remedy mistakes and dangers. It is true that the final document is justified but was reasoned, including the budget, even more so, but the parade of smiles and smiles did not fall away. The final account indicates the quality of the government's work, is its mirror, is its certificate. Given that today is such a poor participation of the most responsible part of the executive, I can conclude that she does not like her own image to be ashamed of the analysis and presentation of the results of her work, so we will speak to others. The government has an extremely large margin of manoeuvre, has an extremely high potential for a day-to-day reallocation, which is why there is also a noticeable large or distinct difference between realisation and the budget actually adopted, that is between words and actions. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, it is not surprising that the Court of Auditors is extremely costly in its report on the revisions of the state budget. Almost every individual auditor with a few hundred million revenue audited by the Court of Auditors has a comprehensive report such as the State Budget Audit Report. That we don't even talk about individual reports about the work of ministries. The latter are only a page and a half or two, or a few pages, and in general, they are all shorter to that part of the report than the Court of Auditors uses only for the introduction, to present a home for the elderly. It is also appropriate to use the material for the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control and also of this assembly. The Court of Auditors’ report is therefore extremely modest. There is virtually nothing to be learned from it, except perhaps some kind of salary error. However, anyone who listened carefully to the discussions on the committee or perhaps read the report could find something surprising. The representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that the Court of Auditors was involved in the production of the final account. We can ask ourselves why we have an accounting court and why there is nothing shocking about it. In fact, the Court of Auditors can't just review itself. Once such a procedure has taken place, the round has ended and, according to the domestic accounts, the joint project of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors is the final account. Therefore, it is also likely that the Court of Auditors’ report for 2002 was written somewhat differently than it had been in previous years, and it is also appropriate to do so in a modest manner and therefore no significant shortcomings have been identified. The Court's very circumstantial report favoured an in-depth review and analysis of the final account, mainly thanks to the President of the Committee on Budgetary Control. But the findings are shocking. Following the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors, on the basis of the findings and comments of the President of the Committee on Budgetary Control, significant deficiencies were identified or detected, a number of accounting errors, a number of miscalculations, incorrect books, large amounts of difference between basic data in tables and explanatory notes, poor and incomplete explanations of the final account, there were obvious differences between explanations and tables, a number of other inconsistencies were identified. Explanations by sector are also very different, which confirms that work in the preparation of the final account is very unsystematic, as well as that the quality of control is lacking and that each ministry works in its own way and according to its own rules. All of this hampers the transparency of the closing account and shows that in the closing account it is in several places to set up unverified claims. There are a lot of data and claims that do not have the appropriate basis in the analysis. For example, debt data are problematic; the differences are billions. I believe that such a report, the final report, such a final account, including such a report by the Court of Auditors on the final account, is a bad certificate for both the State administration and the Court of Auditors, and it is totally unacceptable that a final account has already been revised, according to the findings of the Committee on Budgetary Control, to be subsequently corrected after the audit, both in a tabular and in an explanatory manner. The fact is that one of the very important problems in working with public finances is the area of public procurement. Here, the Court of Auditors notes a number of procurement errors, even if the invitation to tender is not published in the Official Journal, that there are major irregularities in the publication and application of the criteria for concluding contracts that are not in line with the offer to disregard the conclusions of the State Audit Commission for the revision of public procurement procedures, by which the tender has been fully or partially cancelled, in order for a number of other irregularities to occur. It is also noted in the State budget - these are, inter alia, all the findings of the Court of Auditors and are set out in its report - that direct users use the budget resources for the purpose which is not necessary for the operation and performance of their tasks; that the direct user uses the budget resources for the purpose for which it did not have a legal basis or the conditions for the transfer have not been met; that the direct user has taken over the obligation and paid the appropriations from the budget for the purpose which was not foreseen in the financial plan. There are also a number of price irregularities, irregular discounts, irregular quantities, unpaid contractual penalties, and the amount of expenditure was not in line with the prescribed level and even that payments are made on the basis of unreliable documents. In short, these are very important findings regarding irregularities, particularly on public procurement. What is important is that there are no sanctions in this area. The responsible do not act, the procedures do not take place, the actions are regularly outdated, no one takes on professional or political responsibility. Nothing happens. Nor do any arguments suffice, for where there is no serious reporting, as in this case, there is no public pressure and the authorities do not act and eventually fall out as if everything is in the best order. In many areas, therefore, there is an extremely high degree of flexibility in the distribution of public funds. The people who have implemented these measures have a complete professional and political outrage and things are repeated from the budget to the budget, from the audit to the audit and can be traced from the report to the Court of Auditors. So far, however, it is not known that any sanctions would be carried out in this area. One area where there is considerable flexibility is also rural development. After all, the fundamental development programmes, which the National Assembly considers more than merely an executive fact, remain extremely secret, as no revision of the National Assembly has ever been carried out in this area. It is also very difficult for Members of the National Assembly to judge the implementation of both the programme and the budget if an item weighing more than 100 billion tolars has never been revised. However, things have been found to have been wasted on this, such as the purchase of falcon. However, if there is no audit, if there is no report and no finding, there is no error. The government and the complex service that serves this work are extremely wise and also responsible. There is also a major problem in the area of employment, including in the case of appointed government officials, this is said to be the case with these most responsible, directors of individual state offices. There is also a lot going on here that goes beyond the rules, beyond the criteria, both those relating to education and those relating to work experience. In this area, too, there is an incredible number of errors or an incredible number of exceptions. A number of times, then, when such regularity is established, a regulation adjusting the situation to the actual situation is corrected. And all of a sudden, everything becomes legally, correctly, or exceptionally correct, or everything is in order. However, this raises the issue of equality before the law and also equality, not just equality. It has also been found that internal inspection, internal control in ministries, is extremely poor. The budget inspection is also incomplete, it is poorly staffed and because it is more or less indirect this year, but this year I think it is directly subordinate to the financial ministry, it is intended to protect and explain mistakes and shortcomings rather than detect and act. It is often found or also found that liabilities are transferred from a business year to the following financial year, all of which means concealing actual financing problems and also covering up the actual budget gap. One of the major fundamental shortcomings is that the state does not have a balance sheet or that it does not have a list of assets. It is said that even less the government does not know what kind of property this country has. I think it's a disaster for every master if he doesn't know his property, because it's not possible to manage his property in this way. Therefore, it is thought to mind, it is extremely improvising and the statements of the government and ministers do not have a real basis in the data, because these data are simply not available or are often unverifiable. The revenue side of the budget is also very unclear, as it is not recorded anywhere, in any explanation, including this balance sheet debt, unrecovered debt. The problem may also be that Dursa's records are not harmonised, that the support system is not quality and that many errors are also due to this. The Court of Auditors also requested the replacement of the director at the time of the audit of the tax administration, but the government did not act, covered obvious errors and shortcomings and, since there is no public pressure, did not take any responsibility for this act. However, it is obvious that such practices are completely incorrect and unprofessional. In short, it is a series of illogical approaches, it is a matter of ignoring the decisions of institutions that have clearly defined tasks and are legally independent. All too often, decisions are covered by arguments of power, but there is no particular interest and enthusiasm for content and serious work. It is extremely irresponsible, however, that the final account is so poorly prepared that such trivial errors as have been identified by the Commission are overlooked by the auditor and that serious work has been carried out only by the Commission, which has pointed out the errors of the ministries and audit institutions. On the basis of what I have said, I consider that the budget is only a protocol document, that it is only accepted to have it, that the budget is adopted only to determine the percentages of individual ministries and that it is accepted only for ministers to cement their items. Many items are burdened by a European clause in such an adopted budget, that is to say a European item that cannot be amended, is impossible to change, and in fact ministers are preparing only budget implementation reserves in this way, and with this reserve, these cemented items are then freely available by themselves more or less through government decisions. This is also one of the extremely important shortcomings of this budget. I estimate that about a quarter of the budget is earmarked in this way, and in fact this budget is pure fiction or pure manipulation. Another extremely important thing that happens after all is through reallocations and the rapid distribution of money, but the fact that there are no real programmes for most of the reserved items is that there are no real projects. And then these funds are distributed quickly through conclusions, because each minister has to keep his account, not in quotations, but literally spends on keeping the quota for the preparation of the next budget. And the fact is that also because the funds are shared in this way, there are a number of shortcomings that I have previously identified and that have also been identified by the Court of Auditors. I must say that we do not support such irresponsible work in our Group of Members. In fact, we are very disappointed that the implementation of the budget does not develop any more high-quality debate in the National Assembly, and that the findings of this debate will then be used to prepare the following budgets in order to contribute to the quality of the work of public finances in this area as well. It's also one of the responsibilities we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with a proposal for a final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002, also submitted an audit report on the accounts and implementation of the budget for 2002 issued by the Court of Auditors. The summary of the 2002 State budget statement shows that all revenues were realised at 98,2 index points and all expenditure at 98,3 and that an excess of 99,3 index points was achieved, all in terms of the comparison of the current budget for 2002. The financial claims and investments were achieved according to the current budget of 97.8 index points. Net debt of 94, all revenue of 98,4 and all expenditure of 98,9 index points. A summary of the audit findings of the correctness of the implementation of the State budget shows that the sum of the expenditure of the State budget for 2002 which was not in line with the rules of 0.47% of the total expenditure of the State budget. The main part of the irregularity in current expenditure was irregularities in the determination of salaries and other expenditure for employees. The shortcomings were also identified in the transfer costs, with emphasis on the items remaining transfers, since in some cases subsidies and other aid were granted without a call for tender. The audit of the accounts shows that the accounts are prepared on the basis of the Law on Public Finance and the Law on Accounting and in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines on the preparation of the final budget and so on. The revenue and expenditure balance shows that the structure of the budget revenue for 2002 is almost identical to that of the budget revenue structure for 2001. The same conclusion is true that the structure of expenditure has not changed significantly either. The increased budget expenditure is due to the increases in payments made on 3 and 6.1.2003 for the settlement of commitments incurred in 2002. The balance of the accounts of financial claims and investments for 2002 is positive. The financing account proves that the country was almost exclusively in debt on the domestic market in 2002 and therefore the structure of the debt repayment is significantly different from that of 2001. It also demonstrates that liquidity debt during the year has not sworn in the legal amount, which means that the debt was in accordance with Article 81 of the Public Finance Act, which provides that the debt must not exceed 5% of the revenue or expenditure of the last budget adopted. The Court of Auditors shall determine, or recommends, the suspension of the establishment of a balance sheet at the level of budgetary users and at the level of the State and shall propose an appropriate addition to the relevant legal provisions so that, at all levels of the balance sheet, the underlying financial statement showing the state of the funds and liabilities to the resources shall be the same. In fact, the Accounting Act and the Slovenian accounting standards require the presentation of balance sheet items and liabilities to the resources by showing the state's assets in real and fair terms. The revision of the regularity of the implementation of the State budget for 2002 was also carried out by revising the regularity of the implementation of the financial plans of 17 direct budgetary users whose audit basis is given in the specific part of the draft final accounts of the State budget for 2002. The audit review covered data on salaries and other expenditure for employees, partial current and investment expenditure and on current and investment transfers. According to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, there are no significant misstatements in the accounts of the State budget for 2002 and it may therefore be considered that these statements in all important respects correctly represent the revenue and expenditure of the State budget for 2002 and therefore give a positive opinion. With regard to the opinion on the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans of the audited budgetary users for 2002, it is clear that six direct users had business in all important respects in accordance with the rules, which means that a positive opinion has been expressed and eleven when the operation was in significant respects in accordance with the rules of the opinion with reservation. According to the Court of Auditors, the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 was in accordance with the rules, subject to an opinion. On the basis of the report on the accounts and the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002, issued by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, we are fully accepting and voting for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to start with one correction that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not actually submitted a final account together with the Court of Auditors' report on the audit of this final account. In fact, the Court of Auditors sent this in the first days of September and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent it to this National Assembly on 30 September and was only published in the Rapporteur on 6 October. I would also like to take our position on all of this as an explanation for certain decisions. Once we have almost reached the end of our mandate and have acted on the budgetary and other public finances monitoring committee for all this period, we must only find that there are still very large shortcomings, as regards the transparency of our public finances and that there are also major shortcomings, as regards the determination of responsibility in the implementation of all these documents and the instructions given to the executive branch by the legislative authority. Because finally, according to our constitutional order, the National Assembly is the one who can determine what resources the Executive Authority will have at its disposal and what will happen to these funds. If the final account is not the subject of some serious presentation, let alone analysis, then the system actually, if I say domestically, does, because that responsibility is not being exercised. I would also like to explain how our system is actually set up, which at least sounds very rational on paper, but it is implemented in some special way, like many things in our country. This is because our legislation provides that the final accounts must be prepared by the executive authority or the government in the first months of the following year to be subject to an immediate audit by the Court of Auditors, which must report to the National Assembly in the first days of September. Why is this so premeditated? Because when the budget for the following year comes into consideration - and this is foreseen in mid-October - the National Assembly already has a report in its hands, otherwise it is being revised, what has happened to these funds and whether this public spending has actually been carefully carried out, not only in terms of efficiency, but also in terms of economy. Therefore, when I presented our report on behalf of the Commission, I also said that we were pleased that the Court of Auditors could send its final account report to the National Assembly for the first time in the first few days of September. Since it is so effectively possible for the National Assembly to review this final account and have a better basis when discussing the budget itself. Unfortunately - I don't know if it's planned or unplanned, but I have to say very strangely, because if the Court of Auditors could issue an opinion on the final account, you just have to think that the final account existed. And we actually thought it was so strange that we called a meeting of the commission, but there was no closing account. We only had an audit report, but we didn't have a final account. The government sent a final bill, as I have already mentioned, only, I think it came to the National Assembly on 30 September, was published on 6 October in the Rapporteur, of course too late to actually be able to review this final bill and to use it in the discussion on the budget itself. It's sad, but it is. We hope that in the coming years, at least this year, we may have the opportunity to do these things in some rational way, just as it was conceived when this legislation was written. Not at home, but at home, as is done. I would also like to explain to you; I think it is important that colleagues and colleagues who listen to this debate at all, if not for those who are watching us, how this process is actually going on. What's the Court of Auditors looking at? Because if we could just stand up - I have what was recently, a few days ago, Mr President of the Government here explained - then we would have the wrong image. The Court of Auditors doesn't review everything because it can't review everything either. Review, make an audit based on sampling, which is completely acceptable from a professional point of view, on pre-specified sets or items which allows to create an image, whether this final account is the correct expression of what really happened. But don't look at everything. Then random sampling is done. Random sampling means that certain public contracts are actually randomly selected and this is reviewed in detail and then obtained by the opinion they deliver. And as we have already heard today from a colleague in the United List, who is also a member of the Commission, the Court of Auditors based on this sampling is in the case of direct budgetary users - I think in its entirety that 17 of them have delivered an opinion with reservations and also a request, while the other has a positive opinion and requested a report, a so-called response report, how they corrected these certain errors if they were corrected, that we then have a final picture. The Commission for Budgetary Control immediately considered this part of the Court of Auditors' report at its November session. The Court of Auditors and the law do not require that the National Assembly obtain them. That's why we also asked for audit reports, but I'm going to focus first on what the Court of Auditors found. The Court of Auditors has found this, and the government has also confirmed to us that it was the first time that it has requested a review and reviewed the balance sheet. In this review of the balance sheet, it has also found very important things that I will read otherwise, because I think it is right that we are aware of what is happening. It's an old story about the balance sheet. The story of the balance sheet has its basis, of course, in our constitution, and this is the second part of Article 146, which says: "The state and the local communities show the value of their assets by means of property balances." So a clear definition at constitutional level. Then we have a law on accounting, which also requires this, but the law on public finances does not do so among the mandatory financial statements. And through this difference, which should not be the subject of any debate, since the final constitution applies more than perhaps a flaw in the law on public finances, all the finance ministers have found in recent years some consolation that the balance sheet has not been drawn up or submitted to this national assembly for consideration. What does that mean? This means that we do not actually have some clear picture of what we have. If we do not know what we have, we cannot demand responsibility from anyone, as my colleague Tanka has already made very clear. This year, this is the right thing for 2002 and it's the right thing to do. And what did they find? This is important. "The reconciliation of the accounting situation with the actual situation on 31.12.2002 was verified by reports on the annual inventory of funds and liabilities to the resources of the individual budgetary user as set out in the annual report, as set out in the accounting law." Now, the Court of Auditors does not tell us how many there are, but says, "most budget users have not submitted a report on the annual inventory of funds and liabilities made in accordance with Article 40 of the Accounting Act, and according to the state of affairs on 31.12.2002, the accounting situation of assets and liabilities has not been aligned with the actual situation. As a result of that audit finding in the context of the audit procedures, we were unable to obtain audit evidence of ownership, the existence and completeness of the balance sheet on 31.12.2002, the unspecified long-term assets, the tangible fixed assets, the long-term capital investments, the long-term capital investments, the long-term business claims, the assets receivables in the management and other balance sheet items. Relevance of computer software support. We have tested the analytical records in the segment of the intangible long-term assets and intangible assets and found, the Court of Auditors, that it does not support the verification of the completeness and accuracy of the records of intangible long-term assets and tangible fixed assets and associated value adjustments on 31 December 2002. The Ministry of Finance, the public accounting sector is in 2003, reporting to us by the Court of Auditors, has started to implement improvements in computer support for those analytical records. So the records are either non-existent or incomplete. But the Ministry is doing something in this area to improve. However, the Court of Auditors does not tell us whether this improvement or this improvement will actually be sufficient. Thirdly, computer software support, management of business books, this is the so-called MFRAC - those you understand - in 2002, this was noted by the Court of Auditors, allowing for shortcomings in recording business events and thus creating balance sheet differences. So it's already a computer program error. We have found, according to the Court of Auditors, that computer software support for the management of business books, MFRAC, does not have installed sufficient controls to ensure the reliability and protection of data. In 2003, the Ministry of Finance, the public accounting sector, began to address the above-mentioned shortcomings of MFRAC computer software. We hope - this is my supplement - that now that we will receive the final invoice for 2003, even by the Court of Auditors, we will get an opinion or at least an assessment if these corrections are a computer program that supports the management of business books, if these corrections have actually been made and if they are sufficient. Explanation of balance sheet items, this is also a report by the Court of Auditors, not according to the relevant items in the statement of revenue and expenditure, financial statements and investments and the financial statement, but is shown as a difference - this is indeed something very strange - between the situation of the individual balance sheet item for 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2001. So, what did the Court of Auditors then recommend to the government? Let it change the legislation, so we have also adopted this decision in our committee, ordered it to be prepared, and we also propose it to this national assembly as a conclusion, I think the first decision is to have this government act. What's he gonna do? Let us once and for all address the issue of our legislation and align it with the second paragraph of Article 146 of our Constitution and that we will only have it once. It is a big concern, and I think that anyone who really hopes and wants to see that our country will make real progress in some clear way, that we will have some more transparency in public finances, must advocate that at least what each meeting has in Slovenia will really happen, and this is an annual balance sheet. Because only on this basis will we then be able to determine the responsibility of those to whom we trust in our constitutional order the resources that we all share. It's a democracy, not a monarchy, even if it's temporary. So, as you might say at home, some minimum order has to be. Of course, what was the final conclusion of the Court of Auditors regarding this review? Yes, that they cannot issue an opinion, they cannot issue an opinion on the balance sheet of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Constitution requires because there is no balance sheet, which is, however, not worth presenting under such a name. Well, as for the balance sheet and our hope that something is actually going to happen in this area. We have certain reports, otherwise informal in this National Assembly, that it is supposed to be done in a slightly more serious way, as regards the final accounts for 2003, but we may know about it in time, but I do not know if this national assembly is still in this composition. Then I would also like to mention - you know that, to a certain extent, we were very critical, especially to the final accounts and the final accounts report by the Court of Auditors, both personally and also members of the opposition, who are members of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. As a small one, I would like to highlight this example, such as how they imagine things. We have table 1, if anyone has this rapporteur in front of them now, you can look at him. Table 1 distinguishes between the budget adopted and implemented, this would be normal for them to know what the National Assembly has adopted and what has actually happened then. The Court of Auditors, however, presented us with a well-balanced budget, so the comparison is somewhat, I would say, incomplete. If anything, then we should present the original budget, then the rebalancing and then the realisation in relation to both, this would be much more transparent to understand. Irregularity in current and investment expenditure. With regard to the irregular distribution of the deputy directors of the authorities in the composition, it was explained that this was a systemic error of the Government, which placed these deputies as officials, although this is not the case under the State Administration Act and under the previous administration legislation. The same error occurred in all cases when such deputies were appointed. We asked the commission to make these things better, and to a large extent they have also improved. Then our old friend, the area of public procurement. We asked what the National Assembly could do to improve the situation. If he only receives some general findings on irregularity - and this is the method of reporting to the Court of Auditors - only general findings of irregularities that recur year after year. This is the conclusion of this experience, which we have in our daily work on this committee, that certain errors are repeated. We were explained that this part of the report is only a summary of the findings, but at least personally I cannot agree with this, as the report is not more accurate in the revision of individual users. This is a problem with our way of reporting to the Court of Auditors. The representative of the Court of Auditors said that in small orders - this I would like to remind you all to listen to what the representative of the Court of Auditors said at the meeting - that there are many irregularities in small orders. Many, even because direct users have written too many complicated rules on these orders, but now we cannot implement them consistently. These are systemic problems, problems of a systemic nature. This is what we have pointed out when, following a rapid procedure, we again adopted a law on public procurement in this National Assembly. And what did we find? That all of these proposals that we have made - the amendments have not been adopted - we will move on as we have done so far. The Court of Auditors also pointed out the irregularity of transfer expenditure, as it found that the financial plans of payers, transfers and programmes of work of indirect budgetary users were lacking, but it did not give us an answer as to how to change this. We hope to address this open issue in the future. As far as the income and income balance in 2002 is concerned, and this is Table 2, I think it is right that you are aware of everyone who is listening to this today, as follows. That the index for the revenue of the state budget compared to the previous year, 2001 was increased by 2%, that is 102.5%, and the index for expenditure was 109.8%. We have increased revenue by 2.5% and expenditure by 9.8%. It's interesting. That gives us at least some image of the way we're going. The Court of Auditors found that the problem of records with the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia is recurring as the records of the administration for public payments and records of the tax administration do not match. Then we also learned that the records do not match within the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, but that the National Assembly formally knows nothing about this. The only thing we know is that the government has made up its mind and that we still have, now or no longer, the same director who, in five years, was unable or unwilling to arrange. This amount of irregularity is, however, lower than the threshold of irregularity, but based on this sampling. Otherwise, this comparison by the Court of Auditors is not fully credible in my assessment, because they have simply calculated what is the difference between the tax administration records and what they have discovered - the records of the Administration of Public Payments. But the fact is, we have three different records within the tax administration, and now I don't know what they compared to, they haven't told us anything about it. With regard to the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans of direct budgetary users - also certain problems. We have asked and requested answers to certain inconsistencies in the report itself, but I would like to point out in this part of my presentation to one dimension of this issue, which is indeed of a systemic nature and is very, very important and I ask for attention. This is an analysis of the state of internal audit in 2002. There is no system that can only operate on the basis of the functioning of the Court of Auditors. It is imperative that we develop and implement internal auditing at a systemic level in our country so that we can hope for a more coherent and efficient use of all the resources we trust. The fact is that a programme called SIGMA - this is not the same SIGMA as SIGMA in the Ljubljana Bank as part of the OECD, technical assistance is all written down. It is well known what needs to be done, but measures are not yet in place. The number of people involved is very small, inadequate for what Slovenia would need. As far as the conclusions are concerned, I would like to point out that at our first meeting we requested - and this was the decision adopted by the Commission - on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia at the point of consistency of the accounting situation with the actual state of 31.12.2003 and called on the Minister of Finance to provide an annual inventory of all assets and liabilities to all direct users of the State budget, in accordance with the Accounting Act, without delay. Although it is not formally so, we have not received reports on this implementation of this Decision, but we have received oral assurances that this has actually been done. Otherwise, we have requested, and see, in November 2003 from the Budget Control Service of the Ministry of Finance to report on the implementation of this Decision to the Commission by 30 April 2003 at the latest, but we have not yet received a report on this. Of course, then the decision on the balance sheet, the fourth decision, which is very important, and this is that we have requested from all direct budgetary users a report on the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans of individual parts of the state budget, because the report of the Court of Auditors alone was incomplete. A letter to the chairman, if he was arrested by the Court of Auditors, and a response report. On the basis of these response reports, however, we have fully reviewed a variety of reports with more than a few thousand pages. My colleague, Jože Tanko, has already explained that we have actually found major inconsistencies - intertable - between the report of the Ministry of Finance and the reports of individual ministries in the programme work are either complete or highly inconsistent. Sometimes the smaller but, of course, the accounting statements are such that any discrepancy is unacceptable, the only thing that is acceptable is full harmonisation. We have requested that the Ministry of Finance require all budgetary users to review again to ensure harmonisation, this has also happened and we have reviewed this once again. The fact is that we also requested certain conclusions at the same time, which were five. I would just like to mention one matter that bothers me very much in this regard, and this is our second conclusion that the draft of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 should be published in full in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This Decision has not been implemented. The leadership of the National Assembly informed us in a letter from President Pahor that they would not do so, because this was supposed to be an unnecessary cost for the publication of this proposal for a final budget account or not in the interest of its contracting authorities, so they are prepared to make public publication only on the websites of the National Assembly. Otherwise, we disagree. We believe that it is essential to start a process of responsibility in Slovenia not only in this national assembly, but also in front of the Slovenian public. That this is most appropriate to be published as it is published, however, the budget itself, the leadership of the National Assembly has promised that this will go on the website of the National Assembly. I checked to see if this actually happened. It happened! We've got websites now, just that I've had a lot of trouble finding this. Because a lot of people are going to have problems looking for this, so I'd like to tell you where you can get it. It goes to the web page of the National Assembly, you have to open, there under the National Assembly, adopt acts, after the adopted acts you open the entire alphabet, you go to the letter, there at the letter with the opening of the closing account, and in the final account you have this two thousand side report, by parts, but also I cannot guarantee to colleagues and colleagues that it is perfect, because I just accidentally opened one and is incomplete It is, say, transfer of unused funds from the budget last year, this is an important matter. Six tables are mentioned and there are no tables. So, I don't know what we're going to do, I hope that the National Assembly, the leadership of the National Assembly, will review the integrity of this report, and I think it is imperative that it does. Now, a few more words on the conclusions that the Commission is proposing to this national assembly. First of all, I will not repeat this matter, the balance sheet and the necessary legislative change, as regards the law on public finances and the law on accounting, so that we will then have harmonised legislation with our constitution and implement it. The second decision, which is also very important, is that, as a commission, we have asked the Court of Auditors, but has not yet done so, on the basis of an analysis of the most frequent and repeated violations of the provisions of the Public Finance Act, on accounting, on public procurement and on sub-legislative acts adopted under these laws, to amend the criminal provisions and laws, and to increase [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] sanctions on officials and the responsibilities of direct and indirect budgetary users. [[...]] Why is he actually going? Look, the final bill that the government ends up out there somewhere in the middle or at the end of March every year. The Court of Auditors must analyse this matter and have a certain period of time, which is perfectly normal for it to do so, this is a very difficult work, following this sampling, as I have already explained, but at best, in these nine years, the best example is that we received this document from the Court of Auditors in the first days of September. The interesting thing is that when the National Assembly begins to review this matter and wants to determine whether or not to demand the responsibility of the officials, there is nothing they can do because the deadlines have expired. After six months, no one can get hurt because it's all too late. Here we have some disagreement, a lack of consistency with reality, every official can violate what he wants, because there is nothing we can do to him under the law, so we have suggested that this national assembly - and I hope that you will support this decision - requires the government to amend this legislation and also this criminal provision, because it is absolutely necessary that we introduce it. I have to tell you that I was also surprised that in the post-revision report, one ministry reported to the Commission that it had decided - and this is the Ministry of Agriculture - on the basis of the fact that in the last five years it has always had a negative opinion by the Court of Auditors that it has finally decided that something will be done. And the minister just announced to all his staff that he would institute criminal procedures and disciplinary procedures if anything were to happen and if they found faults. And on the basis of the Court of Auditors. I think it was a well-intentioned, smart decision. Then we asked all direct budgetary users whether they had started any criminal proceedings or disciplinary proceedings. The National Assembly finds this out too late, and ministers know it in time if anything has happened. The Ministry of Agriculture is in our report, and I read to you - I think it is right to say this - that this is the decision we are proposing that makes sense because something has finally happened. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has dismissed one official in relation to the findings of the Court of Auditors and has not extended the term of office of the Director of the Authority. The Ministry took note of the findings of the Court of Auditors and informed them that disciplinary measures would be taken in the event of a re-infringement. The Ministry of Disciplinary Procedure should not have introduced any delays. That's the problem - the back of your hands. In connection with the infringement, two disciplinary proceedings are under way in 2003. At the same time, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Culture also reported on this. In the Ministry of Culture, they were unable to do nothing because they were behind schedule, but as far as the Ministry of Economy was concerned, the then Minister Dr. Tea Petrin reported: On the basis of the Court of Auditors' findings on irregularities, the Ministry of the Economy replaced the head of the sector for technological development and innovation with persistent problems and errors in this sector, and due to the increasing importance of technological development promotion programmes, the sector's leaders were relieved of their responsibility to manage this sector. I will not now assess if this is a sufficient punishment, but at least something has happened to start certain officials aware that the law must be respected. Because if it doesn't, at least something will happen. I think it would be very important for the government to be asked to adopt this decision and to ask the government to make amendments to the law so that we can also introduce it. Your Honor! It is sad that the final account does not play the role that it should play in the work of this national assembly. If we had these reports in due time and were to deal with them on all the work bodies, then we would have a better basis when we decide whether or not we have already decided on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. If it comes too late, it's some kind of municipal inspection, through various tubes, instead of having a constructive role. This constructive role has not yet been played in the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that the time will come for us to do this, but hard work will also have to be taken, and in particular that the government will also draw up this legislation and that all this area will be regulated and we will start going in a more prudent direction than we have ever done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We have heard the position of the New Slovenia Group. The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club will now be presented to us by mag. Zoran Gračner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u85	Dear Vice President, colleagues, representatives of the government! On behalf of the LDS Group, let me present a proposal for a final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. The Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the control of the budget and other public finances, of which I am also a member, is at three meetings, starting on 29 November 2003, followed by the 31st, which was three times repeated, and at the 32nd meeting, on 18 March 2004, as a parent working body, addressed the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and forwarded it to the National Assembly. Later, on 16 February, the basic text was replaced by a new text of the proposal for a final account. According to unaudited data, the total revenue of the state budget amounted to 1131 billion dollars in 2002, representing 95.9% of the implementation according to the budget adopted, or 98.2% of the implementation according to the budget rebalancing. Direct budget users spent 97.3% of all approved and spending rights for this year, according to the budget adopted. According to the budget rebalancing, this share was 98.1%. The extent of the realization of the rights of use by different categories of economic purposes varies mainly depending on the nature of these. The progress achieved in the main macroeconomic indicators in 2002 shows that some macroeconomic aggregates, which have had a major impact on the realisation of budgetary and total public financial aggregates in the past year, have been realized with different dynamics than anticipated in the preparation of the budget. In the current implementation of the budget, the so-called commitments transferred from the 2002 budget were of particular concern to the 2003 budget. These are the so-called dwindling liabilities of the country to be paid at the burden of the financial year, and this could not be done in the context of current inflows of funds to the state budget under the condition of the target deficit in the revenue and expenditure balance. These payments must have taken the absolute advantage of the current budget in 2003, or they must have had an absolute advantage in 2003, as they had an impact on the general financial discipline in the country. The proposal for a final account shall be written under the same scheme as the budget. They cooperated with the Court of Auditors in its work. In 2002, the Court of Auditors requested a balance sheet and found some irregularities. For 2003, a new concept for the preparation of the balance sheet and appropriate guidance was adopted to ensure that the balance sheet is properly drawn up. Although the Public Finance Act and the Budget Enforcement Act do not require the annual production of the balance sheet, the Public Finance Act provides for the production of the asset balance every other year. In order to complete the 2003 accounts, the Ministry of Finance has drawn up a specific regulation with census provisions and internal supervisors have also received specific instructions on what and when to sign. Most of the errors regarding the operation of the computer support system for the management of business books have also been corrected, where the Court of Auditors has found that there are certain shortcomings which allow for shortcomings in the recording and at the same time there are not sufficient internal controls in the system itself. With regard to irregularities in public procurement, the representative of the Court of Auditors, at the meeting of the Commission, pointed out that there were many irregularities in small orders, also because direct users had written overly complicated rules on these contracts and now they cannot implement them consistently. The harmonisation of the law on public procurement by European law has addressed already identified shortcomings in implementation itself, but positive legislation alone can never in itself guarantee the full legality of the conduct of budgetary users, but it must also be translated into their awareness of different forms of education and awareness. However, a new law on public procurement, based on the new directives adopted in the European Union, is also being prepared. The Court of Auditors notes that the internal audit situation in direct budgetary users is improving. The issue of internal audit is also the competence of these services, as it has only recently been possible to train for State auditors. Some errors have also occurred with the incorrect allocation of the deputy directors of the bodies in the composition. The irregularities have been or are being resolved - and pointed out by the Court of Auditors. The Ministry of Finance, on the basis of a decision by the Commission, which found errors in the proposal for a final account, in particular concerning the non-conformity between the table and the textual part of the final account, reviewed the entire table part of the final account and found that there were no errors in this part. At the same time, the Ministry called on all budgetary users to verify the consistency between the table work and the explanations for the implementation of the financial plans of individual users. The budgetary users did so within the time limit set and the Ministry then re-examined the consistency and found that, apart from the minor differences resulting from the rounding of amounts, there was no greater and no more uncoordinated. In the Liberal Democracy Group, we will therefore support the draft final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which will be presented by Mr Saša Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u87	Respectable present. What is interesting is how we read differently or represent the text of an individual act. It is interesting how we speak differently about public debt, about the indebtedness of our country. When we speak to representatives of the opposition, i.e. those parties that do not constitute the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course we are all outraged at the daily indebtedness of our citizens and citizens, and when you speak to representatives of the ruling parties, it seems perfectly self-evident to us. I sincerely hope that when the Slovenian National Party represents and forms governments, my position will remain the same, that is, that we should not play with financial obligations, not without burdening us financially, but burdening financial citizens and citizens - unfortunately, they do not know this as a rule. On 28 November 2002, we discussed it, and you accepted it, the final account for 2000. A few months later on 26 March 2003, we discussed and you accepted the final bill for 2001. These days, I went specifically to the brother of the magnetic records of individual representatives of political parties and, of course, of ours. I will quote my words from 2000 and 2001 and 2002 and 2003. Firstly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is unable to plan revenue and expenditure for the budget, which confirms and proves indexation. And thus the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has deceived all budgetary users, both direct and indirect. Indirectly, however, we can consider all citizens and citizens of our country. However, it is true that, as a rule, indirect users are not aware of this. I can still say the same thing, as I stated on 28 November at the time of the receipt of the closing account for the year 2000 - in short, no change. If we look at the indices of individual budget items, we see that the situation is still - one and the same. The following second quote: "because in the National Party we do not want this harmful practice of the Slovenian Government to continue, we will not support the final account." Unfortunately, the opposition of the Slovenian National Party has only proved to be true in our claims. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - the Ministry of Finance - has once again submitted the same final budget account, for which, in the National Party with all credibility or seriousness, we can claim to be an exclusive silence for the financial affairs of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, for the first time, take place in a non-transparent and second time, resulting in an increase in public tax debt and an increase in the so-called deficit. Unfortunately, we estimate in the National Party that in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia you are not prepared to deviate from this traditional way of accepting final accounts, which in fact mean only the political approval of the financial games you are playing. Then I will point out once again that regret and the rules of all financial moves, whether they are included in the budget or not, whether directly or indirectly, are only taking place in the pockets of all citizens and citizens in the final stage. If the state of public finances were to be reflected in a personal financial situation, whether we accept it or the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, which prepares and executes the budget, I believe that the ratio of Members, Members, Governments of the Republic of Slovenia, all those involved in the preparation of the budget and the final account, of course, would be much more adjusted and that the budget and the final account would be accepted with the responsibility attached to such an act. And now, sufficiently in general, we are going specifically to propose a final budget account. We're exposing the first dilemma we've raised all these years ago. What would happen if the National Assembly did not accept the final bill? Formally, nothing would have happened and, of course, there would have been a major shift in the thinking of politicians, political parties and I sincerely hope that Slovenian governments too. In terms of content, the legislative branch of the authorities, Parliament, by rejecting the final account, would tell the Slovenian government clearly and loudly that we do not agree with such a policy where no one is worried about burdens, financial burdens, citizens and citizens. According to my assessment, or according to the National Party's assessment, this would make it clear that we do not accept this kind of irresponsible game by the Slovenian government, which is one and the same mistakes - as the Ministry of Finance has determined, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out, as the opposition representatives have pointed out before me and they never want to identify the representatives of government parties. So, playing with money that is not ours, but burdening all citizens and citizens. In 2001, we addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, specifically to the Ministry of Finance, a proposal for measures that would be necessary for some kind of balanced game of public finances, where, of course, it also includes a final account which, once again, has no formal legal implications when receiving or rejecting. Only by giving a positive note and saying: the government of the Republic of Slovenia has done well. What if the other government of the Republic of Slovenia does so if you come from this national assembly with praise? Of course, it will work in the same way all the years to come. However, all of us, at least in my opinion, who have adopted this budget or at least have looked at the matter of public finances in our mandate, know that public finances are in a very bad situation or situation. That we have successfully patched them up for some time with the so-called indebtedness of our country, but of course, every debt is once upon a time. And I sincerely hope this moment doesn't come soon. And then not only will we not meet any convergence criterion, as an approach to the euro, but we will feel it and feel it, especially the citizens and citizens of our country. Allow me now about the closing account. The Court of Auditors found, plurality, many irregularities. The government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, has not provided us with answers to the negative findings of the Court of Auditors. So we have the findings of an institution such as the Court of Auditors, but we do not, and we do not meet, no year so far, not this year, nor this year, with any measure which next year, when we take the final account for 2003 or prepare the budget for the next period, would, of course, take these measures into account and that the final accounts would be such that they could be proud of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, irregularities in current and investment expenditure, as well as irregularities in public procurement, are identified. In particular, we have seen this item in the magnetic record of past years. For the past six years, irregularities in public procurement in our country have become constant, and despite the fact that this has been happening for the past six years, we have not had disciplinary measures, of course, which would represent minimum measures, nor any other measures that would, of course, improve the situation in the field of public procurement. And why don't we have action? We don't have any action because it doesn't bother anyone, because the final account shows a situation that was in the old days of 2002. But it's not true. We must not monitor the closing account in this way. The final account with a responsible policy and with the responsible adoption of this act would mean that it constitutes some basis for a budget, a basis for a good budget. But of course, in our country we don't want or apologize, you don't want a good budget. Why, of course, it's another story. It could probably also be discussed at a previous extraordinary session, but you all know how it was - that is, that corruption session. I'll keep talking about transfer costs. Again, the Court of Auditors, that I will not always refer exclusively to the opposition as to how it identifies irregularities, I will also go to institutions which, of course, are not oppositional and which, in my opinion, at least this time have done their work a little more correctly than usual. In the case of transfer expenditure, it again identifies irregularities and shortcomings and tells us that the second table shows how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia uses budgetary resources irrationally. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, once again in its entire act, about 250 pages thick, does not state how it will prevent this irrational consumption. And given that this has been happening for 12 years, it makes sense to ask ourselves whether the government does not want to break the tradition of irrational needs. I will slowly begin to believe: yes, it is on purpose. That, on purpose, Slovenian policy wishes to have such a budget and other budgetary acts, directly or indirectly, through which it will be possible to spend public money irrationally. After all, this is not public money from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shares it. A little bit of that, a little bit of that, etc. The Court of Auditors identified, on the home work body or the budgetary control committee, and that the National Party also identified the problem of records. Again, as every year, since 1998, we have different records, different records for the same things. This year, or 2002 in particular, the gap between the record maintained by the Administration for Public Payments and the tax administrations of the Republic of Slovenia is disproportionate. But, of course, nowhere else, in the whole of the act there is no measure or measure that would have the effect of not meeting again in the next budget period this kind of different record of the most important data in our country, that is, data on public finances. I'm going to touch on the financial and investment account. The balance amount of the account is very high, about 100 and several billion Slovenian tolars. It was explained that the balance is the result of the purchase or sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, which we Slovenians have sold to foreigners in the Slovenian government. What's going on with the purchase? In the National Party in the past period - in 2002, we continued in 2003 and now in the first half of 2004 - we have asked quite a few questions about what happens to the purchase as usual when it comes to specific amounts when it comes to a specific question - there is no answer! For a while, it was said that this purchase was located at a German bank, if I recall the Dresden bank correctly, later Prime Minister Tone Rop, former Finance Minister and one of the most demanding banks for us to sell the bank to the merchants, said that it would only be about reducing public debt. What's all this? Does public debt go down in such a way that money stands in a drawer? No, no, no. We would expect a little more seriousness from the Slovenian government. And days ago, I heard from representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the Court of Auditors should carry out an exact audit in this area. So, what's going on with the purchase of the New Ljubljana Bank? And the President of the Court of Auditors says, "No, this won't hold up, now is not the right time, or this is not supposed to be the work of the Court of Auditors." But we are talking about a few hundred billion Slovenian tolars and that I am not going to mess up the sale story of the New Ljubljana Bank, which, of course, was missing, I will continue with the financing account. Again, this reflects the difference of some ten billion -- we are talking about billions, not millions of dollars -- the difference between the permitted and the projected level of indebtedness. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, is not already a measure to reduce this difference in 2002 or, perhaps wiser, for a general lesser debt, it has not done so. At the same time, it tells us that several tens of billions of Slovenian tolars from that fundamental development programme where the government is; Mr Drnovšek, Mr Rop, Liberal Democracy and the United List are supposed to think of a plane with which I don't even know if it flew in our country once. But of course, it's just a little story, too. In addition to the speaker before me, who are two of the opposition who hope to speak about the state of public finances and who are not only willing to nod, and who are not willing to sell their own self in exchange for praising the level of public finances such as this one, or what has happened in the context of the presentation of the United Kingdom's positions, it is necessary to say that the summary balance of the situation - follows: it is found that the State of the Republic of Slovenia - I am talking about the Republic of Slovenia - of course does not have a pool of balances, which, in other words, I will point out once again, that it is not a government, not a parliament, not a third branch of power, nor anyone in this country, of course, does not even know what our country holds or what it has. And how, on the basis of such knowledge, which the Court of Auditors also has, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not only the opposition, should we expect any concrete and quality financial act at all. We can't! However, there are many areas of irregularity, but it should be stressed that if we want to meet a more credible, better, especially for citizens and citizens, the final accounts and the budget, at least this time, would make sense. This would achieve that, if nothing else, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would give her an earring and tell her that the final bill was not accepted because of us, but, above all, for the sake of the citizens, in order to better prepare the draft budget. Finally, one of the speakers said why there were no ministers. There are no ministers because 11 ministries have received an inappropriate report or an assessment of their reports, perhaps not because of this. Of course, we will not break the accounts in the National Party, I sincerely hope that neither will you and that we will say that we want quality public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the draft act and the proposed decisions. I would like to remind you that, on the basis of the fifth indent of Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this is the Commission for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finances, has proposed three decisions to the Assembly for adoption. The conclusions are set out in Rapporteur No 43/04 on pages 61 and 62. So, I am opening a debate on the proposal for an act and the proposed conclusions. I invite Mr Grošlje to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In the presentation of the positions in the parliamentary group, we have heard of some of the continuations that have more action and these actions will probably not only be until the end of this mandate, but also the next, because, of course, some also forget that the budgetary and other public finances monitoring committee is composed of five members from the opposition and four from government parties or only three. This, of course, can also mean that, in other words, any decision proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, if it is of interest, can also be adopted. However, it bothers me that it is precisely this first proposal to take a decision for the National Assembly proposing to adopt the closure of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 that all the present members of this Commission have confirmed, i.e. the representatives, I would say, their parties. Maybe I could just say a few more words. I believe that the report of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances only reveals that the Commission has taken this issue very seriously, as it is said, the consideration of the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2000, as soon as the proposal for a final account was published in Rapporteur No 80, 6 October. It is said that the first meeting was immediately in November, and I can say even before that deadline, that we would also wait for the 90-day period for which individual auditors had the right to submit their response reports. I must say that the Commission has been very cooperative here, that a number of these conclusions are also summarised on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, some refer to the current situation, at a time when the issue or matter has been addressed. Of course, a little more concrete are those who were a little later, so to speak, in December. It should also be said that at the second part of this meeting, this is 14.1., when copies of this response report were also delivered from individual auditors, that it was very, I would say, good cooperation with these individual direct budget users, that it was also constructive work and that it was also by the Commission, I can say, also by the President of the Commission, a series of suggestions on how to improve the quality of the work and the monitoring of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia in view of the stable methodology which was also adopted. I think, if I have correctly understood today, the President of the Commission, that he too has concluded that progress has been made in the work of this Commission to monitor the budget; I do not think he was critical of not being adequately responsive. And that certain proposals for decisions, which have also been adopted, indicate some more active action with a change, which is also necessary in certain existing legislation, should be in the field of labour law, public procurement and also in the field of internal audit. Let me finish. When I represented my position on behalf of the parliamentary group, we said we would support the adoption of the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. I must say that most Members will probably also adopt these conclusions proposed by the Commission to improve the situation in the area of public finances control, but of course we find that all of this cannot be done quickly. But it's time, and I think these conclusions also have their contents and their depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Bajuk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I'd just like to add something. When I was looking at a certain amount of time, which was very little at all, I just wanted to point out one more thing. It is indeed unacceptable that direct budget users are sending us their reports on the implementation of the programme work so-called, and this is in complete disharmony with other data subject to the accounts presented by the Ministry of Finance. These aren't petty things. At the Ministry of Finance, the difference was 800 million, 1,800 million. For others, there have been smaller things, so to speak, smaller numbers, but when such differences are made in accounting, we cannot accept them as a credible whole until full harmonisation is ensured. And there's something else I'd like to say. As you may recall last year, in 2003, when we examined the final account for 2001, the Court of Auditors reviewed this programme piece and actually stated that it was so weak that it was not worth the paper on which it was written, almost literally. This year, the Court of Auditors has not reviewed this, but we have examined it on the Commission and I assure you that it would be very happy for at least some colleagues to take this step and read it to see how direct budgetary users interpret the responsibility they have towards the National Assembly, what they do with money. Sad, sad. And I hope that we will also achieve this, not only that they will report these things more consciously, but above all that this National Assembly will take these reports seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u92	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you very much. If I focus on the conclusions that are being proposed, I have to draw some of the conclusions that the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances has reached in its very large part at many meetings, but I find some points or formulations questionable. If, for example, I mention, as an example of a third decision referring to the proposal, that, in addition to preparing amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Servants and Other Laws, it should also extend all limitation periods for the introduction of disciplinary procedures, in particular when infringements are determined by the Court of Auditors, etc., and other supervisory authorities. And that the outdated hands of discipline violations should begin to flow from the day these authorities become acquainted with it, etc. I suppose this may, however, go beyond some other comparative cases when certain arrangements are imposed on a particular status. At the same time, some of the conclusions, but now very mixed, are also covered by the answers that have been, as a reading of the report and the dialogue that took place between the representatives of the Court of Auditors, the representatives of the Ministry and the Commission, but have already been resolved in the process itself. Just listening to today's debate and reading reports, but I don't think it's pure fiction, as has been said today by Mr Tank, and for pure manipulation, but for appropriate and meaningful dialogue. For this reason, I also believe that the Commission for Budgetary Control is a very important and important regulation. And if, as she has noted in a number of comments, certain questions are repeated year after year, but these specific questions are answered. The answer was also given to changes in certain laws. If I mention only the law on public procurement in order to avoid those problems that are actually happening and are occurring and are inanimate and are actually constantly happening, even with the record given in the dialogue itself, that direct users themselves write too complicated rules and cannot even implement them. I also think it makes sense to comment, but this is not a decision, it was a decision by the committee responsible, not a decision to take today on the proposal to publish the report alone. I think that once it's published on the website, it's already publicly available. However, the publications achieve their goal, and this is already demonstrated by some ministries, which regularly analyse at the end of each financial year, not only spending, but also programmes according to what they planned and then realized. Thus, the website is also sufficient for those desires that may exert some kind of pressure on the transparency of public consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Kelemino's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Respectable all together! To begin with, at the outset, I will not personally support this 2002 final account for a simple reason, I did not support a budget that was at least a little optimistic, or at least euphoricly optimistic by the proponents and others who accepted it, to reach the final account is certainly a reflection, a mirror of what has been proposed and adopted to a large extent unfulfilled, premeditatedly in one way or another in a large way. This debate today is, on the one hand, more than barren work, throwing beans in the wall. In view of the importance of the document, the final account, on the basis of which the National Assembly is supposed to carry out a supervisory function for the use of public funds in the country, would, in my opinion, be necessary for such a discussion, to have someone else present in the State Assembly, not just the State Secretary, of course, with respect for her presence, but it would be appropriate to have someone else present, perhaps ministers, at least those who had reports slightly worse or anyone else. In short, interest in this document, which is extremely important, is also extremely poor in the National Assembly itself, particularly in the Member of the Government or in those who support government. These are, in particular, such final documents, reports they are not interested in, they are more interested in, perhaps how they will spend certain tax money, and significantly less how these funds were used effectively and what the final results were. Now the question is how much will the public know about this, but it is definitely that, if already, those authorities who should take the most care to properly address this document and to make certain conclusions, then the findings would be useful in the future. In order for at least the public to know what this is about and to try to ensure a future non-different relationship, a fairer, fairer attitude towards the availability of public funds through its public pressure. The analysis or review of the final account should be so thorough that it would actually be the basis for some real planning in the future. In the opening, I should also say that, given the overall scope of all these supervisory functions that the National Assembly is supposed to have with regard to the use of state resources or public funds, this control is extremely undervalued in the country. The only institution involved in this supervision is, of course, the budgetary control committee, and most of the time its president, and perhaps another member of the opposition, while the coalition is mostly concerned with all these audits, the review of budget spending, would prefer not to discuss and put them under the rug. Thank God it's not like that, but even so, this committee of ours for budgetary control is extraordinary, and I've said it many times, and I'll say it again, also humanely sub-dimensional. Members who are members of this committee, Members, I do not know if there is any one, should therefore monitor the consumption of at least the full amount of the state budget, that is 1,400, 1600, as many as there are billions of tolars and a number of other parallel institutions owned by the State, public institutions and so on, where there are still huge funds held by the State, and that 5, 6, 7 people cannot control, that is definitely. And what kind of "sport" do we have in these jobs? Nothing. One, two, three people working on it and nothing more. We should have a national assembly if the National Assembly were to be aware of these roles and functions, which it has as a supervisory institution, a small different organisation, a different job. Respected leadership of the National Assembly, think a little about these things, as well as the other politicians of the authorities, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and everyone else who owns the power, as their first and last, that I will not say too much, better not, but those who decide in the future, give this institution a little more attention and also more resources and also change organizational things so that this body will have those powers and the possibilities that it will be able to exercise real control over the use of public funds in this country. Of course, it is difficult or generally best for us to speak about the end of the budget, which has already been said, because much new cannot be concluded from this, that we should mention how this state budget actually arises; something has been said about this. We have a whole range of national programmes, resolutions, laws, various policies in specific areas, and it is on this basis that the use of state resources should be developed and also realistically planned, and then also realistically completed within a certain budgetary period, within one year. But I personally appreciate that our budgets are prepared primarily flat, bureaucratic, completely bureaucratic, and a person, when I sometimes look at the whole budget, could say that actually bureaucrats wrote house numbers from some streets, but those in Ljubljana who have larger numbers, not those from the village where there are just two, three, ten or twenty house numbers, and, of course, six or nine zeros are assigned, just as it looks. In fact, bureaucrats are trying to secure their areas in advance, and then, as has already been said, they are trying these funds, which were based on a politically adopted budget in the National Assembly, where none of the Members have any idea of the whole and they are also not interested in how the budget was drawn up and what items, but are sold for small money, some for free, some for 10 million and others for a few more. However, these targeted policies, which are in the budget, will eventually cover as well as the ZIPRO cap, the law on the implementation of the budget, which gives almost unlimited or largely the powers of individual departments or individual ministers, so that they can distribute, by a mile, between budget lines, and then completely eliminate all those policies that have been given through the programmes, through different policies, through different national programmes and so on. That is true, it shows in fact what we have found in the analysis or in the consideration of the report, of the final budget account for 2002. For it is definitely certain that some implementation of the control of the implementation of the State budget during the financial year itself is almost absent by the national assembly, except for some minorities, if a single Member may be interested in how the matter is, otherwise there is no specific control. However, according to my assessment, in the course of the year, the implementation of the State budget should be strictly controlled by individual labour bodies, which are strictly in charge of the rules of procedure, but not carried out. Each working body is tasked in its field to monitor the policy of implementing laws, implementing budgets, etc., a variety of powers that committees have but do not have. Also, at least, what should have happened, the committees, individual committees should accept the final accounts and also, because of their expertise, tell or assess whether this was best, etc., in accordance with these policies set out in each area. This is not done. Why not, I can't understand it, it's simple, it's obviously no time to waste, let's leave it all, let's go home or, I don't know, let's do some other stuff. In short, the logistics itself and only the current functioning of both the organisation of the National Assembly and all these things, the supervisory functions, are, in my opinion, far-fed or incompetent to carry out these things. Or it's just a simple reluctance not to say lazy. I don't think there's so much laziness in it, it's more that it just doesn't want to join this process, with a slightly different approach, with the kind that these documents actually deserve. We also have in the area of audit or control of the final account and also the use of public funds then the Court of Auditors, we also have some internal controls, including the budgetary inspection, but on the Commission itself we have often found that both one and the other are clearly not part of a number of tasks. What some Members have said in your debates as a parliamentary group, however, because you are more interested in it, like the LDS, when the supervisory committee has taken office, and the second date the next day the fifth time, you are more interested than the content. I mean, it's absurd. Or, when you mention how much percentage of the 2002 budget was realized in terms of planned, after the rebalancing, etc., you talk about 98.2%, etc. These things are actually important and they're not important. It's just as if, I don't know, because I've said this many times before, or a similar case, two or three or ten of them do very well and make a big profit, say 20 million profits, one or two of them do very badly, and then they create 10 million losses, and when you put it together, you find that the whole system has been operating with 10 billion or 10 billion, as you would like, winning. I mean, but you have to look at things separately, and I always say that. Those who have done well should be commended for those who have done wrong, but they need to impose certain sanctions or otherwise act to eliminate all these irregularities that have occurred, but they are not. We put all of this in one basket, and then we look from a distance there, what's actually going on in there, and what it looks like from a distance. That's not how it works. I mean, it's funny to me, I'm sorry, but actually, after all of these discussions, you're obviously only interested in a global, but what's going on in the interior, and you're not interested. The Court of Auditors has found a lot of things, although it does not generalize a lot of things then, not just in this case, but in some others. Now, internal control is also at some stage of development. When will this move forward - even some of the disciplinary measures that have already been implemented, at least now, have been pointing to some positive movement perhaps further in order to move something forward in this area. But I still think it's too small and it's really happening on some minimum scale. Those who are still responsible for unfairly, unjustly, even unlawfully, unprofitably spending huge sums of public money will never sit on a sad bench. We have already found this many times, we have discussed this, such as in the area of the CVI, etc., where, I am firmly convinced, after an unnecessary hundred million, if not a billion money has already been spilled or spent needlessly, where the Court of Auditors has also found huge shortcomings or huge errors, but no one will be harmed. Those poor little ones, because it is right that you attack them, bureaucrats are ordinary, because the laws must be written so clearly that no one can lose a tolar of public money anywhere, it is right that those who attack and discipline, remove from the workplace or whatever happens to them, but someone is responsible for always a step higher, and this responsibility should go on or reach those who are responsible for the great misappropriation to say so, public resources, but with those who do not. This conclusion also, some of whom speak of the fact that the Constitution does not need to be taken into account, for example, in the case where the Constitution states that a balance sheet of state property should also be drawn up. It's absurdity over absurdity. For some there is simply no constitution. When it seems to him that they don't need it, they don't mention it at all, and they say it's not in the law, and that's why we're not going to do it. A very strange interpretation of the constitution, the rule of law, in short, this is your system, you will never change it, you will probably need some other more fundamental changes that people will have to say that things will change. My assessment is how it can also come from this once, from this vicious circle out and that we would no longer plan the budget through some old items that have been drawn for 10 years or whatever and always come new. Once you get the budget to zero and start with nothing. That would be the most realistic thing I could think of. To erase all the numbers and then, on the basis of national programmes, laws, all the obligations that are written down should begin to consist of pieces and all the ballast that is put together in these budgets should be discarded. It's supposed to be gone, and this ballast is huge, and there's huge billions of money being drawn here, it's costing money needlessly, and at the end of the year, we see, let's just say, administrative units, and in the local community, because we don't have that much view at the state level here. Local communities, various public institutions at the end of the year, when they have money, say November, December, when they find that they will not spend all their resources, do such nonsense that these hairs go to the end, a lot. Many are running out of money, keeping it on a sector-by-sector basis, even at local level, in various public institutions and so on, and many people don't know how they're going to spend that money. And this is unacceptable and no one controls it, no one sanctions it, it should not happen, not at all, but especially by public means. I always say, you can do with private money what you want, no problem, because of me, too, I don't know, I won't say it, but public funds, not one tolar should be spent unjustifiably and not in any way lost. Now, all these irregularities that we have found on the committee itself are quite something, and this is very important, honourable fellow Members. You always think that you are very brave and optimistic and euphoric in adopting the state budget, when we accept the budget, how much resources we have earmarked for individual policies, and then in this revision we find that certain programmes are being implemented, precisely because of ZIPRA, where the minister has the opportunity to distribute these things during the year, as he likes, and this huge sum, sometimes some programmes do not come true even 50%, and this is a big sum. Especially like there. We have noted at the Ministry of Agriculture where individual rural development projects are concerned, where we have found that this is an extremely important money, an extremely important money that serves so much for rural areas and that all Members, who are either rural or rural, should still be interested in this item being exceeded, but not then fed, where we have found that 20% of this item has not been implemented. And some other items, including large sums. And this is unacceptable, this is unacceptable, some such things should not happen, but not then when adopting a new budget, but again a new one, we find again that certain policies, certain guidelines, certain laws and so on, which we have adopted by the National Assembly, are unrealised and those effects and measures that should have yielded some results in the past period, even in this or the next or the next one, will not give them, insofar as we have done as we have done now. I said I wouldn't support it. However, I expect someone who will have a different relationship to the final account and also to be controlled as a whole by the National Assembly and the relevant authorities than the existing National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you very much. My word, Mr. Tank. Mr. Tanko, it is your turn. The others who are notified to the word are not in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you very much. This is moving fast. I have already mentioned some things on behalf of the Group of Members. The fact is that, above all, implementation of the lame, practical implementation of the budget. The fact is, if the implementation of the state budget does not work well, then the rest of the public sector cannot function well, which is also modelled on the state budget. If the Court of Auditors finds significant shortcomings in the implementation of individual laws on the basis of which the expenditure in the State budget and also the charging should be carried out, it is obvious that this public sector is also invited to continue these irregularities. And it is obvious that there is much too little done in this area, as a result of this, I can also say the softness of the Court of Auditors, as well as the incoherence or lack of capacity of an inspection to control the budget. The fact is that there are mainly abuses in public procurement and wages. However, in the field of public procurement, I would mention one area, namely, the area of broadcasting, the contractual award of works in public administration, despite the fact that employment in this public administration is very intensive. This is said to increase capacity, to increase expertise, to reduce the number of staff who have old education or under-educated education, to substantially increase all these potentials while also substantially increasing the contractual work that the State Administration gives out and orders, I do not know, to produce various studies, laws and similar matters. There's been a lot of this lately. And that's another problem, that's a lot of what's in the series. It is said that laws are systematically in the package, not in one part prepared, but treated as a follow-up. Three articles each year and so on. In short, we see a big problem here. The fact that there is little interference with all these procedures is also that somehow the Court of Auditors has become more involved in comparing the legal basis for the individual execution of items in the State budget and less concerned with whether the content that has been implemented is reasonably and prudently implemented. I think that this is another field that needs to be carefully examined and that the picture in this area would probably be even worse, because in this part in which we have now had an insight, only the legal basis for individual matters is identified, and there is no analysis of whether this execution has been done rationally or optimally. The fact is that, not only in the state budget, but also in the case of users who draw funds from the state budget, there are considerable shortcomings in dedicated projects, such as the closure of mines. I have practically not seen a revision in this mandate in this area without a negative opinion. It is said that those who benefit from State resources for a specific purpose in implementation also make extremely large irregularities, derogations are extremely large, very large overruns, very large outflows of funds for unintended projects. And it's not covered anywhere by any decision, it's not covered by any law either. I think that this is one of the areas that the state administration will have to pay great attention to. Another area is, for example, the use of petrol tolar funds. The fact is that only part of the funds collected are spent on purpose. About half of the funds go into the highway programme, the other half of the funds are lost in the integrated budget. So far, I do not think the National Assembly has received any review of the individual projects for which these funds are earmarked. A list was made for the means of purchase and it was known which projects they had undertaken and the gas tolar assets had never been treated in this way. And a very special dedicated programme has been spent on matters for which it was not intended. That's part of it. The second part is that we don't really know when these funds will be returned to the highway program if they do. However, this is enshrined in the national programme and should already be implemented through annual budgets. However, given the situation as it is, it is extremely few. The next problem is that very many public companies, including the very large ones that operate, say, with 100 billion a year, lack balanced supervision, have very one-sided supervision. In particular, the government or exclusively the government appoints people to the supervisory authorities. There are different conclusions, different profits, different distributions. The Court of Auditors in these institutions, in these companies there is no control whatsoever and simply over the operation of this segment. And the fact is, in such large consumers, there is no way to identify any shortcomings. It's just because control is what it is, it's nothing. Like Dars is one of those companies. 100 billion a year or so, and not a single flaw found, and now, if we look at it, Dars has been in business for 12 years, and nothing has officially happened to all of this, even though many complications have been known. In such a way as it would be necessary to pay particular attention to, and also to, the final account and to the budget and the audits, including to these chapters, and to some others, to pay particular attention or to a great deal of attention, since this is actually a completely grey area of public sector, state administration and national assembly in this area, although it is an extremely large resource, there is absolutely no view whatsoever. And to conclude, maybe just two or three more words about it. Through ZIPRO, the government has the power to redistribute about 20% of the state budget. This is said to be a virtually variable part of the budget, which is not cemented through fixed liabilities, can be redistributed. This is a huge manoeuvre by which I can say the things I said earlier in the introduction on behalf of the Group of Members, when someone reserves funds on individual items, this manoeuvre allows him to redistribute these things freely and lays down completely new content, which with the budget, with the programmes that the budget must cover, has absolutely nothing to do with. And this is manipulation, which, unfortunately, is embedded in ZIPRO, into the law on budget implementation and is an excellent manipulation space and provides an excellent basis for any government action that is unfortunately also legally covered. I think that these things should be denied in future in future budgets, these transfers should be limited, and I think it would be significantly better to bring down the legal balance of the budget, as is the case with many others. We all know that the budget cannot be as the final account. There are also large derogations in enforcement, but I think that there is also a need for timely information on these matters. However, it happens to us that we have adopted some kind of budget, but the final account is completely different, by content, by scope, by purpose, etc., and I think that such practice should be discontinued as soon as possible. This is also one of the reasons why it will be difficult for me to decide to support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Would Mrs. Secretary of State like a word, perhaps? Mag. Helena Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I agree with the many findings that have been made today. In doing so, I would like to add that, perhaps in recent years, there has been a greater emphasis on the budget balance of revenue and expenditure and a little less emphasis on the balance sheet. Last year, we have also begun intensively to correct the situation in the area of monitoring of tangible and intangible assets, and I think this will already be reflected in the 2003 final budget account. I would like to say that those promises, which are also written in the Rapporteur, have already been fulfilled, that improved information systems are both the IFRS and those information systems that support the monitoring of tangible and intangible assets, that a number of new guidelines and regulations have been issued to monitor these assets, and I think that things are going in a positive direction here. The second point I would like to draw attention to is, in fact, the attitude of the State budget towards certain other acts that the National Assembly is also dealing with. These are individual reports in specific areas, such as the report on the implementation of the basic development programmes resulting from the law itself and addressed by the National Assembly, the report on public debt submitted annually to the National Assembly, the report on the implementation of the motorway programme. We have things set up in such a way that each such specific law is reported separately and that only the part relating to budgetary resources associated with the implementation of this law is included in the final budget account. Of course, the final account itself does not provide a comprehensive picture of a particular area, such as basic development programmes, such as a highway programme, because funding sources are different and different. And that's why information is lacking here from the final account in this area. The second part is public debt. The final budget account is linked to the state of public debt only in the part that represents the new debt adopted by the State budget, not the whole state of public debt, because it is the final annual reporting account. I think the state of public debt and the debt report requires a broader debate and a different debate from the final budget itself, but of course the debate can also be combined, but the final account itself does not imply a report on the state of the debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Since there is little time left to discuss, I ask who else would like to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. He's 20 minutes ahead of us. Dr. Bayuk, no one else. Here you go. Five minutes, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Since there's 20 minutes left, I could talk for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u102	No, no, Dr. Bajuk, five minutes every time we split time according to Article 71.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u103	A few comments first at the level of this statement by the Secretary of State. I do not think it is very appropriate to talk about a greater focus on the balance of revenue and expenditure in recent years than on the balance sheet. The fact is, there was no emphasis on the balance sheet because it wasn't there. And that's what the Court of Auditors found out. I am pleased, however, that all these promises made orally by the Minister of Finance have been implemented and that the promises made by the Ministry have also been made, as regards the system-wide corrections in the information system, which are based on the accounts, that this will also be improved and I hope that this will prove to be the case. I just want to mention a few other things I couldn't mention before. One of these is linked to basic development programmes. When we discussed the final account, we saw that some things were a little strange and that the authorised debt was only 272 billion in 2002. We were told in one table that it was 267 billion, and in the other it was 277 billion. So if it was 277 billion, it would be a violation of what the National Assembly decided. The 272 limit, if the government overstepped, which should have asked for permission, did not do so. What was the explanation? The explanation was that this was due to the implementation of the basic development programmes. Of course, the story of basic development programmes has also been the subject of several debates here, it is still dragging and we have problems with it. Since the basic development programme was adopted there somewhere in the late 1990s, provided that it has some specific accounting rules that will apply to it. Instead of writing when an event takes place when it should have been under the law at the time, it is only done when the loan is paid, if something has been bought, that it is purchased into debt. So here we have a concrete case where consumption may have been made in the past, but it showed us in 2002 and caused this imbalance. I still believe that the government should then come and say nicely what happened and ask for permission in this National Assembly to increase its debt. Of course, we can debate this until infinity, but this should happen because these restrictions, which are specifically recorded in the annual ZIPR, are absolute limits and should not be exceeded. Well, of course, there is this solution in this systemic uniqueness of basic development programmes, which should not have happened. In this regard, I must also inform my colleagues that the Court of Auditors has also fulfilled the promise made at those meetings by the then President, Dr Antončič, to review the basic development programmes. The audit was done, but unfortunately, it's a secret thing again, so we can't help but know what-- but isn't it a secret anymore? Well, then we'll discuss it in public when the time comes. Another important question I have to explain is what happened to the NLB purchase. As you know, when we first looked at these things in the report, we were disturbed by the big difference from year to year in the financial claims and investments account. And the explanation was that this was related to the purchase of the New Ljubljana Bank. But I would remember everything because you will remember that I have repeatedly asked the Minister then, now the current Prime Minister to report to the National Assembly on this matter, once he has promised. Then I asked him what was going on with that thing. "Didn't you get it yet?" We never got anything. But then we came to a conclusion, right in the framework of this final account, that this report actually came. But it's not revised as it's supposed to be. I think that this will still be a request to the Court of Auditors, at least on my part, I will take this to the effect that the Court of Auditors will review it. Since the tusso is once again a very clear legal provision, in what sense it is an investment, and in what sense it is actually used for what at least looks like in the report, it is, but I would still like the Court of Auditors to review this, so that we will be clear as to what matters, because it is a very important matter. The next thing that really bothers me is liquidity debt. Of course, every year on 31 December they assure us that the debt we have now imposed in ZIPRO, I think that in the last two years, or even then in 2002, ZIPRO allows the Ministry of Finance, in addition to all the limits of indebtedness, to be in debt for liquidity purposes; only to bring it to zero on 31 December, but we do not know if it is again on 1st or 2nd January at a higher level. So, some overstatement, I'd say, on the left hand side, a limitation on debt, which should also be explained. And finally, if you'll excuse me, ma'am, that's the last point. I would very much like to see them go once and get a clear report on what is going on under certain programmes. Interestingly, in my presentation at the outset, we were surprised to learn why the Court of Auditors in its first table spoke only about the balance and all comparisons of work on items in the balance sheet. If you go into the details and start looking, you can see how the political game is played here in our country's adultery and how the great coalition is maintained. With regard to the budget, certain ministers belonging to other political parties are given an opportunity, and the budget is reduced rapidly when it is not yet so clear in the public. The next step is not to do so. How many debates have been held in this National Assembly on regional development and rural aid! Dear colleagues and colleagues, look at the websites of the National Assembly, how much resources have remained unused in this particular area. Why, we don't know. It would be interesting, though, that this national assembly would also like to debate this matter very much, because everyone wants to write down that something clever has been said, as far as our country is concerned, when we go to see, what is with these means, how sad, how many are useless. Thank you. Thank you for your patience, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate, the debate on the draft act and the proposed decisions. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the National Assembly will also decide on this item in the context of the vote at 15.50. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and invite Members and Members of Parliament to the Chamber at 3 p.m. and 50 minutes, because we will proceed to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u105	Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving to the vote of the National Assembly. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to warn or express my protest, and also look forward to your actions regarding the manner in which the meetings took place this morning, when we began the meeting of the National Assembly and is Vice-President, I can say that he used his position by using the position of Vice-President Dr Miha Brejc at the plenary session today when he expressed his opposition to writing one of the Slovenian newspapers. I would like to point out that the Vice-President has all the legal and other options that give him the right to correction and to reply, but he cannot enforce such a principle through the seat of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. In this context, we can express our disagreement to all 90 Members present, not only over either an article in the media, but also over time and more, but this would mean exploiting our positions or not taking advantage of those options that are otherwise available to us. And if anyone has to know that, the Member or Member of Parliament must know that. I expect you to act in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u107	I'll see what this was all about. It is certainly clear that no political views or personal views can be expressed from the Chair’s position. As you can see, I've never done it myself, and that's, I think, the only possible practice. That's all I can say right now. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies. We're in short notice. That is how we are in the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law in the text would be inconsistent. That is how the National Assembly will now vote on the law. I'll ask you first if you can check the operation of your voting devices. Is there anything wrong with the voting devices? We're voting on the law. 68 present, 53, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on State Administration. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, it is not possible to submit any amendments to the third reading of the amendments. That's why we're going to decide the law now. The competent, governmental and legislative services have not informed me that the text would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law, sorry to interrupt, Comrade Shirtz, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I fully agree with the transfer of the Office to the Ministry of Culture, even more so, personally, I think that the Office of Religion should be able to move into the framework of the Ministry of Culture. But when this law is being considered, I must stress at least something that has not been said in the morning. Exactly two years ago, when we passed the Law on State Administration, our secretariat drew attention to the constitutional and legal system-wide open opportunities created by the establishment of bodies within the framework of ministries with powers to be laid down in the sub-legislative acts, as well as other matters. After the adoption of the law, which we are already amending today, we had a special law on the transfer of the tasks of certain offices or government services to ministries that have regulated the situation of various offices. At the time, the Slovenian language office was not treated or exempted. For the time being, however, it has been shown that the decision to be binding is then a government decision and sufficient to be sufficient, but that a change of law must take place, which we have also warned of when the law on state administration is being drawn up. Of course, this is not a fateful matter and this change is not fateful either, but I would like to point out a completely different fact in my explanation of vote. That the greatest national government specialist is not as sovereign or as sovereign as they appear. And in view of the statement we have also received in the media that it is these specialists who offer the opposition option a programme of reorganisation of the state administration as their political project, if appropriate, that it is worth noting, however, that it is not so sure. One more thing, it has never been, if I return to the state administration, that a list of all the bodies in the composition and government services to be restructured has never been given. They've dripped through the droplets, so we haven't come up with a real review of what changes are going to happen since they're actually or maybe never will. And in the examination of the Law on State Administration, no decision was reached at that time to obtain such justification for the restructuring and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u109	She's Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u110	Is it over?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u112	I didn't hear you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u113	Time doesn't run, but it's an explanation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u114	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u115	Good. Apology accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u116	I didn't understand you. I can only conclude that, otherwise, I will support an unfavorable change, not the way it happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u117	Look, the services are gonna try to figure out why the time to explain is not running. Should I interrupt the session or should I be able to dose for about two minutes according to my feelings? Okay. Would you like a word, Comrade Sok? No, no, no. My friend Jelinčič wanted a word. About two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this law, after all, it is a smart matter, although we do not think that the current Minister is capable of regulating this, such complex activities within his ministry, although this is the most stimulating of those who work there, but not by the number of jobs that have been done. I think it is wise, however, that at least the next Minister of Culture will be better able to regulate this area. Therefore, once again, we will support this, although for the time being we think that the Minister of Culture is doing extremely badly his job and that this matter will only be a burden to her for a few months before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u119	Anyone else want a word? Mag. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u120	I don't personally support such reorganisations. The Slovenian language office is at a turning point, at the transition of integration into the European Union, it is even more needed to have a separate position. That this will only be a cultural pendant is certainly not good, especially under conditions when the Minister does not find time for these matters. In short, I don't think this position and this matter is the most thoughtful. In countries that are less represented in the European Union, they give more emphasis to such issues, but, of course, bigger ones for understandable reasons less. So that I don't support this law, these changes to the law in the state administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u121	Please, colleague Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u123	A little more peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u124	Mr President. [[...]] I will support the proposed change. The recently adopted national programme for culture was foreseen among the first tasks of the Ministry of Culture to use and develop the Slovenian language. I see the transfer of work to the Ministry of Culture as a logical consequence of what we have drawn up in the National Programme for Culture. Concerns about whether the Ministry of Culture is the right address for the performance of these tasks, I think, given that the placement of the office, the former Slovenian language office, has already shown open opportunities for good cooperation in the implementation of those tasks not only of a programming nature. So, all support for the proposal. However, the fact that we did not talk about the abolition of the Slovenian language office or the placement in the Ministry of Culture is linked to the fact that the establishment of this office was carried out only by a government regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u125	My friend Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u126	I wouldn't dare tell you whose fault it is, or only by guilt may it be the office itself, but the inefficiency of this office so far dictates that I vote in favour of this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u127	I don't see any more voice-explanatory applications. The National Assembly will now decide on the law. We're voting. There's 70, 56 for and 4 for. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] The law has been passed. And the point is closed. On the 9th item of the agenda, we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act. We're in second gear. We'll decide on the amendments. May I just inform you that the LDS Member Club, the ZLSD Group and the DeSUS Group have withdrawn one of the amendments. This is how we will vote on the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD and DeSUS to Article 2. Is there any confusion about this? It's the second amendment from the review. The first one is withdrawn, we'll vote on the second. Is there any confusion about the vote? We can decide. I don't see any contracts. We will vote on the second amendment as you have in your review of the LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS to Article 2. We're voting. There's 70, 57 for and 6 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. The amendments are tabled by the same three parliamentary groups in Article 4. Voice explanation, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u128	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to explain that we will not support this amendment. This amendment repeals the fourth paragraph of Article 34. This fourth paragraph of Article 34 reads: "Except for the carriage of other types of passengers by special line transport, it shall be stated, in addition to schools of compulsory children, disabled persons, soldiers and workers not listed in the first paragraph of this Article, to places and places where there is no public line transport of passengers." In other words, this means that, in addition to students, disabled persons, soldiers and workers in rural areas where there is no public line transport, other passengers may also be transported by special line transport. We had a broad debate about this this morning. Such a decision was also taken by the State Assembly Infrastructure Committee. Now, however, we have before us an amendment to remove this possibility from the law that we are changing today. I am sure that such a decision for the Slovenian countryside is bad, as there are no public line transports in many rural areas, and special line transport is organised almost everywhere as a result of the transport of school-bound children. It is good that if we are already paying for compulsory transport of school-bound children to give other citizens and citizens the opportunity to transport them where they are able to do so. Such an amendment, as proposed by the ruling parties of the coalition, is uneconomic, is harmful, is illogical and is not in favour of the Slovenian countryside, so in the New Slovenia Group we will vote against it. If this amendment is adopted, then we will also vote against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u129	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In particular, the Slovenian national party will not support this amendment, for the reason that I have already explained it on behalf of the Slovenian National Party this morning. We do not understand why the original article, published in the Rapporteur, in the amended and updated proposal, we know whose it is, has once again turned into the original proposal in the Rapporteur. According to the Slovenian National Party, this is, I do not know, whether playing a cat with a mouse or with itself, wasting time or electoral propaganda. I don't understand why it's changed twice, and of course we're where we started. That's why we're going against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u131	Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u132	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, I would like to express my disagreement with the proposed amendment and to announce that we will vote against this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party and call on all Members who will decide to reconsider. I would like to remind you that the diction agreed on by the Infrastructure Committee has allowed only exceptionally to open special line transport for other passengers, except for those special lines where general line transport is not carried out. This provision is extremely important in order to repair the chronic poor coverage of rural areas with the possibility of using public liner means of transport, which we witness in the Republic of Slovenia, which poses a major problem in everyday life for people from rural areas.In the organization of practically all municipalities, children are transported to school, which usually does not take place on lines where liners operate. It is incomprehensible to oppose the use of these means of transport by other citizens, even in terms of the so-called protection of liners primarily against foreign competition. I therefore call on you not to support the amendment or to reject this amendment and to maintain the regime adopted by the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u133	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I have a very bad habit of comparing marriage with the life we face every day. When I was working in the infirmary at Vrhnika, an old "mama" from Zaplane came a few times a year, which is a few miles up from Vrhnika in the Polkhogra dolomites. It's a small village where a school bus comes in every day and picks up five, six students, comes in half empty to Vrhnika. She took advantage of it a few times a year, came to the infirmary exactly three quarters to eight and then waited one all morning and came back with this bus back home. This is her only chance to get to Vrhnika to the infirmary. I ask the proponents, what will the state have in mind if this old "mommy" takes away this only option? What will the country have, what will you have out of it?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u135	Did I see Comrade Petan correctly? Please. There's no controversy, just an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Respectable. I'm not going to support this, either, because such an amendment means protecting monopolies. That's true, you wrote it in your explanation. But why should we have that? Look what you wrote down.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u137	Comrade Petan, I will take this time into account. I will only ask my colleagues and colleagues if, like everyone else, they will allow you peace in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u138	Thank you. In addition, a special line transport contract concluded by law between the contracting authority and a list of passengers to be transported by that transport and the collection of random passengers must be prohibited. As a result, public transport cannot be provided to people in remote areas without public line transport. This means that we have a bad marriage because we have a bureaucratic marriage, because we have a stupid marriage, we cannot do as people would expect, but we stick to a law written by a bureaucrat that prevents normal life. In addition, it is stated here that the only meaningful solution in these places would be that, if it were the interest of citizens, co-financing by the State and the local community would be. We already have one transport, that's for students, children, school-bound children, and now we're supposed to do another part of transport funding. That doesn't make any sense. We already have one system that we're paying for, and now we'd have one more because of the stupid marriage we adopted, I think three years ago. It's unacceptable, it's a waste of money. We act like we have money in abundance, we have funding problems, and we act like this, and we make it impossible for people to go to remote places, not towns, but remote places, so that they can come to the local center. That is why, of course, I cannot support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague, may I warn the National Assembly, by mistake, it was divided into a splinter of part of the wrong timeline, which you will all get fixed in a short time. Let's move on. Someone wanted a word. Comrade Auschwitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, there were very few of us in the debate and even the previous article of this law. Members and Members of Parliament have all a very thorough explanation of the need for this amendment and this amendment. We must be aware that we have two arrangements in the field of public transport in Slovenia. The one that is, of course, general and valid is public line passenger traffic. At the same time, we also have traffic arranged for the transport of passengers as a special line or sometimes called contractual traffic. This contractual traffic is subject to specific provisions on who can ride with it, which is very important, the driver in the vehicle carrying out such a driving must have a list of the passengers who can drive this vehicle. The regulation so far is even stricter than the one we will accept if this amendment is also adopted. If the amendment is not adopted, we will, of course, open up a set of problems that will not solve this basic problem, which some colleagues are talking about, for those few truly problematic cases. But these problems do not stem from the road transport law but from purely other problems that will need to be addressed differently. This change, of course, means that there will be several new categories of vehicle, and this is in line with the European Union guidelines, that, of course, the restriction must apply, because those who conclude the contract must know exactly who they drive and when and on which route. In practice, of course, it also happened that contract drivers were when they had a 50-seat vehicle. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If I could just have two more seconds? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u141	Only if you finish your thought, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u142	Twenty more free cities and then, of course, 20 more were picked up at the stations and thus unfairly competed with the operators of concessional line driving. [[...]] I therefore propose that this amendment really be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u143	Time's up. Thank you very much. The National Assembly would now vote on the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the ZLSD and DeSUS parliamentary groups to Article 4. We're voting. 68 in attendance, 31 in and 29 in. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment was adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to Articles 2 and 4 of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to the article? [[No, no, ……]] I take it in the third reading, please? [[...]] Would you like to invest? Then I suggest we stop this point now. It was an announcement of the amendment's submission, and we'll continue tomorrow, after the last point has been completed. This point has been interrupted. Ten. Agenda item - Proposal for a final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2002 We are moving on to a decision on the draft decision, which reads as follows: The final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 shall be adopted. Voice explanation, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u144	Respected on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. In the national party, we assess and believe that people around us are also assessing that public finances are in an unenviable position. With this act, the final bill, which is clearly one of the most important in addition to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and represents one of those instruments that could be retained, alleviates the growing deficit within the budget and the growing public debt burden of all Slovenians, both full-time and underage, regardless of gender and regardless of age. We estimate that the draft budget, which is also assessed by the Court of Auditors, points to too many gaps that have taken place in the past period. We're also sure that this National Assembly, Comrade Kavtičnik, could you please go out and talk? [[...]] Thank you. And I'd like to ask the rest of my colleagues for a moment of listening. We estimate that the shortcomings that have been brought before us, even before the findings of the SNS Group of Members in the framework of the Court of Auditors, are sufficiently indicative of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopts such an act too with its left hand. By rejecting the final budget, the National Assembly would say that there must be an end to the existing farce of public finances. While public finances do have a problem, a fundamental problem in our society, it means that they are of everyone and of no one and that no one in this country is responsible for them. This does not mean that we can take them with our left hand and that this national assembly is at the time of the current term of office, the same as the previous National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u145	Peace in the Hall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u146	the area of public finances was accompanied by a left hand. [[...]] Unfortunately, I have the feeling that even Members of the existing Liberal Democracy, who are constantly chatting while we are adopting one of the most important budgetary acts, are taking this in exchange for the urgency. The National Assembly, once again, would make sense to throw it away. In doing so, I would say that public finances in our country, individual areas of the final account, need to be taken more seriously. I appeal to all Members and Members to reject the proposal so that it will be a good basis for drawing up the draft budget following the next term of office. In the Slovenian Party, we will oppose this kind of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u147	We're moving on to decision-making. Peace in the hall! We are voting on the proposal for a decision, which reads: "A final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 shall be accepted." We're voting. Present 64, 45 for, 13 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 has been adopted. We will now decide on three decisions, in accordance with Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure, on a proposal from the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. We will first decide on the first proposal for a decision. Anybody want to explain their voice? We are voting on the first proposal for a decision by the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances. We're voting. Present 66, 62 for, 2 for. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on a second proposal for a decision. We're voting. 65 present, 36 for and 24 vs. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third proposal for a decision. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u148	Mr President, partly procedural. I would ask you if you could read the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u149	The Committee's report proposes conclusions. "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the Law on Public Servants in the field of disciplinary responsibility. It should extend all limitation periods for the introduction of disciplinary procedures, in particular where infringements are determined by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the Budget Supervisory Service, the Ministry of Finance or another supervisory authority or law enforcement authority. The limitation periods of disciplinary infringements, when identified by those external authorities, shall begin to run from the date on which they are made known to the responsible persons of the direct and indirect budgetary user or other persons of public law. The limitation period for serious disciplinary violations should not be less than 5 years. The Government should also examine, when amending and supplementing the rules on disciplinary responsibility, the inadequacy of the current regime, the implementation of disciplinary measures by the direct chairman and the clearer arrangements of the way in which individual disciplinary measures adopted relate to the employment status: removal of the position, discharge from the title, termination of the employment relationship, as well as the measures of notice and fines." I'm glad I made you happy. Can we decide? We're voting. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u150	Mr President, I publicly resign, irrevocably resigning as President of the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances. But I'll explain it in writing. This attitude of the majority of the National Assembly towards the transparency of public finances in the future, I completely reject. And this is just chapter one, and the second will be when we vote on the President of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u151	The third proposal was not adopted. The point is closed. We're moving to 36. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider three proposals by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors, the election of a candidate for a national representative in Eurojust and the election of a candidate for a first-degree judge in Luxembourg. A member of the committee for the prevention of magi corruption will then swear. Marko Thank you for being appointed to the 43rd extraordinary session, but because of his absence, he was unable to swear. [[Back-up advertising.]] It doesn't sound like there's a disturbance in the hall. We will then proceed to the consideration of the two proposals of the Judicial Council for the election of a candidate to a judicial function and for the appointment of a Supreme Court Judge in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and two cases of a mandate-giving commission, namely the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the success and notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Criminal Section, concerning the proposed indictment of the District Attorney in Ljubljana against a Member of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you in particular that the secret votes on the proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia will be held at the same time, following the closed discussions on all three proposals. First of all, we are taking up the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the President of the Court of Auditors. On the basis of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that Mr Igor Šoltes be appointed President of the Court of Auditors for a period of nine years. Does the representative of the office want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u152	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! Let me briefly summarize the proposal by the President of the Republic for the President of the Court of Auditors. The whole procedure for the appointment of a candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors has been presented in more detail and explained before the Commission for Elections, where all the material you have, including Members and Members, has also been submitted. In a brief explanation, I would like to stress in particular that this is a legal expert who is taking a very good look at the functioning of the Slovenian State Administration, Slovenian legislation, in particular in the field of public finances and public procurement. He actively participated in the drafting of public procurement legislation, where he worked with the institutions of the European Union, of course with the European Commission and its relevant services. At the same time, he has been professionally involved in this area, author of numerous articles and comments on public procurement, which allow for transparent and effective supervision of the procurement system in the Republic of Slovenia, of course also in full compliance with European Union legislation. It is therefore a legal expert who, on the basis of his experience, knowledge and behaviour and professional both national and international references, provides the assurance that the Court of Auditors in its full composition will ensure what the Slovenian Constitution and legislation provide, and this is an effective control over the legality and prudence of the use of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia. We're proposing his approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u153	The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[No, no, ……]] This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, if they so wish. I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u154	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. Voting is a form of democracy where most take such or other decisions on the proposals they are. In our Group of Members, we were pleased that Mr Soltes had announced himself and, of course, we had the opportunity to ask him certain questions. The references that we have been able to read in the President's proposal, which we have received, also underline that secret voting is the best and highest form of democracy. On the other hand, in our group, we are determined to stand behind our words and not hold a fig in our pockets. Mr Soltes and I have spoken and therefore we believe that we will vote for him in the parliamentary group, as we have decided, too. I believe in the obvious that when we vote in secret, we are never obliged to say how we are going to vote, because that is why it is secret. However, I repeat, if we are certain of something, we are behind it. Thank you to those of you who listened to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u155	Thank you very much. My friend Tuck. He's got his buddy Potts behind him, then mag. Smallpox, Podobnik, Školč and Pecze.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. The Court of Auditors is a rather important matter, at least in our opinion. Article 150 of the Constitution states: The Court of Auditors is the highest authority for the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure. That's what the constitution says. The Court of Auditors has never before smelled major public funds managers: Ljubljanska banka, IKB Maribor, Telekom, Slovenian Iron, Talum and so on. The list of large public funds managers is a long list of public funds that the Court of Auditors has not yet smelled. And it didn't revise any state subsidies, like the Ministry of Economy, Labour, Family and so on. We also discussed these subsidies at the last extraordinary session. The problem is that, of course, the composition of the Court of Auditors is such that the President of the Court of Auditors is "God and Beat". And it's not about running a college organ. Everyone else is totally subordinate to him. If the President is elected politically, I will not say clientistically, but politically, partyally, then even the Court of Auditors is so. That's the first note. Not to mention the practice of democratic countries, such as Germany, where collegiate governance is concerned and the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors is appointed from the types of opposition for the purpose of controlling public finances, supervision of gentlemen. Well, with Mr. Soltes, we have quite a wealth of material on the basis of his candidacy. This material says that the secretary of the Secretariat for Housing was the municipality of Šiška, then, of course, the Chairman of the Management Board of the Housing Fund of Ljubljana municipalities, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Housing Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana. Certainly, he was very busy with the meeting's apartments in Ljubljana. It all shows that the allegations made by him made that the head of the civil service in Ljubljana had received or that the leader had provided and assured that each of Mr Soltes's employees had received a staff apartment. As a counterservice, we read, Soltes took care of this gentleman, but his wife got a staff apartment. The documents at our disposal prove that this is unjustifiable. He was also the director of the Government Public Procurement Office. The Ministry of Education is well over 240 million public contracts or contracts that have not been made through public procurement in terms of public procurement. It was signed by Mr. Scholtes. In the intervention of the Minister of Health, we stated and showed evidence where it went, according to our assessment of the unjustified conclusion of contracts without a call for tender. Here is again the signature and permission given by Mr. Scholtes. But the material says that at many lectures and conferences, both in Slovenia and abroad, Mr Soltes presented the issue of public procurement in practice and pointed out the most frequent errors in procedures. He knows about public orders, he gets to know himself, he also taught about it, he also talked about the most common mistakes, but that's not enough, gentlemen. This is not enough for our assessment, and we should follow these instructions. Also really in practice implement, not just talk. It says somewhere, according to them, you'll get to know them, not after what they say. We get to know the man in pieces. The Ljubljana Law Society considers that its commitment is the true commitment of the candidate and the awareness of the importance of rational spending of public finances as a guarantee for its work. It's very well written. But, unfortunately, his actions are such that we cannot support his candidacy, especially because we know how important the President of the Court of Auditors is in our system. And what is happening in the National Assembly is that we do not even want to check the use of budgetary resources or call anyone to account for the obvious suspicions of corruption, and that in doing so we are employing such people by appointing them in these places, in such a frame of mind and in such personnel projects, Slovenia will not be able to dig up from the ever lower points of international assessments of our economy's competitiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u157	Thank you very much. My friend Potts has the floor, followed by his fellow Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors, a colleague and a colleague! The proposal by the President of the Republic to appoint Mr Igor Soltes as President of the Court of Auditors is the fourth for this function. The UK Group of Social Democrats assessed that the proposed candidate was appropriate and decided to support it. In doing so, it took particular note that the Court of Auditors has been without a President for six months; that the responsibility of the National Assembly for the lawful and prudent use of public funds also assumes its responsibility to ensure that the highest institution in charge of public finances provides staff conditions for its operation; that the proposed candidate has not only formal qualifications but also direct experience in areas that fall within the framework of institutions or issues dealt with by the Court of Auditors; and that the proposed candidate has successfully performed the tasks of responsibility so far. Individual charges not proven before the relevant authorities cannot, of course, give rise to any objection to these findings. In particular, the United List of Social Democrats is aware of its responsibilities for appointment as a government and coalition party. The opposition has the opportunity to repeatedly criticise the use of public funds, to challenge the state of public finances in the country, while at the same time preventing systemic or human resources solutions from creating a basis for state institutions to function normally. In the government coalition, however, we must also provide conditions for the functioning of the State and its institutions. The fact that the National Assembly has failed in three attempts, despite a sufficient number of MPs and members from the government coalition, has so far failed to do so, has not been good for the National Assembly and for the government coalition. That is why I hope and believe that this time we will elect a candidate. I therefore expect such an election to be made. And I would like not to call again, to say that the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats - as decided - will also support the candidate for the national representative of Slovenia in Eurojust and for the judge of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg. Besides, I think he's pointing to two more on this occasion. Firstly, in elections and appointments to high and responsible positions in the national authorities in Slovenia and in the bodies of the European Union and Europe, it will be necessary to consider that only formal procedures for good proposals and elections will probably no longer be fully sufficient and that the relevant proponents will also have to consider their substantive role and responsibilities in this human resources and human resources policy in order to enable the State Assembly to carry out its tasks responsibly. And a second time. It points out once again that we have already taken decisions in the National Assembly, but not yet implemented them, and that it is also in the event of the election of the proposed candidates today that it is necessary to amend and supplement laws, which, on many occasions, also inadequately and repeatedly also unregulatedly determine the powers and procedures for appointments in the National Assembly and for elections, to verify and prepare these laws in peace, not at night, an appropriate new solution to ensure a more appropriate role for all in the election and appointment process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u159	Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the New Slovenia Group, we asked ourselves why none of the candidates so far had received sufficient support. The answer is not because of the political commitment of a party, but mainly because the President of the Republic has failed to take into account the necessary expertise, expertise, references in the field of the implementation of audits, the most demanding. This is a key issue, and for this reason, every next candidate who appeared in this table of four, as regards professional references, experience in audit business, has been poorer. That's actually the answer. Not in the way in which the national assembly is drawn up, but in the way of a poorly chosen procedure or inadequate procedure and the inadequate candidates elected by the President of the State during the recruitment process. During the selection, he also had different options. If he had decided solely on a professional basis, then things would have gone through and would not have disputed the political tendency of a particular party. Our Slovenian country and Slovenian public finances and the financial system suffer from some typical diseases. This was also discovered by the Court of Auditors: illegal consumption, lack of transparency, secrecy, open public finances and conflicts of interest. The conflicts of interest that we have heard at the last meeting are an extraordinary meeting of how, in fact, one political personality, a political official can be found in various roles, as the head of the company that acquires funds from ministries, which does business with public companies all without, of course, calls and at the same time represents a government adviser and, as I have already mentioned, an official. Of course, this uncriminality creates problems that the Court of Auditors then identified. This has been a great deal, it has not only been infected with economic operators, we have found ourselves in conflict and troublesome acts also in those who are supposed to care for public well-being, charity and more. We were shown the Red Cross, we were shown the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations, among others. Interestingly, the Court of Auditors did not reach out to the biggest consumers. I'm not gonna count 'em because my buddy's in front of me. Clearly, this is an extremely important function and very much under political attack. If I touch Mr. Soltes' candidate in more detail. The Lord also has legal education in the field of law relevant references. Especially as far as public procurement is concerned. This is certainly not enough, it is not appropriate to manage the Court of Auditors at the time we entered the European Union and should be particularly concerned with the supervision of public finances. Were none of these candidates involved in auditing companies? Of course they were. However, the President of the country did not decide, he sought political support and therefore lost his professional support. And of course the public will resent that. He does not have adequate skills or good practice. Because of us, he can do other important things related to legal education, but in our opinion it is not enough. And so it can happen to us that it will not be elected, this is one option, and the second option is that as far as public finances control is concerned, Slovenia will not embark on a better path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u161	Joseph Skolcz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. The LDS Group decided that 'Urbi et Orbi', as far as anyone can understand, would say that it supports the three nominations of the President of the Republic for the three proposed seats decided today by the State Assembly by secret elections. The President of the Republic carried out a review of the criteria in accordance with the rules adopted by this National Assembly. We trust in this assessment of the criteria that the President has carried out with his fellow Members in the LDS Group. I would like to say, on the side of this debate, that no matter how much individual procedures are liked by individual parliamentary groups, they are regulated by individual laws and are therefore binding on all those involved in these proceedings. So for the National Assembly irrespective of its internal membership, and of course also for the President of the Republic. Therefore, in the case of these candidates, it is not necessary to comment on the possibility of preparing otherwise in any other procedure to recognise those decisions that the National Assembly itself has taken and thus have committed all those involved to an appropriate procedure. The President of the Republic, too. What is difficult for anyone in this room to understand is that the law is over everything and that it is valid for all that it is not possible, even if someone thinks it is foolish, to break, but that we have other instruments at our disposal to arrange it differently. It would therefore be inappropriate to expect that we weigh what may be shown in the context of all these three candidates, political affiliation or inclination. It is not possible to expect the President of the Republic to pass another criterion. This would be wrong and such other criteria would then have to be opposed to the resources available to Parliament. I therefore stress that these three procedures have been properly carried out, that their accident may be possible, that we must repeat them, that it is not, of course, like who would like to show again, some drama, but it is also envisaged in the law that there is no adequate support for a candidate, and from this point of view I find it rather problematic to say that today we are talking about that certain things have been judged more politically through translation, but that it was, say, at the stroke of the profession. I would remind you that, in previous discussions, no one, if we are talking about the President of the Court of Auditors, but especially not the two candidates of Mr Engelman and Mr Squikel, has sworn in many ways to the professional qualities of these two candidates, including those who have opposed them before me today, but that they have not supported them for the political reasons of this decision. They're saying different things today. What is true, the last, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, is that the responsibility for the functioning of the state authorities and the election of representatives to these bodies of the community can only be in percentage proportion to the LDS party, but not in 100%, as anyone would like to show, and from this point of view bears, I will say, every share of their responsibility, as it has received in the elections. Giving up responsibility at the expense of positions means giving up the serious work in Parliament and the trust that everyone has received in the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Sasha Peca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The National Assembly is meeting for the fourth time today with a proposal for the President of the Court of Auditors. From this point of view, I must say that at least in the Group of Members, we do not agree in any way with the statement made by the speaker before me, who said that it was in fact a drama for the procedure of the National Assembly. Far from the fourth attempt being a drama for the procedure of the National Assembly. The fourth attempt represents Calvary for the Court of Auditors. It doesn't matter if we did, and if it took us some time, the problem is that, for more than half a year, the Court of Auditors as an institution, with a constitution, cannot carry out its work, an institution with a constitutional mandate and obligations. This is Calvary, and this should be why we should support the President of the State's proposal for a head or president of the Court of Auditors. The damage done by the National Assembly or by the legislative branch of government in not naming individual proposals coming from the cabinet of the Prime Minister is double. For the first time, it is through the inability of the Court of Auditors to perform its constitutional function. On the one hand, the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, say what we expect from the Court of Auditors. On the other hand, for more than half a year, we do not allow this institution of the Court of Auditors to find someone who could lead this institution at all. According to my assessment, there is, of course, a duality following the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. The problem from the second point of view, or if I have previously identified it as a first problem, is the second problem in this area of appointing the President of the Court of Auditors, that State assembly is losing credibility. I believe that in a number of other areas, but in all the previous three attempts to appoint him, on the basis of a consultation with the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the apparent majority of the 46 votes that would allow the vote to be voted on and thus enable the Court of Auditors to normally begin its function under the Constitution. There were always parliamentary groups who had promised and later showed a fig in their pocket in the vote. And they are not criticising those parliamentary groups that have said no from the very beginning, we will not support them. The problem is in the Liberal Democracy, the problem is in the United List. For anyone who can count in this country knows that the government can be made up of the only group of people who have 46 votes or more. And that appointment just takes 46 people or more. Only so much so that I had to react to the speech, otherwise slower speech by Mr Školč in front of me. I would like to point out that the most important point in the decision of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group was this and it is still necessary for the Court of Auditors to provide conditions for normal work. And one of these conditions of work, of course, is that we give him the staff he has by law. So, at least number one, the President of the Court of Auditors. In the course of the preliminary consideration of this issue in the home labour force, in this case a mandate-based electoral commission, we have proposed, as has been the case with the National Party's representatives in recent times, a slight look past the Rules of Procedure and to allow for a public vote. At least we have nothing to fear from our decisions in the framework of the parliamentary group. We have always and always will make it clear and also show how we voted. Our decisions are not disputed and we are not ashamed of them, unlike you, who are working so hard to keep this vote hidden from the eyes, hidden from the media and disguised to citizens and citizens. However, of course, the proposal of the Slovenian National Party was marked as something that was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. From this place, the question: Do we ever adhere to the rules of procedure in this national assembly in the last year? Is the limitation of speech in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? No, no, no. In the National Party, we will support the proposal, as so far as we have, especially in the light of the behaviour that the President has the right to propose, bears the President of the Republic of Slovenia and carries the responsibilities of proposing. And we all have a responsibility to the Court of Auditors to finally start its function, so at least we should do what we can at this point in time to make the Court of Auditors work if we demand action from it. We will support this principled proposal in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u165	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. Members and Members shall receive the text. Mag. The little guy wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u166	Thank you very much. One more word for it. Professional references to audit procedures are a key reason for the decision. However, the appointment would, however, touch briefly on the role of the candidate, namely the housing fund. He was the president of the Assembly. I'll read it for a while. The alleged irregularities committed by the Ljubljana Municipality Housing Fund in the granting of non-profit rentals led to a number of protests with Ljubljana Mayor Viktorija Potočnik. As a result, the mayor sought an apology from Jožek Hegler as director of the Ljubljana Municipality Housing Fund, for her irregularity in the listing. Mrs Hegler, as Director of the Fund, has also been repeatedly warned of irregularities, and she has also been tasked with reviewing, correcting or monitoring irregularities. Mr Šoltes was chairman of the Assembly of the Housing Fund, under which non-profit housing was distributed. I believe that there is some experience in public procurement, but in such matters a person must be professionally subdued and firm and unswerving. Of course, there are actions that count and influence decisions. As a national assembly, we make political decisions based on professional references or preliminary work, and this is our decision. But we owe it to us to say these things and to make the right decision. Once again, I would like to point out that all the following candidates proposed by the President of the country have essentially less and less met the conditions for professional references. It is obvious that such agony of the Court of Auditors cannot be continued, but it must be the responsibility of those who propose. He had the candidates at his disposal who had the necessary references, and he could suggest them, but he decided on a different route. Slovenia should really take very big steps in this area. In these comparative analyses on the economy, on the functioning of the country, we are in increasingly low places; instead of making progress, we are falling more and more. This, of course, will also prove to be true in the distress of people and, on the other hand, in the enrichment of individuals, especially in the coming period. And I'll tell you, it's not enough that some individuals in this club have that much capital to define themselves as Slovenians. Given that they do not take into account people's hardships or social components, this capital will be able to fly away with them overnight, and Slovenia from these Slovenian capitalists of such an irresponsible nature will have nothing. This is not a good forecast for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u167	Anton Anderlich has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Dr. Andrey Bajuk? [[He's not here.]] Joseph Skull, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u168	I have told my position earlier, but this announced discussion is being used to tell the young, beautiful and swift gentleman that it may be important for the things spoken in Parliament to be said quickly. But in my opinion, understanding the problem is more important. This is where the speed of the young gentleman was canceled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the President of the Court of Auditors. I will end this point because we will vote in secret, in the context of the votes on all three proposals. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect a candidate for the national representative of Eurojust. On the basis of Article 6 of the law on the nomination of candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts to the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed that Mrs Barbara Brezigar be elected as candidate for national representation of Eurojust. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic want to explain the proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u170	Very briefly. Thank you, Mr President, for your word. All the materials are also attached here, and the whole process of candidate and candidate selection is described. In the opinions that we have received from both the Council of Justice and the Government, I would stress in particular that these authorities, in particular the Council of Justice, consider it purely from the professional point of view that the candidate's professional activities ensure that the Attorney General is able to perform successfully the work of the national representative in Eurojust. These are the professional references and evaluations shared by both the government and the proposer, the President of the Republic. We're proposing her confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The mandate-holder commission, as the parent working body, addressed the proposal. He wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] They shall follow the views of the members of the groups. Joseph Scholch LDS. [[He doesn't want to.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the fact that we will also vote in secret in this case, the performance of the representative of the Group of Members, when he speaks in advance of how his Members will vote, to say the least, may be unusual. However, on the basis of the material and the procedure initiated during the re-election of this city, we can only conclude that Mrs Barbara Brezigar would be the only candidate for the tender. It also gave a positive opinion to the Court of Justice that it has all the necessary professional competences, that the competent working body of the National Assembly, when preparing the material for this point, if I am not mistaken, has prepared, without discussion, material for the decision-making process. You could've ended up here. The experience so far is that the leaders of the parliamentary groups have no real background for what happens then. It's in a secret ballot. The Institute of Secret Voting is a very responsible institute. I would not humiliate him or put our responsibility under the secrecy of the vote. I can only say that I will do what I think is right, and so will my fellow Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, that Slovenia will receive a candidate or judge for this place in an important European institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Petty Officer has the floor. Mag. You want a word with me? [[No, no, ……]] I don't think Joseph School wants to be an individual, either. Franci Rokavec is not here. With this, I will conclude the debate and end the point where we will vote together with all these proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed, on the basis of Article 6 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts in the National Assembly, a judge of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg, Dr. Veronica Terstenjak. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this case, too, the procedure was carried out transparently and in accordance with the legislation adopted. The proposed candidate is a habilitated professor of civil law and state theory, and at the same time the author of numerous articles both in Slovenia and in the European space from comparative law, European law and she is also an expert member of the European Commission for the preparation of materials or materials for the preparation of the future European Civil Code, she is a respected legal expert who already operates in the European space and has all the necessary references, knowledge and quality to be able to represent Slovenia successfully in this important institution, so at the European Court of First Instance. We're proposing her confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dr. Matjaž Nahtigal. He wants to speak to the President of the Election Commission. I don't think so. Comrade Skolcz, would you like to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u176	Thank you very much. In this case, two candidates – Prof. Verica Testenjak and Dr. Jura Marn – applied for this place. A very important site, which I think is also important for us, was carried out by the Council of Justice when it gave a positive opinion only on the candidacy of Prof. Dr. Verica Testenjak, who is not only a respected legal expert, but also from this brief material it is clear that he has important international professional references, which are also written in the material that we have received for this item of the agenda. This will also be the reason why, when we decide in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also be able to support this candidature of a peaceful soul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mag. A little something? [[No, no, ……]] Would any of the Members and Members of Parliament be pleased? I don't think so. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals of the President of the Republic. Now I'm really going to ask for the perfect peace in the hall. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors and in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the appointment or election, the National Assembly shall decide by secret vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Chairpersons and four Members or Members elected by the State Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already provided me with proposals for members of the panel who leads the vote, namely colleagues, Rudolf Moge, Branko Kelemina, Aurelio Juri, Sonja Areh-Lavrič. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? I don't see any objection. Then we'll decide on the composition of such a commission. We vote on the composition of the commission. 53 present, 51 for, two for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] The Commission shall be composed. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, three votes shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. I'll explain it one more time. The word "for" or "against" surrounds every voice. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors and in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts, each proposed candidate will be appointed or elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament shall place the completed votes in the ballot box, which shall be at the table next to the voting booths. The National Assembly, we are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament and Members to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. I suggest we proceed or begin our decision at 5 p.m. and 35. In 20 minutes, we need to figure out, count, everything has to be regular. Here you go, Comrade Moge? 20 minutes. It'll take until 17.55. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to reconvene in room 217. At 6:15 p.m., it is anticipated that when the commission is finished, we will continue our work. At 5.35 p.m., we are moving to a vote that will take up to 17.55 p.m. I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u178	Please take your seats. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote. Peace in the hall, please. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 19 May 2004. 82 ballots were distributed. 82 ballots were delivered. Two votes were invalid, 80 votes were valid. 53 Members and Members voted against by 27 Members and Members. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 27.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was appointed President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, Igor Šoltes. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] He's been appointed for nine years, from the day he came to function. [[...]] I ask Mr Igor Soltes, President of the Court of Auditors, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u179	I swear to do my work in accordance with the Constitution and the law fair, conscientious and impartially. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u180	On behalf of the National Assembly, I wish you all the best in the performance of your important duty. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for candidate for national representative in Eurojust. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 19 May 2004. 82 ballots were distributed. 82 ballots were delivered. One ballot was invalid, and 81 votes were valid. 64 Members and Members voted against by 17 Members and Members. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mrs Barbara Brezigar was elected by the majority of the votes of all Members. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for candidate for Judge of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 19 May 2004. 82 ballots were distributed. 82 ballots were delivered. It wasn't invalid. There were 82 valid ballots. 71 Members and Members voted in favour. 11 Members and Members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members of Parliament, Prof. Verica Trstenjak was elected as Judge of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg. [[....]] [[Let's hear it.]] On behalf of the National Assembly, I also congratulate both Mrs Barbara Brezigar and Mrs Prof. Verica Trstenjak on their successful work. Mag. Marko, thank you. Is she here? Mag. Marko Thank you was appointed as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission at the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly on 20.4.2004 and did not swear before the National Assembly on the grounds of official restraint. That's why I'm asking the Mag now. Marka Praiselo, a member of the anti-corruption commission, swears before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u181	I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my duties, to act conscientiously and honestly and always to exercise the interests of the common good before private interests. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u182	We take the motions for a decision on the election to a judicial function. A proposal to elect a candidate for judicial office at the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Novi Gorica was submitted by the Council of Justice for its consideration. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the President of the Election Commission? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would the representatives of the parliamentary groups like to take the floor? The MPs and the MPs? I conclude the debate and move to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Andrejka Luznik to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 57 present, 49 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The proposal to appoint a judge to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has been submitted by the Council of Justice for consideration. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[No, no, ……]] He wants to speak to the President of the Election Commission? [[No, no, ……]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Discussion of Members and Members. There is no debate, so we will proceed to the vote. We're voting. 61 present, 49 in, 3 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are now at the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for success. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder commission proposing that the member, Mrs Romana Logar, be dismissed and that the member be appointed by Dr Edo Pirkmajer. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Comrade Tsukati, please, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u183	Actually, it's more of a thought. In fact, Mrs Romana Logar wrote that she was leaving for personal reasons. Immediately thereafter, she wrote: "At the same time, I inform the National Assembly that the Supervisory Committee has not carried out its tasks in the period so far, as it has met at only one meeting, and that it has not been convened until one year since its appointment on 7 June 2002." The Supervisory Board was appointed in 2001 and has not yet met - I don't know why we call the Supervisory Boards if they don't work. It seems to me a little bit in a sense in a mockery of the rule of law, and I also don't understand that the National Assembly is short-circuiting this fact, a little bit contemptible, as if everything is fine, as if everything is running well. I think that as far as the supervisory functions in the country are concerned, particularly important, there is a really large lack of political will. We will confirm the derogation that, for personal reasons, it is written, we will also confirm the candidate's wish that at least some supervisory functions will be exercised in this corrupt country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u184	There is no Master Drobnič, followed by a debate between Members and Members. There are no applications, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, on the discharge of the Member and Please. [[...]] Let me explain to you who announced the debate. The debate was announced by Master Janez Drobnič and Dr Andrej Bajuk. No, no, if it's my fault, I'll fix it, I'm sure I still am. Did you sign up, Comrade Anderlich? Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u185	It's no big deal, because in the meantime, you also gave one point that wasn't in the review, which was also a surprise for me, before the appointment of judges, namely the arrest that happened without being in any kind of review. And also under point 36 is the announcement under point a. How you arranged it and wrote it, I don't know, but it's obviously a lack of preparation for the session. I'm giving up this debate. But I would ask that then - and this is procedural - anyone who makes a claim in the National Assembly, that this country is corrupt to prove it, bring any evidence or you respond and that in this way do not insult and malign the country, the institution of this country, citizens, citizens and so on. This is your duty, Mr. President. And these insults occur from the sitting to the meeting, from the point to the point. If a member of the Supervisory Board did not wish to act on this Supervisory Board, he may withdraw. Like any member of the Supervisory Board, she had the opportunity to give an initiative to meet the Supervisory Board. That is why, of course, I am not responsible here, and I am not obliged to listen to the quantification that this is a corrupt state, because some supervisory committee where a candidate from a foreign position has acted has sat down and has not done her job of now listening to these insults here. And it's your duty to warn them, not that I have to answer to my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u186	I'm not putting a replica into the debate because you weren't appointed. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a Member and the appointment of a Supervisory Committee of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Success. Peace in the hall. We're voting. 61 present, 57 for, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Discussion of the notice from the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Section, concerning the indictment submitted by the District Attorney in Ljubljana against the Member of the National Assembly of Zmaj Jelinčič Plmenite. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Division, for consideration of the meeting. The Commission has considered this as a mandate-holder. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision that is being put forward. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I will vote against the decision drawn up by the Election Commission, in which our colleague, Mr Jelinčič, recognises immunity. I believe that, for a number of reasons, it can be controversial and not to say, a case-by-case decision. The rules we have laid down regarding the approval of immunity in this assembly are quite precise, and we have fully respected them in this mandate. The recognition of immunity for the offence of reading a crime, injuring a foreign matter, under Article 224, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code, cannot be the way it would be appropriate for me to speak on my behalf that the National Assembly recognises immunity. I do not think that this would affect the work of the National Assembly, but it would have an impact on the reputation of the National Assembly. For see, if a simple citizen would cause the same potential crime, this is only a matter of procedure, then they would expect the law enforcement authorities to carry out these procedures. This is always required by the National Assembly, so it must also require equality for the members of the National Assembly in granting immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u188	My friend Jelinczych. Would you like a word, Comrade Jelinčič? Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To explain what it was about. On my nose I came to the meeting, all the parking spaces were occupied, I parked on the other side of Beethoven, on the sidewalk, I gave up the board of the State Assembly, which was here, it was held with people who had no contact with the National Assembly, so it was no different. Then they cuffed the car, and it was just me, nobody else, and of course I drove off, parked the car, while the fox flew away, and the cuffs weren't found. I don't know where he is. The fox is a living animal. The charge that the court has drawn up is 21 pages long, the charge against Running Man, I think it's 15 pages long. It's obvious what this is about. As for decency, Mr Školč, I think we should have enough to sweep before our own threshold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u190	Anybody else want to explain their voice? My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u191	The fact that the fellow Member of Parliament, Mr Victory Jelinčič, has said is true. I can say this from my own experience. I am grateful that I have the opportunity to use the parking space at the workplace, but I myself have not had the opportunity to take advantage of what I was given, not many times, at least five times. I believe so, I was present at the time, and I think it would be fair for all my colleagues. Really, what the talker said earlier, I don't want to argue, we all have the same rights, but some of us don't go to work in this building and some of us aren't in time trouble and we can't even think of anything right now. I was present at the time, I am a witness, and I believe that this is true, so I think it would be fair for all of us colleagues and colleagues to acknowledge the immunity of a fellow Member because he really had nowhere to park and really came to this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u192	Please, Comrade Viceroy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My friend Jelinčič is a capsule, sometimes he makes something up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u194	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u195	Sometimes Mr Jelinčič makes something up, so I don't take it for pure gold, what he says, but this time I honestly believe him because eight years I park here and sometimes it happens to me that the parking spaces aren't enough and I've already parked myself because of the inappropriate space where the warden directed me. But then when I came back, I had only a note up, so far foxes haven't, and of course I'm not what Jelinčič is, and I settled that account and paid it. That is why I believe that it would be necessary, as my colleague Tsukjat now said, when to say a word about the fact that the parking spaces reserved for us here are not always available, so in this case I will vote for immunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u196	My friend Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u197	Thank you. I took Mr. Peterlet's place on the committee, and I voted in favour. I will now vote in favour to explain my vote. Since it is not an offence and if a Member is not able to exercise immunity for such minor matters, it is said that this institution is not necessary at all, but let us put an end to it not for one fox. On the other hand, I do not know what the outcome of the vote would be if it were a member of the government coalition or a member of a car with a Ljubljana registration. I had a similar experience myself, and I didn't have handcuffs, but I had to go to Wich to get a car because he took a spider and I paid for it and so on. In fact, this matter should be saved in the interest of all of us. The parking problem still remains. I will therefore vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u198	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The territory or people who have power in Slovenia is corrupt to the end and this [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u200	Peace, please. My friend Kelemin. I have to warn you one more time. When qualifications are given, it is necessary to have arguments for them or the fastest way, then you have to argue them, otherwise you have to apologize for such qualifications.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u201	I just want to explain that this corruption goes also to Mr Jelinčič Trimenite, where they have written such a long indictment for such a trivial matter, because the hunters of all these people involved in the preservation of power and corruption are long. I'll prove it because I have the paperwork on the first chance you let me do it. That is why, of course, in this case, I will support Mr Jelinčič the Trinitarian and I do not think that he should be judged for such banal things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u202	My friend Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u203	I too will vote for immunity because I know Mr Victory well, and I know that he is disciplined, non-conflict and decent, and it is clear that the police have come after him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-19-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u204	It's a decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, the criminal procedure of 29.3.2004, operative number 1K655/2002, relating to the defendant's motion from the District Attorney of Ljubljana dated 26.11.2002, which states that he is to commit the offence of injuring a foreign matter under Article 224(1) of the Criminal Code, recognises the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr Zmagu Jelinčič Trimenite and does not allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. We're voting. 56 present, 30 for, 16 versus. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item. 15. The agenda item provides for a defensive proposal for a law extending the mandate to the judges of the jurors in the working and social courts. This is a proposal for a law following an emergency procedure. The bill was tabled by the government. Are you going to take part in the session? You want to explain? [[No, no, ……]] I'm sorry, you're not registered. The draft law was examined by the Internal Policy Committee, which informed the assembly in writing. It is now followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, if they so wish. Comrade Petan? [[He's quitting.]] A colleague of Zupanov's? [[He's quitting.]] There's no buddy Trofenic. My friend Wolf? [[He's quitting.]] A friend of mine? [[So do I.]] Since no amendment had been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, amendments could not be tabled in the legislative text. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. As stated in the third reading of the amendments, it is not possible to submit, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We are voting on the proposal for a law extending the mandate of judges to judges in the labour and social courts. We're voting. 61 present, 51 for, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. I am adjourning the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice night!
