ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As I am informed, only two colleagues today cannot attend due to other obligations, namely colleagues Kebrič and Jakič. Everyone else is supposed to be there. I also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whom I welcome very much. As usual, we will first set the agenda for this extraordinary session. The draft agenda was prepared in accordance with the first and second paragraphs of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda so that the State assembly can set a agenda. First of all, I ask everyone to verify that his voting device works flawlessly. Is there anything wrong with the voting devices? Okay, then we'll vote on the agenda. We vote on the agenda. For the first time, we failed because of too little attention. There are enough colleagues and colleagues in the hall. Secondly, I shall put to the vote the establishment of a agenda. 54 in attendance, 42 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I'm guessing the agenda is set. I propose that today we decide by voting on each point immediately after the end of its consideration. This is usually the case with regard to the issue of the promulgation of constitutional laws. However, at the last point, if you agree, we would order a fifteen-minute break, after the end of the last debater, because we do not have a timetable - that is, there is a majority of 46 or more - or ten minutes of rest after the last debater, so that the colleagues and colleagues can gather. Since we do not have a meeting, it is not possible to know in advance when the vote will be accurate. On the other hand, we will vote on the first three points, on the rulings on the declaration, and on the ten-minute suspension after the last debate or the conclusion of the debate at the last, point 4, on the report of the Constitutional Commission on the constitutional audit procedure in the area of regionalism. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE DECLARATION OF THE ESTABLISHMENTAL LAW ON AMENDMENT 43. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its meeting on 15.6.2004, the National Assembly adopted a constitutional law amending Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 182 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall declare the Constitutional Law no later than eight days after its adoption, unless at least 30 Members request that the amendment of the Constitution be submitted for approval to voters at the referendum. The request for such an invitation to tender has not been submitted and the National Assembly may today declare a constitutional law amending Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Law declares the national assembly by adopting a decree on the declaration. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the assembly. I also welcome the representative of the government, with us Dr Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior. First, does Comrade Podobnik want procedural? No, no, no. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. Some colleagues and colleagues have already told me that they will withdraw from the debates announced. Would any of those who wanted the word to present the views of the Members of the House want a word? I guess not. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Would any of the Members and Members who have been or have been reported for discussion have a word? No one, either. Then I conclude the debate. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree declaring a constitutional law amending Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll read the decree. Decree declaring the constitutional law amending Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: The Constitutional Act amending Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 15.6.2004, is hereby proclaimed. We're voting. 66 present, 63 for and none against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to 2. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE DECLARATION OF THE ESTABLISHMENT LAW ON AMENDMENT 14. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its meeting on 15.6. this year, the National Assembly adopted a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 182 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall declare the Constitutional Law no later than eight days after its adoption, unless at least 30 Members request that the amendment of the Constitution be submitted for approval to voters at the referendum. The request for a referendum has not been submitted and the National Assembly may today promulgate a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Law declares the national assembly by adopting a decree on the declaration. I ask whether any of the members of the group who has applied to present their views would like a word? None. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Does any of the Members and Members who have been declared for discussion want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. It reads as follows: Decree declaring a constitutional law amending Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Act amending Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 15.6.2004, is hereby proclaimed. We're voting. 69 present, 67 for and none against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and the point has been closed. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the defence motion for a decision declaring a constitutional act amending Amendment 50. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its meeting on 15.6. this year, the National Assembly adopted a constitutional law amending Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 182 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall declare the Constitutional Law no later than eight days after its adoption, unless at least 30 Members request that the amendment of the Constitution be submitted for approval to voters at the referendum. The request for a referendum has not been submitted and the National Assembly may today promulgate a constitutional law amending Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Law declares the national assembly by adopting a decree on the declaration. I ask whether the representative or representatives of the parliamentary groups wish to present their views? No, no, no. Do colleagues and colleagues want the word “declared”? No, no, no. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. It reads as follows: Decree declaring a constitutional law amending Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Act amending Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 15.6.2004, is hereby promulgated. We're voting. 69 present, 65 for and none against. (For the vote was 65.)(Nobody.) We're moving to four. At the time of the day, this is the report of the Constitutional Commission on the preparation of the proposal for a constitutional act amending Amendment 140. ARTICLE OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND PROPOSAL OF POSITIONS ON THE DRAFT ESTABLISHMENT LAW FOR AMENDMENT 121, 140. IN 143. MEMBER OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA At its 42nd extraordinary meeting on 6.4. this year, the National Assembly adopted a position amending Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the position adopted, the Constitutional Commission has examined the proposal for a constitutional law, which has not been adopted by a majority of the votes required, and has therefore prepared a report to the assembly and at the same time submitted its views on the draft constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution. I suggest we hear representatives of the Group. Here I would like to point out that we will vote on this 10 minutes after the entire debate is concluded. I would like to remind you that we will also vote on the amendment. This warning also applies to the vote on the amendment, as the same majority is needed there. 46 or more. So when we come to the vote on the amendment, we'll order a 10-minute recess. The following is a presentation of the positions. Mr Podobnik on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u2	Thank you, President. We expected a government representative to come forward as well. Let me just pass for a moment. Wants a word Then I would, in order I would first [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u3	Yeah, yeah. Minister, you have the floor. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to remind you that this is a very important decision that has been going on for many years and is a condition for the initiation of the country's landscapes. Since 1998 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a law on the provinces, with concerns about regulatory arrangements, for prior treatment and in 1998 the Commission of the National Assembly on Local Self-Government adopted conclusions advocating the amendment of the Constitution as a condition for the continuation of regionalisation. This is said to be the decision of your predecessors of that mandate that the condition for the start of the regionalisation of Slovenia is the amendment of Article 143 of the Constitution. At the same time, it must be said that there are a number of challenges and initiatives in Slovenia for the introduction of the provinces. By 2000, as many as five laws had been introduced into the National Assembly to establish individual provinces. The National Assembly also adopted one of these, to establish the province of Koroška, in its first reading. As early as July 2001, the Government adopted a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by paragraphs 143, 140 and 121, which is linked to regionalism. In the meantime, a project, extensive, comprehensively set up, was already presented in March 2002 on the basis of government-accepted starting points, and also in the public debate, an evaluation project for the implementation of the regionalisation of Slovenia. The aim of six consultations in Slovenia was to present and discuss the project of regionalisation of Slovenia in 2002. The type of expert studies was prepared during this time, and in June 2003 the Ministry of the Interior issued an expert paper, a comprehensive project of regionalisation in the Republic of Slovenia, which was also received by all Members and could then, not in the form of formal discussions, but informally become acquainted with it. What we are discussing today is, as it is said, the Government prepared in July 2001, but in July 2003 it also adopted amendments and additions to this proposal when it discussed and adopted a programme for effective entry into the European Union. With regard to the amendment to Article 143, a supplement was adopted, on the basis of discussions and rather patient and in-depth coordination, not only within the coalition and especially with the Slovenian People's Party, but also with the other parties to this National Assembly, which went towards finding a compromise solution, in order to achieve the greatest possible consensus in the country in the establishment and other legal issues relating to the establishment of landscapes, such as financing. Thus, a two-new addition to the constitutional proposal was adopted in 2003. By the opinion of the municipalities on the establishment of the provinces and by 2/3 majority on the adoption of the law establishing the provinces. Further coordination with the Slovenian People's Party in particular has shown that there is a need to seek consensus on other issues as well, or to provide a higher majority, particularly in the area of financing of the provinces. This is why today's proposal is complemented and covers a two-thirds majority not only for the Lands Act, i.e. for a law that will determine the number of provinces and the scope, the territorial scope of the provinces, but also for a law that will determine how to finance. With this, we have somehow managed to reach a compromise with the Slovenian People's Party, which specifically requested this and I believe that we can rely on such a compromise to support a difficult qualified majority in the process of adopting this constitutional change. I would like to refer to the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which proposes the consent of municipalities for the establishment of the provinces, two thirds of municipalities or municipalities comprising two thirds of the population. Such agreement is not acceptable to us. The reasons are: in this case, if the municipalities had the right to give consent to the establishment of the provinces, they would actually become co-formers of another level of local self-government, which is contrary to the European Charter on Local Self-Government and the concept, just the concept that is now in the constitution and we want to change it now, namely that the provinces would be just some form of inter-ethnic cooperation. We would have stayed in some other way, in fact, where we are now, and because, generally speaking, it is an obstacle to the enforcement of the provinces in the country. According to our belief or judgment, the congregations could unanimously condition the establishment of their own province and there is a legitimate fear that it would be difficult to restrict the landscapes in numbers and thus cause the establishment of a large number of provinces, which is incompatible with the established concept. And one more thing. Such an amendment, such an arrangement, which would give municipalities the right to consent, even though only a two-thirds majority or municipalities of two-thirds of the population could, in fact, in a theoretical case, give one municipality which would disagree an opportunity to give up its consent and thus stop the whole process of introducing provinces in the country. The theoretical example was that if, for example, there were three municipalities that formed the province and did not give consent to the province, there would be more than one third of the population, so that the other two municipalities would not reach two thirds of the population. In such a case, one municipality itself could reject the whole process of establishing the provinces in the country, which is not the basis for effective regionalism in Slovenia. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, I propose that you accept the report in the basic text so that you do not accept this amendment and therefore support the constitutional amendment, which is an indispensable prerequisite, which is a "conditio sone qua non" in order to achieve the regionalisation of Slovenia as we wish, as we do in the project that has already been created, also publicly presented, the matter is set. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u5	Before giving the floor to my colleague Podobnik, I should like to say that the Italian and Hungarian national groups have just tabled an amendment to the Commission's position on the text of the third position, which provides for the text of Article 143 of the Constitution, a new fourth paragraph should be added. You will receive the text of this paragraph on the bench, and you will just share it. However, I personally do not believe that this would require the convening of a constitutional commission. I think that the National Assembly can decide on this, unless, of course, a qualified majority of Members and Members would feel otherwise. After all, it is a constitutional audit procedure and we should take a step more than one step less. So please think about it. While I, as President of the Constitutional Commission, believe that after all the years of debate today the National Assembly can decide on the agenda, despite having received the last moment of the amendment of this parliamentary group. Comrade Janez Podobnik, your word for the presentation of the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u6	Thank you for saying so, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! The amendment we have just received on the bench is, in a substantive sense, a very important amendment. If memory does not deceive me, it is very much the same as it was proposed in one of the previous stages of adopting constitutional changes in the area of the introduction of the second level of local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u7	Comrade Spodnik, here you are referring to the SDS amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u8	I am talking about the amendment of the delegation of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. To him, therefore, the views of the Group of Members, I regret that I cannot tell you about him. However, it is a very important amendment in a substantive sense. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, after the performance of Dr. Bohinc, I myself have suggested that he come before me, my performance will be more difficult. But I must say, Dr. Bohinc has taken the event very well in recent years. Almost three years will be what the government has proposed in the constitutional change procedure also in the area of the introduction of a second level of local self-government. And it is true that, like then, we, as a government party, have slowly succeeded in convincing fellow Members of other government parliamentary groups, so that it would be good, especially when it comes to the question of whether we will establish provinces that could be contrary to the will of people to set up a very important protector. And we have seen it in that the law that sets the seat and the number of provinces to be adopted by a two-thirds majority. And it is also true that we have proposed an additional guardian, that also a law that will determine the jurisdiction and financing of the provinces, that this one also has an important protector, that most are more than 46 or the common majority. But allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to express my principled position. For the first time, it would have been the case since the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution itself, amended the Constitution in order to adopt it in some of the key solutions in an ecstatic manner contrary to the opinion of the section. The section strongly opposes the proposed changes. In a special memorandum of 10.5.2004 again Dr. Šmidovnik and Dr. Stane Vlaj discuss this. Another time. It has proved to be good for the country and it is also highly recommended for the National Assembly that the amendment of the Constitution be adopted by as much political consensus as possible. There is no political consensus on amending the Constitution which will allow for the actual introduction of a second level of local self-government. Following Dr Bohinc's performance, which shows that the government does not support the amendment proposed by its fellow Members to the SDS, it is clear that there will also be no consensus today. Third time. For us, the key question is whether any changes to the Constitution, as proposed by these opinions on constitutional law, would prevent Slovenia from obtaining provinces that would be contrary to the will of the people. These are three questions that we have tried to answer in the Group today. With regard to the section, we can only examine the opinion of eminent experts who have covered this area of local self-government in Slovenia for many years. In this group, we respect older, experienced professors. There might be something more missing in this group, I wouldn't say, younger experts, but maybe the students of these professors are just one or two of them. Perhaps these members of this expert group would also have a slightly more flexible professional position, because I, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, saw that from the beginning there was an expert group - let's admit, and the tone gives them Dr. Šmidovnik, tone, expertise and others - was very unfavorable with any solutions that would also write in the constitution that, however, there is a guardian that would allow the provinces in Slovenia not to be created in any way contrary to the will of the inhabitants. So, about the expert group, I said my point of view. With regard to political consensus, however, we estimate that it will not be available today and we would not think it wise to adopt positions of 46 or 47 votes, which means, of course, that in 14 days at the last meeting of the National Assembly in this configuration, a majority will not be needed to change the constitution in this area, and this would mean that much of this work that we have tabled is in vain. Therefore, we invite our fellow Members to consider together whether it would be wise to conclude that we have not reached a political consensus and that this difficult task, a change in the constitution in the area of the introduction of a second level of local self-government, should be left to our colleagues in the next reference, this is the political consensus. The third question, which is most sensitive to me as a Member, is also to me, as the former mayor, who represents the will of the citizens - the mayors, the municipal councils and/or Members of the National Assembly. Everybody. Sometimes it seems to me that we simply forget that we are Members of all the people. The two-thirds majority, which would adopt a law on the establishment of the province and its seats, represents a very large fuse and a large mandate for this or the following reference by the national assembly to represent the will of the people through elected Members and Members. For I, as a Member, am presenting their will, but it is true that the electoral system in force could achieve that there might not be any representatives in the national assembly from a wider area. But there is still no argument to say that only the fact that only Members decide on the establishment of the provinces already means that it could be created contrary to the will of the inhabitants. But - and now I am moving to the second part - in our opinion, even in the opinion of the party I am leading, it would be good for the National Assembly, if it decides to change the Constitution in the field of local self-government, to find ways of writing down the consent of the municipalities in this amendment. That is why today the decision of the parliamentary group will also be linked to the vote on the amendment, as proposed, on the consent of the municipalities. At least two thirds of the municipalities of each province or two thirds of the population of each province are proposed. We are aware that this solution is complicated, we are aware that such a solution can pose a major problem in the next term when the provinces are being established, but we have one of the best experiences, but it is. When agreement on the new European Constitution has been found to be a problem in recent months, it has been a key issue with which majority will be decided by the European Council. And interestingly, there, too, they have come up with a very complicated way, but with it they have united themselves, and this was a fundamental argument that even the European Constitution has been adopted and will now go to the Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u9	My colleague Roberto Battelli has the floor to present the position of the delegation of the national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I support the regionalisation of Slovenia and thus the change of the Constitution. I, along with my colleague Pozsonec, have tabled an amendment to Article 143. This amendment did not come at the last moment, but was tabled in a similar content as early as January this year and was also voted in a similar content once in this national assembly. Of course, he was not accompanied by any professional opinion and no one took it seriously; I don't know why. However, if this country is serious about regionalisation and, in particular, if it is serious about the protection of national communities, this amendment will be adopted. If not, this transfer around the protection of the national communities will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is a statement from a colleague of Lenko, who will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members! The amendment to the Constitution relating to the formation of landscapes has been followed by a very varied history of debates, different perspectives, arguments, both legally and sociologically, to which it has contributed both to the profession and to the policy, both at state and local level. An in-depth analysis of the constitutional proposal to amend the Constitution also deserves to be made, given that accelerated democratisation at all political levels of decision-making and its implementation of the decentralisation process is among the common values in Europe. And the creation of a second level of local self-government certainly promotes democratisation and decentralisation. The urgent consequence of globalisation and sustainable development is the process of localisation. This process is inappropriate, necessary and useful in ensuring the country's contact with people living in a specific area and, on the other hand, we allow people to decide on public matters that are being touched daily. The main obstacle to the fact that the new constitutional arrangements have not been regulated in twelve years is the text of Articles 143, 141 and 121 of the Constitution, which define the province as a form of voluntary international cooperation, for which there has been no interest so far. Thus, Slovenia cannot transfer, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, to a lower level of decision-making of all those State powers, to the provinces which can be carried out at a lower level. There are many consequences to the provinces or to their territorial arrangements. By delaying the regionalisation process in Slovenia, developmental differences between individual geographical areas are deepened, thus preventing the equal integration of such parts into Europe. The absence of appropriate constitutional arrangements in the design of landscapes prevents cooperation with neighbouring and other countries. It is limited in the use and consumption of the European Union's Structural Development Funds. The number of landscapes, the location of individual landscapes and the identification of areas also affect all further development of the administration or its territorial reorganisation. Even because of this process of regionalisation, we must no longer delay and the change in the Constitution is just the first step towards it. The regions are one of the foundations of democratic states, so the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The problem of creating regions is in the face of existing constitutional arrangements, the existence of Article 143, which is insurmountable. In the DeSUS Group, as we have already mentioned today, we have advocated the establishment of the provinces from the outset and, on the other hand, we agree that the preparation of the legislative proposal would require caution in order for the provinces to have the right content, as well as the issue of material resources, is an extremely important part of the regionalisation project. The relationship between the country and the country, as well as the relationship between the province and the congregation, should be considered. Since we believe that it is essential for the country's democracy to operate and is protected in units closer to the people, we are in favour of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons' Group's proposal to amend the Constitution, which makes it possible to create landscapes. Nevertheless, we propose to examine the comments of the expert commission. It is true that a two-thirds decision, both in a law that would establish the province and in a law that would significantly make it difficult for certain funding to transform the State territory into a smaller unit, a province. In the DeSUS Group, we consider the qualified majority to be too demanding a condition. This could lead to the establishment of small landscapes, which, in our view, would be harmful. On the other hand, we must somehow prevent already-formed provinces from retaining their original form, except in cases where the grounds for conversion are indeed justified. We are therefore in the DeSUS Group for Slovenia to finally form the provinces, but we believe that we need to weigh the proposal very much before we adopt it in a given form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Bojan Kontic will present the position of the United Nations Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the United Social Democrats Group, from the very beginning of the decision-making process related to local self-government, we represent the view that the provinces, as an intermediate member of local self-government, are urgently needed between one country and a large number, too many municipalities on the other. This is the only way to prevent further centralisation and concentration that we witnessed during the reform of the state administration and the introduction of the current local self-government. In the hope that the knowledge of the needs of the provinces exceeded the framework of the discussions within the profession and that there is a majority consensus in Slovenia on the importance of regionalisation for the further polycentric development of the country, we have always unanimously supported the proposal to amend the three articles of the Constitution, which would allow the adoption of a law that would fully regulate the regionalisation of our country. Today we are considering and adopting a proposal for positions that are some kind of compromise to meet the required number of Members and to allow for the amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution. This is, of course, a compromise that is not ideal and is not what we wanted in the parliamentary group, but it is certainly a step forward. For we all know that the Constitution will prescribe 2/3 of the majority of the present members of the National Assembly for the Adoption and Financing of the Law on the Provinces and the Law on the Establishment of the Provinces, which will determine the area, seat and name of the province, in fact constitute an obstacle that the National Assembly in the future will only find difficult to overcome. This majority, on the assumption of full presence, means a majority which is the same as the majority for the adoption or amendment of the Constitution. After today's introductions, it is clear to me that this compromise is not what would lead to a constitutional change. In its opinion, the section of the Constitutional Commission also drew attention to the danger of constitutional arrangements by which the provinces would be set up by law requiring 2/3 support from members present, including a warning that such a provision in the Constitution would make it difficult or even prevent any subsequent territorial change between the provinces, even if it would prove justified or necessary. A major debate has also developed on the proposal that the Constitution should stipulate that prior to the decision on the establishment of the provinces, the National Assembly must obtain the consent of the Municipal Councils of at least 2/3 of the municipalities of the province concerned, with a population of at least 2/3 of the inhabitants of each province. Members of the United List of Social Democrats in the Constitutional Commission of this proposal have not supported it for a number of reasons. The first is in the majority, which will be prescribed for the adoption of both laws and will force the drafters of the laws establishing the provinces to harmonise the law to the extent that it will receive the necessary majority of votes in Parliament, which, of course, will not be possible, given that Members and Members come from different backgrounds. The other one. In the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposed solution, which obliges the State Assembly to call on the municipal councils to give their opinion enough. The fear of a decision taken by the National Assembly that would be opposed by most municipal councils within the province is, according to our assessment, superfluous. A land that would be imposed on people and could only be seen as a cost, not its advantages, will never come to life, even if the legislator would legitimize it. This is not the purpose of those who believe that Slovenia needs provinces. The other reasons why we opposed this amendment at the Constitutional Commission meeting and why we will also today oppose the amendment that was tabled today or received on the bench was submitted by Dr Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we have therefore decided to support efforts to change the constitution and enable the formation of landscapes by law, which will fully regulate regionalisation in Slovenia. This will create landscapes as autonomous local communities that will carry out the tasks of wider local importance beyond the capacity of the municipalities and at the same time the matters of regional importance that are defined by law. In addition, they carried out a certain part of the tasks of the state administration. It will be possible to adopt laws or laws that will fully regulate the establishment, jurisdiction, financing and organisation of the provinces. This would therefore mean that such a secondary local government, which is not the right term, will not only be limited to inter-agency cooperation. Such an established province will, as I have already said, be an intermediate rate between the government and the municipalities. The principle of subsidiarity and decentralisation and better regional development will therefore be applied. These are the contents that are close to us in the United List of Social Democrats and we will support their implementation. The desire to establish the provinces is present in Slovenia from the very change of the political system. At the time of our adoption of our Constitution, we have been working to make regional regulation a mandatory component of constitutional regulation. That this is necessary is evidence of local initiatives following the establishment of the provinces. At the same time, there is also a so-called project of more coherent regional development, for which there is a legitimate fear that it will break in the determination of so-called development regions. If we had a province, there wouldn't be any trouble. The proposed positions, as adopted by the Constitutional Commission, will therefore be supported by the United Nations Social Democrats Group, although we are aware that, with the constraints adopted, the problems of establishing the provinces are not yet far from being resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u15	Thank you. Sasha Peca gets the word. Position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group we are convinced that the province in our country is not yet solely due to political will. That is the political will that opposes the establishment of the provinces. The fact is that the existing 143rd article, at least according to our assessment, is sufficient for the preparation of a roofing law on the provinces and thus sufficient for the establishment of landscapes across Slovenia. The existing 143rd Article of the Constitution, I quote, states: "The municipalities decide independently on the integration into the wider self-governance of local communities, including the provinces, to regulate and carry out local matters of wider importance." The same interpretation of Article 143 in Slovenia has been interpreted by four or more municipalities or proponents who have drawn up different laws on different provinces over the past ten years. As the Minister correctly pointed out, one of these laws, the Koroan Province Act, was even under consideration in the National Assembly and was even adopted at first reading. Therefore, to say that the existing constitution is too small a basis for the implementation of individual provinces is, in our opinion, exclusively political speaking with the achievement of one political objective, that is, that our country does not wish to have provinces. He doesn't want to have landscapes because of two essential open questions. First time. What will be the assignments of the provinces? Another time. What tasks will the provinces, then, be the original and delegated tasks? Third time. Who will lead the country? According to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assesses or expresses its tendency to become just another administrative obstacle to the performance of individual citizens and citizens. To the extent that the country has a further approach, as advocated by Minister Bohinc, the Bohinc Secretariat, then we will indeed face one or another administrative obstacle in our country, a province which will be aimed exclusively at the political control of citizens and citizens in each territory. Following developments on the Constitutional Commission, as on the working body that met with the property of the provinces, at least according to our assessment, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party assessed one dilemma that you all officially recognised, i.e. whether municipalities should give an opinion or consent to the establishment of the provinces. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Parties, this dilemma, of course, does not deserve code number one. In our opinion, and in so far as we would truly pursue the goal, so that in our country we want to have the provinces that will be in the service of people and not the other way around, which will be in the service of politics, as Mr Bohinc advocates, we should open one and the most important dilemma, a dilemma that can be put into the Slovenian legal order in the form of law, namely, the question, first, competences, secondly, of financing. As long as this national assembly, policy or ministry does not know what content is or will not present to citizens and citizens the contents of the province, it is entirely irrelevant to amend the Constitution and determine which entities can give an opinion or entities which, by consensus, form a specific local government. According to our assessment - we have asked the Minister several times in writing to give us information to approach the bill of arms, several times in writing to call on the President of the National Assembly, Comrade Pahor, but of course there was no answer - until the state of Slovenia knows why the province, whose tasks the province will perform, is so timeless to have a province. As long as our country does not know where and how much financial resources there are, it is also an irrelevant issue of the landscapes. If Slovenian policy really wanted to have the provinces in the sense that they would carry out matters of wider local importance and be some kind of intermediate article between the state administration and the municipal administration, then we should first resolve this issue - namely, what are the tasks of which the first branch of government, the state administration, to the provinces, and the second question of what are the tasks of the municipalities transferring to the provinces. But no, this question is not important to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the time being. Obviously, it is more important in this country that we have some kind of apparent form called the province, but we do not know its contents. And of course, the National Party cannot be involved. The other issue, not just the tasks, but the issue of funding for the execution of these tasks, which on the one hand would be the tasks of the transfer of the State, on the other hand, the task of the transfer of local communities, we do not know. We do not know where it will be financed, whether its funding will be left alone and exclusively to it, with its original taxes; nor do we know that. Will the provinces of the congregations be financed? We don't know. Will the province be financed by its inhabitants and residents? We don't know. Will there be ministries? We don't even know. A while ago, I think it was three years ago, but it was going right. At that time, I think we got a glimpse of some of the opinions of individual ministries, what they are willing to convey to each province. We have received an answer - I think it was in 2000 - a list of individual ministries that are ready to give up certain functions. And interestingly enough, all ministries were willing to give up only administrative tasks. But what's even more interesting, none of the ministries were prepared to provide funding. So, what we are doing: through its ministries, the country will transfer a certain part of the purely administrative tasks to this great and singing landscape, but it will not provide financial resources. Yeah, then how will such a landscape survive? According to our assessment, everyone in this National Assembly and within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and especially with the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Bohinc, is aware of the fundamental dilemmas, but they do not want to give an answer, because their objective is following the wrong content. It follows the content of how to politically command the province; how to create another, intermediate level between citizens and citizens; and, on the other hand, the executive branch of the authorities, that is to say, to create another tampon. But this is a purely political tampon that will not cause anything other than time to settle matters, and even this time period in a negative sense, in that sense, if, for a few more days, it will all take time. That is exactly what the system looks like, as Mr Bohinc has established. At the Constitutional Commission and, of course, at various meetings with our colleague Pahor, we have experienced several disappointments in the National Party. Above all, when asked to talk about tasks, talk about original delegated tasks, but not. No member of the Constitutional Commission wanted to talk about this, nor did colleague Pahor want to discuss it. The same is true of the issue of financing. It's like all of a sudden it's become taboo darkness. The contents of the landscapes have clearly become a taboo within the Ministry and have become a taboo in the framework of the National Assembly. All that matters is that we say today, you and these entities can or must establish a province. Nothing substantive. And in the context of this, I think I read in the newspaper on Friday, in one of the daily newspapers, a large address, the National Assembly will meet with three beautiful constitutional amendments and a substantive correction regarding the provinces next week. That's not true. In substance, as proposed by Mr Bohinc, we do not achieve anything. It's just the fourth beautiful repair, the beautiful repair of the constitution. Optimists are those who think that, on the basis of the amendment to Article 143 proposed by Bohinc, the provinces in our country will be able to live. They won't be able to live. We can create them, but without warrants, without funding, without content. And whether that's the point of moving away from the real life of the landscape for another five, ten years. It is likely that the new National Assembly - we are aware that the end of this mandate - will begin to work again in 2008, where before the elections it will wish, or the government, to show citizens and citizens that they have begun to deal with the provinces and that they have begun to correct the 2004 error, because there was not enough political wisdom to bring content, life into the provinces. With the changes offered to us by the minister, we do not bring life to the province. We are pursuing the objective which, on the one hand, is dictated to us by the needs of our country, thus simplifying procedures for citizens and citizens. We are not pursuing this objective for this constitutional change, nor are we pursuing any objective in creating a new unit that will reduce procedures and be more friendly to citizens and citizens. No, no, no. With this, I will repeat myself, you are creating exclusively a political tampon that will employ some new staff that will deal with administrative matters and which will soften in terms of, yes, as the hands are still running, negative influences on the government of the Republic of Slovenia. Citizens across these provinces will not be able to carry out their tasks. Why not? Because you don't even know what these provinces are doing. What will citizens and citizens benefit from such organisational units if they do not have tasks, if they do not have funding, they do not have the resources to carry out tasks that we do not know at all? So, who in this country will the country benefit? Only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where it will be able to transfer the entire blame for its inefficiency or inefficiency in the work of its ministries to the provinces. Another appellate body that's just gonna be in the middle. No one is likely to want to have provinces more than the Slovenian National Party in this National Assembly. But the landscapes in the sense that they will know substantively and which will be legally assigned to them and finance and which will be reflected in the satisfaction of the citizens. Therefore, any constitutional changes we assess will not bring anything, even more, away from the real problem of citizens and citizens. And the pressure of the congregations in the form of consent or opinions is, of course, very interesting to some extent. In its proposal, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia requires us to give our opinion to the municipalities. Local communities are supposed to give their opinion whether they agree with the province in their territory or not, or agree with a new administrative organisation, some element that is not known what it will do. The opinion, however, we all know them, and I believe that even all citizens and citizens, do not mean anything binding, so it is totally irrelevant whether the local communities agree that this local community, together with the 15 others, belongs to this province or not. It's completely meaningless, it's well-known to everyone in our country, only what it is, it's nice to read. The municipalities give an opinion, someone else may be so naive in our country, and they believe that this opinion will be taken into account. On the other hand, today we also have a proposal for amendments which, of course, reclassify the opinion into agreement. It is necessary to be so honest, unlike the Minister, and to say that the applicants of the Social Democratic Party require two-thirds of the municipality's consent, which is, of course, still wrong and that is why we will not support it, because, on this side, it means that some political option with two-thirds consent can achieve the blockade of an individual province for one reason or another. According to our assessment, it is of course completely irrelevant to speak today about the consent or opinion of the two extremes until the question of what the provinces will do and how they will be financed is resolved. If, with a two-thirds majority in this National Assembly, we should adopt a law that would talk about the content of the provinces, so I stress, and have both elements, tasks and funding, then we can only ask the municipalities for an opinion, because the two-thirds majority are following in the National Assembly or in the Republic of Slovenia some coverage of interests. This is the element through which it is possible to exercise or answer that the interests of local communities are also covered. In a given case, when we do not have element A, not element B, the opening of a dilemma of opinion or agreement, at least according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, is unacceptable and it is only about deceiving ourselves on the one hand, because we can say so, because in this mandate we have also established some quasi-regions, which are actually meant for themselves, but we will be able to say so. And on the other hand, deceiving citizens that I believe no longer believe in the provinces. In view of the fact that the various laws on the establishment of the provinces have already come to the assembly by citizens and citizens, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has always said, "No, we cannot deal with it", or I apologize, except once for the law on the province of Koroška, which came even to the first reading. However, given the position of the National Party's Group of Members, I must also speak in more detail about both proposed amendments. So in the first amendment, which we received on 22.6. and which has already been discussed in the Constitutional Commission, that is, by the Slovenian Democratic Party, where the consent of the municipal councils in at least 2/3 of the municipalities of each province is required, we estimate that the adoption of this amendment would, of course, further delay the acceptance of the provinces in our country, even though it will be an empty landscape or not an empty landscape. Because the fact is that the municipal councils will decide on the establishment of the provinces if they do not know the content. Or is it based only on the name of the province? For this is the only moment that the councils will know at that moment. Another argument is what the country will bring them and what the country will take them, but they won't know. So that in the amendment proposed by the Social Democratic Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party - I apologize - we see in the National Party the pursuit of a single target. This is so that, through individual mayors of their political backgrounds and certain predominances, the complications could, of course, start with the municipal councils and later or former contractors, for which it is likely to be the mayor’s honor. As far as the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned, we will not support it in the National Party. However, as regards the amendment that was tabled today by representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, I must, of course, say on behalf of the National Party that it is completely, I stress, totally unacceptable content. For in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia it is written that we will also have an Italian and a Hungarian province. I'm asking you nicely, then where are we going? And the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian national communities follows that we will have a province with a Hungarian and Italian minority and, of course, that the amendment is even more absurd than it already is, it is stressed that they will have terrors and customers of these provinces even more special rights and special situations. Special rights and special status. Then where did the Slovenians come from? It has already been stated in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for ten years and several years that there should also be a special law for Roma communities with special status and special rights. But it's precisely because of the special status and special rights of this law. And now the idea of the Hungarian province in the Republic of Slovenia - because not in Hungary - and the Italian province in the Republic of Slovenia, which will have a special right and a special position. According to the national party's assessment, it should not only be in the interest of each of the Members and Members, but, above all, that if we give them special rights, a special position, they are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but not that we make them automatic for second-class citizens through the different content of the articles, changes to the articles in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. If the content of the Constitution says that one group has special rights and a special position, that the other group has a special right and a special position and a third group has a special right and a special situation, the fourth, the fifth, which are the largest groups, do not have those rights automatically mean that they have fewer. And this is usually referred to as first-class citizens and second-class citizens. And the amendment of the Hungarian and Italian communities, or representatives of the national communities, follows the goal of putting Slovenians in the constitution as second-class citizens. This is unacceptable for a national party. As far as the basic amendment coming from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, we will not be supporting the national party. The amendment to Article 143 in such a form, which pursues the objective of a purely administrative political organisation at territorial level, cannot be supported. If we had known what we had repeatedly expressed our wish to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or to the President of the National Assembly, the content of the tasks and the criteria for funding, the amount of financial resources, then we could open the debate in this National Assembly. The debate could be opened on the basis of the existing 143rd Article, provided that an appropriate roof law was also adopted, which would answer all the essential questions. In the national party, once again, we will not support either the proposal for a constitutional law, nor the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party nor the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u17	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by a colleague of France Cukjat.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We're already talking about the provinces. In general, it is the wish of all parliamentary groups to untangle this bench, to cut the Gordy knot and, however, to enable the establishment of the landscapes. The current Constitution provides for the establishment of provinces in a way that is fully decided by the municipalities on the establishment and association of municipalities. From the very beginning, we felt that if political will were in the country, we could also establish provinces under the current constitutional provision. If the state, if the government or the government coalition could draw up such an offer of powers as the provinces and such a way of financing, if the municipalities could see a role in the province, a solution to the issue of regionalism and the problem of multi-community problems would certainly result in a movement for the municipalities to be adequately integrated into the province. There have been some attempts, and this National Assembly has refused to establish such a province. It's a bottom-up initiative. We've agreed to a different approach. We agreed to change the constitution, in the hope that we will find an appropriate consensus and an appropriate approach that would satisfy not only the state, but not only the government, to have some intermediate level that might be easier to manage local self-government, but to have a significant approach that would also be agreed by the municipalities - an approach that would be designed for the benefit of the local population. And when, at the last meeting of the National Assembly, in the consideration of Amendment 143 of Article 143, he rejected or did not accept the relevant positions, but only partially, individual views on the amendment of an individual article, we, in other words, did not throw the rifles into the corn, but we were prepared to look again for a consensus solution. Although our amendments have not been adopted in previous procedures, we have repeatedly approached, in the hope that we will find consensus - consensus that goes beyond the division of the national assembly between the position and the opposition. A consensus that is appropriate for any change in the Constitution. Our first position, the first starting point of the debate on the provinces, is based on how we picture the province. Certainly not by representing an administrative level, one, I would say, cloned administration, a new administrative service that would be extended by the state, perhaps for ruling parties also a suitable post office of seconded staff at the state level. Certainly not, such a model of the province of Slovenia does not need. We don't support this type of model. The country cannot be and must not be extended the country's deadline in all respects, but must primarily serve the local population. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure subsidiarity, the fundamental principle of the European Union, which gives rise to all policies of local self-government, which can be regulated and determined and decided at a lower level, to be regulated at a lower level. What the congregation can arrange for itself, without State interference, must then be allowed and made possible for the congregation. What the country can handle on its own must be left to it, and it must be allowed to do so on its own. However, issues such as the establishment of the province, the borders of the provinces, the centres of the provinces, and, of course, the scheme, the organisation of the provinces, which must be decided by the province itself, must be decided by the people living in the province, and must be decided by the congregations united in the province. If the congregations can arrange these matters for their internal organization, they should be allowed to do so and should be allowed to do so. Our approach was therefore one that truly reflected respect for the principle of subsidiarity. Therefore, somehow we do not understand the views or opinions of the expert group, which, of course, opposes this view and wants to fully implement the principle of establishing the provinces by law from above so that no questions are asked. They may be asked only for an opinion that is given or not taken into account or not to be seen by congregations that will be united in the province, but to determine everything from above down. And already that first remark that the law by which the provinces are established must be adopted by 2/3 of the majority, the expert group has referred to it as an opportunity for non-intentional blackmail. With a 2/3 majority in the National Assembly, the law is stability. And the law that would establish the provinces, which would also determine the internal organisation and financing of the province, means some kind of mini-regional constitution, means a statute that should not be subject to every term of office, every time a political game, every time a majority in the national assembly, which, of course, in a democratic situation, may once more be dyed to the left, another time perhaps more to the right and the like. Such a statute, such a mini constitution of the region must certainly have some stability through all political winds, through all political changes. For this reason, such a law must be adopted by 2/3 of the majority. I am surprised that the expert group believes this would allow for unintentional blackmail. Unmeaning blackmail. I don't know who. Maybe the opposition. Then any matter that is being adopted in the National Assembly with a 2/3 majority is inadequately resolved, for there may be an unintentional blackmail of the opposition. Both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and probably also the proponents, or those who criticise the two-thousand adoption in the National Assembly, would probably prefer to see that a short 2/3 majority, principle 2/3 of the majority, in important matters, would be deleted. For there is an unprecedented extortion of a minority. Oppositions, for instance. Of course, such a principle is unacceptable for anyone who has a sense of democratic principles. The second question was how the expert group, as well as many who oppose our amendment, interpreted and argued that our amendment was rejected. For we have proposed and still propose that when adopting the law on the provinces and determining the province, not only take into account the opinion or question not only in the opinion of the municipal councils, but that the National Assembly undertakes to respect at least a two-thirds majority of the municipal councils impaling the province. If, for example, there will be more than a third in a future province, say half of the municipalities against the establishment of such a province, then we believe that the national assembly must not have the moral right to establish such a province. No, it's not. The province is for the people. The province is intended for those municipalities that are supposed to be included in the province. We can't walk away from this principle and we can't back down, we can't back down. What does the consent of the two - thirds majority of the municipal councils mean? This means that in two thirds of the congregations, for example, if 18 congregations are included in a province, at least 12 municipal councils should agree with such a province. This means that at least 51% of municipal councillors should vote in favour of the province in the 12 municipalities. This means a good third of all saints in the future province. Is that really an unattainable consensus? Is this really an insurmountable obstacle to establishing a province? A government or a national assembly that would set up a province if more than a third of the congregations were against or even half the municipalities were against it, then it would be better not for that government and that national assembly to do so. If he does not have the capacity to form a region by satisfying at least two thirds of the population or congregations, then let him not do so by allowing another, more capable government to do so. The section said, of course, that the consent of two-thirds of the municipalities means, I quote, "that any municipality could prevent the establishment of the province and thus regionalisation of Slovenia." We do not understand this observation because we are talking about two thirds, but not that there should be a 100% consensus of all congregations. In fact, how does one view those to whom the province is intended? This is as it is in other cases where the voice of the people is disturbing for government parties in this mandate. How do you talk about referendums? Referendums are just distractions, referendums are just blackmail. Thus, a two - third agreement here would mean merely blackmailing the congregations. It's like saying, yes, we're power, and people who want something are just blackmailing the government. Yeah, well, then let's call off the referenda, because the people are just blackmailing us. Let us break the congregation’s agreement, for the congregations are merely blackmailing us, disturbing us. Yes, gentlemen, it's not a democratic way, that's how the trilegs do it, that's how Stalin did it, that's how Hitler did it, that's how Mussolini did it. He's disturbed by the people. What the people will say, what the people have to say, we will tell them what is good for the people, we will tell them. All their will and respect for their opinion is disruptive. Well, that kind of relationship is possible, that kind of relationship is happening, but it's not in accordance with our constitution, we have the authority of the people, not a certain party, the authority of the people, it's in the constitution, and that's what we need to stick to. At least that's what we want. The European Charter of Local Self-Government also requires some special, sensitive attitude towards the wishes of the people to whom the province is intended, some sensitivity, not an official approach to this issue, but an official approach. The task of authority is not to rule people, but to serve them, and this principle is reflected in the 1996 European Charter of Local Self-Government. This is what the preamble states: "The member states of the Council of Europe take into account that local authorities are one of the main foundations of any democratic regime. They declare that this requires the existence of local authorities with a high degree of autonomy regarding their powers." So, gentlemen, respect for local authorities, these are municipalities, the current municipalities, respect for their opinion, this is the basic principle enshrined in the preamble to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. And in Article 5, the European Charter states: "The borders of local authorities do not change without prior consultation with the local communities to which they relate, preferably through a referendum where this is permitted by law." With us, the law allows a referendum, with us even a referendum is recorded in the constitution. And that's the option. That is why we say, preferably - we have not written down that the referendum is mandatory, but the two-thirds consent of the municipalities is the minimum that satisfies this spirit of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. We hope, we still hope, that we have never thrown a rifle into the corn, that it will be possible in this national assembly, and even in this mandate, to find so much agreement that our amendment, which also incorporates this respect, respect for the opinion of local self-government, will be adopted. And if it is adopted, then the whole proposal will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u19	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. My friend Anderlich has the floor now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u20	Your Honor! The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, by initiating the procedure for the amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, definitively confirmed the profession and also formally removed the dilemma, whether we need to change the Constitution or not in order to create a second level of local self-government. However, if it were possible to establish the provinces, which could be formally possible or possible after the current regulation of the Constitution, it would not be possible to transfer certain functions of the country that the province would urgently need in order to be full-blooded and, in fact, to bring the country closer to its citizens and to regulate certain common functions in the provinces also through the transfer of those functions from local self-government, i.e. from the level of municipalities to the provinces which could and should, in view of the effectiveness and better quality of performing the tasks at the regional level. The introduction of the provinces would thus become a constitutional obligation and the provinces would thus become part of the country's constitutional structure, which the proposal basically contained. Today, we decide how to establish them, in what way. So it will be necessary to pass a law on the provinces and on the financing of the provinces, regardless of whether some say that it is in the air, not knowing how it will be, but precisely in this law. It will be necessary to develop a project on the division of Slovenia into provinces and to adopt a law on the establishment of provinces, and finally to establish a province for which the profession will be defined on the one hand, a country will be defined and this will be done in cooperation, after consultation with municipalities or residents in a specific area. Unfortunately, on the Constitutional Commission, we got acquainted with two diametrically opposed positions. After the first one, the province is to be established on the basis of the consent of the municipal councils, as we have already heard today, at least two thirds of the municipalities of each province, whose population reaches at least two thirds of the population of each province. In our view, and in this part we have listened particularly to the opinion of the profession, this idea is, in fact, fundamentally contrary to the essence of the province as a particular type of local self-government community, with all the attributes of autonomy, both from the state and from the municipality and, of course, it would be closer or similar to the institution of the congregation. Such status can only be guaranteed by law. Even when the European Charter on Local Self-Government and Similar Directions is read, of course, it is also about laws and the fact that, of course, the state regulates this in the cooperation of the municipalities, which we believe is absolutely necessary for municipalities to identify themselves both with borders and with functions. However, we believe that the agreement before the decision would be too demanding and would make it impossible for the provinces to reach at all. And what would be the most wrong thing, of course, would be that in one end of Slovenia we could do it, but not at the other end of Slovenia, and we would have a country divided in contrast to the functions that the provinces should have. If this meant, and this in our opinion could mean that almost every municipality could prevent the establishment of the province and thus all regionalisation in the field of Slovenia, then, of course, this is too much of an obstacle and we cannot support such an approach. The second position that we agreed with, of course, and was also adopted by the Constitutional Commission is different. Following the initial government proposal, the prior consent of local communities, namely municipalities and provinces, as provided for in Article 140(2) of the Constitution for the transfer of state functions to the exercise of local communities, is to be eliminated. According to the new proposal, agreement was to go only to the province and the rest was to be for the congregations. If the state had decided that, together with a congregation, it would be particularly appropriate to talk here about the city and major municipalities which could perform certain functions on behalf and also on behalf of the State, so that this would apply and that, of course, consent would still apply in this case, but not in the provinces. The reason for such a modified position is that the main flow under the projected scenario of State decentralisation after the establishment of the provinces will focus on the landscapes and therefore this lifting of the consent for the provinces would be necessary, but not for the municipalities. And a second time. In the proposed new Article 143, two new developments are involved, and the Law on Provinces and Their Financing adopts a State Assembly with a two-thirds majority presence, an important although demanding compromise on the necessary majority, including the law establishing the province, establishes its territory, seat and name, adopts the law of the State Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, and, in addition, the National Assembly should, before deciding on the establishment of the provinces, invite all municipal councils in the area of the province to give its opinion. In my opinion, the proposal, and this is what the Assembly must do to seek compromise, is therefore a proposal for a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present to adopt both laws. In this way, it was expected that a quorum for constitutional changes would also be needed, because, as I said, according to the expert opinion and our belief without the amendment of Article 143, it is simply not possible to establish the provinces and, in particular, not to regionalise Slovenia. Instead of the proposal on the consent of the municipalities to establish the provinces, the Constitutional Commission, as a result of this compromise, has proposed that the Assembly, before deciding on the establishment of the provinces, should call on the municipal councils in the area of the province envisaged to give their views on the establishment of the province. We fully supported this proposal in the LDS, because we believe that the municipalities or municipal councils must cooperate with their opinions on the establishment of the provinces, and we expect the legislator to take their views as fully as possible, which, of course, would be the only logical one. In the LDS, we believe that in Slovenia, at least in a rough design, there have always been people who identify with them and that there are already certain infrastructure, economic, cultural and historical links within them, so that when laws are to be drawn up, it is possible to take into account, on the basis of these findings, the specifics of the individual areas that are now merging and connecting certain communities in their common interests and that this is then a reflection in the law. In the LDS, we are aware of the danger of constitutional regulation, which sets out such a difficult qualified majority to decide on the provinces in the National Assembly. Such arrangements could enable the establishment of provinces that do not correspond to the functions of the province as a wider regional community in terms of their territorial scope, their capacities and so on. Local pressure could be exerted to create small areas, which would be very difficult for regional development in their area, but this is also the case or rather the case. Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia are concerned that as soon as possible, but the discussion is more than ten years long, it implements an arrangement whereby local self-government is carried out at two levels: in municipalities and provinces, and that the country can transfer certain of its functions to a level closer to the population. I suppose this could be effective for everyone, both for the country and for the inhabitants. Otherwise, we believe that the landscapes as an intermediate level of local self-government must be based on economic criteria, so the conditions for establishing the province must be considered and we will continue to work on the karst. On the other hand, the introduction of the provinces must also take into account, as I mentioned earlier, the geographical, historical and sociological connections of the inhabitants in the individual areas. All of us who know this Slovenia in any way know that such areas, which are gravity centered at some centers, actually work. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the Constitutional Commission has reached major solutions with the compromise offered, and we hope that, with the compromises already stressed, what is proposed will also be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. He now has the floor of his colleague Diaci, who will present the position of the SMS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u22	Thank you, for your word. Nice greetings to all present, distinguished minister. The regulation of regionalisation and the introduction of landscapes, it is said, is an appropriate change of constitution essential for the functioning of our country and for the further operation of the European Union. But not forcefully and in a way that would do more harm than good. The coordination of constitutional changes has been very intensive and unfortunately there has been no agreement and solution to this problem. In view of the fact that a two-thirds majority is required to amend the Constitution in question, this situation is primarily the responsibility of larger parties who should find a national consensus on such an important matter. The SMS considers that it is necessary to take into account the will of people and communities to deal with this problem, but not in a way that could delay the adoption of these amendments. In particular, the debate should focus on the competences and responsibilities of the provinces, their financing and, last but not least, the number and seats of those countries, which is also a major problem, as this would make it easier to understand this issue for the population and thus a possible quicker solution. We were convinced by the expert group, which I believe, quote: "It would not be useful in such situations to professionally support only one of the positions proposed by the National Assembly by the Constitutional Commission, which alone makes no real sense and not to continue the process of adopting constitutional changes in the field of local and regional self-government. The expert group hopes that the next country will be more successful and responsible in decision-making on such important matters as the regionalisation of Slovenia, which is necessary for the improvement of Slovenian local self-government." However, as regards the proposed first amendment to the third position, we do not think that a practical halt will be possible unless these provinces are a whole species, which is not best for our country. We therefore propose that the constitutional amendments to the provisions on the provinces should be left to the next reference, which, in a politically dispersed atmosphere and with the reverse method, as referred to in this reference, will solve this problem, since we all probably do not want the province to be a landfill of exploited political potentials, personnel and a landfill of problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u23	The positions will be decided by colleague Sok, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Then we will turn to the debate of Members and Members of Parliament. Please, Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr Minister with a fellow member, distinguished fellow Member and Members of Parliament! Today, for the third time in this National Assembly, we have seen the same material. This is a proposal for amendments 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution. In New Slovenia we understand that this ruling coalition tries once, but if there was no support then it is completely unreasonable that this has been tried again. And the second time it has not worked, today you are the same proposal before Parliament in the third. I don't think we can help someone who wants to go through the wall three times in New Slovenia and have to find help somewhere else. When we heard the representative of the Slovenian People's Party, the leader of the parliamentary group - The People's Party on the Constitutional Commission has already supported this position once, and today we have heard that we still need to think about it and that it does not support it - I do not know what the point is today to spend this Wednesday, June 23rd, and all day, most likely, to discuss something that will eventually be rejected or not supported by two thirds of Members. However, if that is what you want, at this time, I will tell us the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. We have always opposed the amendment of Article 143 of the Constitution and claim that there is no need to amend or delete Article 143 in order to establish the provinces. The current 143rd Article of the Constitution regulates the area of integration of municipalities into the wider local community, the province, on a voluntary basis, it is said, the self-government basis - municipalities can be projectively linked - but not that they are politically forced into some combinations that already apriorously cannot be successful. This is essentially the principle of subsidiarity in the Constitution, that is, the formation of some groups from the bottom up, and this is also always emphasized and advocated in New Slovenia. Often changing the Constitution, as we do in the Republic of Slovenia, when we change the Constitution because of certain words or in this case because of the establishment of the provinces, of course it is not wise and does not give some of the most important, relevant values. In this proposal to establish landscapes as political creations, it is not about some economic, social or other developmental reasons, but to establish landscapes as political creations and then somehow control them from one centre, which is essentially what this government and the ruling coalition have been doing all along to actually control everything in this country. It's obvious that if the government had done what they were supposed to do by now, we could have gotten to the countryside. The government had sufficient support to bring the relevant law through the National Assembly and then to unite the congregations on the basis of this law. However, beyond the draft law on the province in these twelve years, since the power of the Liberal Democracy, it has not actually come. In the law passed in 1999, the draft law was adopted in the 1999 National Assembly, and some of the tasks described are what the provinces are supposed to do. These tasks are written in very broad and vague terms. This is how some municipal activities, then energy activities, some education activities, then economic and craft and agriculture activities, are to be carried out together. In addition, certain joint transport regulation activities are to be carried out, some activities relating to natural and other accidents, space regulation, environmental protection, some other public services, as well as joint activities in the field of nature protection and cultural heritage. All together, it is written as some broad undefined assumption of what future provinces are supposed to be and what the state should be prepared to transfer to such established provinces, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. In this we see in Novi Slovenije one of the main reasons why the regulation of this area of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia has not moved from a dead point because the tasks were merely descriptive and unclear. Most of the shortcomings of this 1999 draft law are in the area of land financing. The law stated that, among other things, the provinces are financed from their own resources, but the law does not indicate which funds it should be. Furthermore, the province was to be financed by state resources, namely, that the State would be prepared to cancel the part of the income it was supposed to be, does not state the law. The funds of local communities are also mentioned, and in Novi Slovenija we are convinced that this is actually the only source on which the country has a strong account. This, on the one hand, would finance the provinces, and on the other hand would take the same resources away from municipalities that are already receiving very little funding for their development. All together, we consume around 4% of the gross social product at the level of local self-government, which is the least or the least between the Member States of the European Union, and I can peacefully claim that we are, in such a way, financing on the tail itself in the European Union. Now there is an option, if, the National Assembly will adopt a law on the financing of municipalities or provinces with a two-thirds majority of the Members present, but that does not mean anything if we still do not know where we are going to take these funds. And I am still convinced that these funds will be taken away from the congregations. To the municipalities that have been well received at this time and which are doing very well and well. The only thing the draft law of 1999 has precisely defined is that the future province will have some bodies, such as the provincial council, that there will be some provincial committees, which will be proposed by the municipal councils, and that it will have a provincial head. It is clear, of course, that such a solution would greatly increase the administrative structures of the provinces, so that such a law would greatly increase red tape and, as a result, a large spending of resources for this purpose. Therefore, in Nova Slovenija we strongly oppose that in this way in Slovenia it would be costly to spend any way possible on the development of local self-government. The government and the ruling coalition convince the public that it is necessary to establish the provinces for reasons of centralisation. Centralisation, however, is supposed to be the result of the formation of small municipalities. In fact, centralisation was created because the government wanted to, because it was more centralizing and more and more powers - instead of leaving them at local levels - it somehow attributed and took over. At the same time, the government imposed certain duties on the congregations on the other side, almost regularly forgetting that it was also a financial burden. It did not financially ensure that these tasks which it carried out were also provided with adequate resources. In fact, I can say that the ruling coalition has adopted many unnecessary legal provisions, in these laws many restrictions, many superstandard decisions that, where possible, we have prescribed high penalties and a series of bureaucratic obstacles, and now you claim that small municipalities are to be guilty or that centralisation in Slovenia is to be the result of these small municipalities. Certainly, the municipality cannot bear responsibility for the government's beginning of centralisation in the field of administrative tasks, such as the geodetic administration, the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, and the centralisation of inspection services lately, and, of course, if this government continues, this procedure will continue. On the one hand, this centralisation does not actually achieve any financial impact, because if you look at it, more funds are used for bureaucracy in Slovenia. On the other hand, such procedures actually alienate citizens from administrative tasks and thus irritate them. For people need to get more and more administrative acts, forms, certificates, notices and so on, and they need to pay more and more to issue such and similar documents. Even more so, the Government's argument that a coherent regional development will begin with the establishment of the landscapes. In Novi Slovenija, we cannot agree to a government argument that the developmental shortcomings we know today in coherent regional development will be addressed if we turn the underdeveloped areas into a province. The status of the province does not mean that the less developed area will develop more rapidly in order to reduce the number of unemployed. If we want the regions to develop more evenly and more quickly, it is imperative that the law on coherent regional development be implemented more quickly and more effectively, in particular by adopting a new, modern law, burdening the costs of work and reducing the costs of state administration even earlier. To conclude, in Novi Slovenija we do not oppose the formation of the provinces. However, the landscapes must, and we are deeply convinced, come from below. They must be created in such a way that the inhabitants see their opportunity in these lands, and they must be created in the way that people want and want. Before that, citizens need to know clearly and clearly what the landscape will mean in an administrative sense, what its tasks will be and what the province will mean in terms of the financial burden for our taxpayers. Before we move towards amending the Constitution, the New Slovenia believes it is necessary to draw up a law on the provinces from which everything I have just mentioned will be clearly and transparently visible. Anything else, fellow Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, the ruling coalition and the minister, is some form, if I say so in Serbian, of'super-smarting'. However, if you outsmart or think that you are going to outsmart certain political parties, it will be a barren work, for people usually cannot outwit themselves for a longer period of time. We will not support the deletion of Article 143. Even this solution with the amendment of the United List, which means that municipalities should give an optional opinion, which is supposed to be a prerequisite for the founding provinces, cannot convince us, of course, especially since we see that in this country, in the time of this government, even the referendums voted do not mean anything, even though it would mean such opinions. So, of course, when we observe it every day, it's hard to believe and it's hard to agree to it. The decision of the people, once again, must be binding. If that is not the case, then it is difficult to say that the provinces will be created by consensus. This is also pointed out by the State Council. There is probably no need to pay particular attention to the presence of representatives of local interests. Once the government understands this, it will be ripe for a good compromise in this House. However, until she understands this, it makes no sense for the State Assembly to literally rape these views in the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard all the views of the groups of Members, and we can begin with the debate of Members and Members. Some colleagues have already apologized, they won't talk, even though they're on the list. So please be careful of the order. You're the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. If I have listened very carefully to the presentation of the views of the groups in question, I can conclude that there is no consensus necessary to amend the Constitution in this area at this time. At least four parliamentary groups have made this explicit in relation to the current text. Of course, both in our parliamentary group and in others, I do not see too much enthusiasm for the adoption of constitutional changes in the area of landscapes. This is probably why the experience of this mandate, and probably some of the consequences of the previous mandate, is very poor in terms of providing the necessary financial conditions for the functioning of the municipalities, and in particular the measures taken with legal and, of course, other solutions in this mandate, which have imposed additional obligations on the municipalities and, of course, have not provided funding for this. On this basis, efforts were sought in the Constitutional Commission in order to allow two-thirds of the law to be passed, both on the financing of municipalities and on the law establishing the way in which the provinces were established, of course, only by 2/3 of the majority. Despite the arguments made by the expert commission that this makes the procedure difficult, I believe that, given the not too positive atmosphere and also the fact that conditions for an objective approach have not been created, this would have been a better search for compromises and solutions than, of course, the section members have said that they have explicitly opposed any conditionalisation of 2/3 of the majority in the adoption of laws in the area of landscapes. The key question for reaching consensus, according to today's debate, is in particular the question of the role of the congregation. And, of course, I am thinking now that if it is a willingness to launch this project in this mandate, then I think it would probably suggest that we listen to this part of the political option, that one of the key moments in the establishment of the provinces should also determine a specific quorum of the consent of the municipalities. It is not clear from the views read or presented that there is an interest in these groups. However, I believe that the area of amending the Constitution in the area of the provinces is such an important project that it is likely that it should not be afforded today by a minimum vote. The issue of the consent of the congregations is also an important issue. This question is likely to have come more into play in view of the climate created, which is in this area, on the question of trust. At this point in time, although very much work has been done on this project, I would like to reflect once again on all those parliamentary groups which, of course, have also announced the idea of this amendment by the SDS Group in order to reconsider it. Does it not show that the municipalities are given more weight than the basic proposal? I do not think that any greater weight can harm anything in any case, even if in certain cases it would happen that one congregation itself would decide what the province would be like. I do not understand that amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which speaks of a two-thirds majority, both the size of the municipalities and of course the number of inhabitants in the sense that the project of the provinces would then be blocked for the whole country, but it could be for the intended province if the province was set up against the will of one third of the inhabitants of that region, I do not think it would be good. From this point of view, I think it is appropriate to hear this argument. We can only go into a concrete practical case. Why would a certain congregation oppose the establishment of a province? Is it because it does not agree with the placement proposed by the government that the problem is very easily solved already in this document, with the referendum, or with regard to the establishment of the headquarters of the provinces? This will likely be the more crucial issue of determining the territory’s headquarters, where the problem of one third of the congregation may arise. If we ignore one third of the inhabitants of the province in determining the country's seat, I tell you that this province will not come to life, it will not give the results we expect. That is why, of course, I would appeal once again to try to reconsider this proposal, regardless of the fact that it has been given by the other parliamentary group and has been insisting on this for a long time, until the final decision is taken. I believe that such a proposal can benefit rather than damage the further regionalisation project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Like I said, we'll probably skip someone, like Comrade Battelli, Lenka. My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I do not want to assume that the issue of regulating the constitutional text on the provinces would not be sufficiently spoken of, that we would not speak thoroughly, that we would not understand each other what a solution means, and that we are also today explaining things differently than they actually do. I am firmly convinced that we all know everything and that even today many words are not truly spoken. As regards the establishment of the provinces, I believe that the only correct interpretation of the existing 143rd Article is that the provinces as community communities can be established. We could, we could have, one, the other, a third, but as a community of municipalities, with delegated powers from the congregation to the province, if we agreed to do so, but it is not, normally, of real interest, because you are a province and because we all want the province to have transferred powers from the country to the provinces, and because we want the rationality of the organization to make this landscape part of the administrative functions, it is, as we have said, a kind of amphibian. That would make sense to the state. In order to ensure this, however, it is necessary to organise the country in the provinces at the same time, because it is not possible to have three provinces in Gorenjska and in Prekmurje in Primorska, I am simplifying, but not the other provinces, because in this case state functions cannot be carried over to the provinces, because then there is complete confusion as to what someone is competent to decide or not, in terms of decision-making, or representations in Parliament or self-government in the municipality, the municipal council and the provincial council or at the level of administration. It just doesn't work. And who, after all the debates, still doesn't want to see it, doesn't want to understand it, it doesn't work because it doesn't really understand it, but because it has some other interests and just doesn't want to admit it. So we need co-organization. And we agreed - now I will quote Mr Podobnik, 'according to the European model', on the basis of how the problems in Europe are resolved - to agree on a two-thirds agreement on a system law that will determine the jurisdiction of the provinces, the system of financing of the provinces, and to agree on a two-thirds majority in the State Assembly for the Establishment of the Provinces; in short, how many will there be, where will they be, what will they be seats and so on. We have agreed on this and this is according to the European model - the two-thirds majority of those present. And today it has already been said, if necessary, that at the same time means a two-thirds majority of all, if all of us are interested. And it has been said that all of us, including Members and Members of Parliament, are representatives of the people, and in this respect we will certainly have an interest not to usurp our right not to usurp our rights against the will of the municipalities and against the will of citizens and citizens to divide Slovenia into provinces; what question may remain unresolved. However, if we accept the proposals made today that the two-thirds majority in each province of the future municipalities, together with two-thirds of the population, is a condition for the establishment of any province, then, Mr Rokavec, I cannot understand otherwise than that it means that the other provinces cannot be formed as well. Because if other landscapes can be formed, then we also said that for the conflict, it is the only possible territory. But if this is not possible territory, because the three want to go to the neighbours in the north, three in the neighbours in the south, and then those provinces in the north and in the south are not territorially completed and we cannot decide on them. And we have to spin circles of disagreements for as long as we don't solve all things. I think you're the only reality and that everything else you're saying is not true! It couldn't have been any different. They may be someone's wishes, but the text is written like that. That is why I think that in this way the one who advocates this - for the best of purposes - I will not say anything else - but forces a constitutional solution into a situation in which in fact, given that we all know that the establishment of the landscapes are different concepts, there are different views, there are different interests that many individual municipalities see themselves at different ends to come into a situation where a simple constitutional provision could not be implemented. That is why I think it would be right to say this, to decide today, because in any case we will be in the same situation. If we withdraw the decision today, as proposed, we will be in the same situation as if we are deciding today and the determination will not be taken. We are just before the end of this call, counting on the fact that we still have a lot of time, when we all count on the last regular meeting on 15 July, so that we can decide on constitutional changes, we do not have any. In the new reference, however, it is almost all the same - not in a formal but in a factual sense - or we continue the debate on the constitution on where we are now ending, or we are starting on a new initiative designed by the government or an appropriate part of the Members and Members. We'll know everything or we won't know, and we can make a deal. That is why I, too, have to say in order to withdraw this proposal, personally I am not, but I know that if most people choose to do so, then we should just take it. Nor do I expect the withdrawal of this proposal to mean anything other than the fact that we are not prepared for this minimum, which we are now following many coordinations, and all of you say that this coordination and these procedures are correctly described by Minister Bohinc, before we decide on it. I would just like to conclude with this opinion and conviction: if we are not prepared to adopt this minimum, then we are not prepared to decide on the possibility of a constitutional debate in the next term on the preparation of two laws regulating the system and the formation of the provinces in the country. Do not say that because those who propose this do not want to respect the will of the congregations, do not say that because everything can be saved and those who do not understand that they are themselves good intentions everywhere - nieres. If it's not accepted, it just won't be possible. I know that your opponents are going to wrap your views in, I'd say, nice bouquets and cellophane, but the reality is, and it's right to admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u29	Thank you, Comrade Potsch. Igor Štemberger gets a word for his debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u30	Thank you, for your word. Like another stage of local self - government or an article between the congregation and the country, we probably all want it. Not only will we be able to find places in the provincial councils to solve human resources problems within political parties, but rather because we will really bring citizens closer to the country or to the designated tasks of state competence. The problem is that we have different views on what the landscapes should be, how many they should be, and, above all, how to get to these landscapes. I am of the opinion that the provinces must be such as to be welcomed by citizens. And if this is to be achieved, then the broadest consensus is needed both between Members and the wider, between representatives of local communities, i.e. the municipalities. I support the provision establishing the province by law adopted by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority. I am alone among those who believe that the landscapes must grow from the bottom up and not the other way around. If we are able to listen to citizens when adopting the law on the establishment of the provinces, there will be no problem in establishing the provinces. Therefore, I do not see any fear that agreement by the congregations is required prior to the establishment of the provinces. This seems absolutely necessary to me, since it is the only guarantee that some congregations will not be fooled into setting up the provinces. I admit that I have great reservations at the very thought of establishing the provinces from above without the congregation’s consent. These reservations stem from a negative experience from the past. If we just remember the statistical regions that were staged from the center without anyone asking anyone. Thus we have received, for example, an internal-Kraška statistical region, which does not really have much from Crassus, except on behalf of Crassus. This region brings together today's administrative units: Illyrian Bistrica, Cerknica and Postojna. Thus, for example, Illyrian Bistrica and Cerknica landed in the same statistical region, although they had little or nothing in common. It is true that they are geographically close, but it is often forgotten that in the midst of 2,000 meters, there is almost 2,000 meters high barrier, called Snow White. Thus we joined the region Primorce on one side of the Snowman and Notranjce on the other side of the Snowman. Then we established a police administration in the same territory, which also includes these three administrative units, which, interestingly, today in the area of this police administration we drive cars with three different registration codes: one Koper, the other Ljubljana and the third Postojna. The municipalities in this region then merged into various regional development agencies. One to the southern Primorsko, one to the Notranjsko, there are networks and courts and, I don't know, offices for work and, finally, electoral units for elections to the National Assembly. This is how the region brought together some who are gravitating to Koper, others who are gravitating to Ljubljana, and others who want to be centered. In short, it's a whole mess that doesn't have a couple in the state, and that's just as a result of the forced region from above. This region has never, in practice, come to life because no one has benefited from it, except that small handful in its centre, where, with each new reorganisation, state offices have accumulated with each new rationalisation. And if we are to establish the province in the same way today, we will make the same mistakes because we are obviously inclined to create confusion and disorder instead of listening to rumors from the ground. I'm not gonna support this from the top of a run-down landscape establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u31	Thank you, fellow Stemberger. Bogdan Barovich gets his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I'll be brief. But I say that because I have a reason. I will tell you the content that I already held at the 42nd extraordinary session, which, today, even proves that the Slovenian National Party was right at the time. First. Once again, we warn on behalf of the National Party that there is no way that we can compare infringements of the Constitution, I do not know, with amendments to laws, or with amendments to laws, or with amendments to laws. The Constitution is a comprehensive legal act that binds all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And if we want to learn that way, what's right is that we take everything well from the good of the world, about the United States, for example -- we all know what the Constitution means there. How untouchable is the Constitution and the violation of the Constitution. Secondly, we are interfering with the Constitution, as my distinguished fellow Member, Saša Peca, said in the introduction, without any concrete criteria, data, content and financial implications. Thirdly, a month and a half, there is more when we become equal members of the European Union, a country that belongs to the European Union. Unfortunately, despite all efforts and voting after knowledge as far as the European Union is concerned, I have had this opportunity as a Member, I still do not see any coordination between the formation of regionalisation at all four so-called NCC levels, because we need to coordinate, because these are also our obligations and rights, regionalisation at European and national level, and this, according to the Slovenian National Parties, must be a synchrom, coordinated, without adopting something at home, some other rules apply in Europe, and when we interfere, if not, with the search and the needs for financial resources, of course these differences arise. My colleagues, who have been mayors for many years, know this much better than I do, what rules apply when looking for funds from structural or cohesion funds, for example from the European Union, in view of the regional arrangements we have at this time. And thank God we have what she is. This is the third point that I would like to say that the existing regions, although we call them statistical regions, are, are, 12 and live. They live because they are created on the basis of common interests. They did not come from a two-thirds consensus or from an opinion or design - I don't know from what criteria, we don't even know why and what proposals we're already putting into the constitution are. I also pointed out at the 42nd extraordinary meeting on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that we are also assessing that the existing provisions that we are also talking about today are constitutional, appropriate and I stress that, by means of legislation which I am convinced will not be determined, in breach of existing constitutional provisions, that by supplementing legislation, we can regulate the landscapes according to people's wishes and wishes, in particular, the emphasis on people. Finally, I will remind my fellow Members and colleagues once again, at the 42nd extraordinary meeting, we could avoid today's debate, which is very much the same as we see it, and the view that the two-thirds majority will not be reached is prevailing everywhere. At that time, perhaps you could listen to us and find that it is better to hurry slowly, for speed is killing us. And to coordinate regionalisation at European and national level, of course, with the basic assumption that we have first established criteria, tasks, assurance for people that they will survive and live, and, of course, the financial guarantees that are also defined in these changes that we are talking about today, can be set up by the State if it provides the means. However, as Sašo Peca said, no ministry has been prepared or has clearly expressed the will to ensure, of course, that tasks are transferred from the Ministry to a lower level, i.e. to the level of a region, that it will transfer funds. This is again on behalf of the Slovenian National Party: do not rush, hurry slowly. First, let us make the content, make the programmes, the tasks and provide the financial means - let the image be clear - and then there will probably be doubts as to whether the opinion or whether the consent of the municipalities, as in the design of the statistical regions, should be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u33	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. Joze Azhishch gets his word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u34	Whenever we talked about the province in the previous or this term, we have actually met with fantastic demagogies. We all want the provinces! There is no parliamentary group that does not claim to want the provinces, but - we are not prepared to do anything to establish them in Slovenia. I ask all those who claim that the existing constitution makes this possible. We have a constitution for a long time since we became independent, and Article 143 stipulates that it is not easy, but it says that the congregations are united into a wider local community, the provinces alone. Why don't we have them in Slovenia? Let me tell you, if the constitution allows this, and if we all really want to have a province, why don't we have a province? The municipalities can connect and some of the smaller environments that have felt threatened that there may be few provinces in Slovenia if they are established by law, they have tried to organize. There was talk of Koroška today. In my previous term, I have introduced the law - following the Koror model, I must admit - on the province of Posavje, because three Posavje municipalities want to be one of the future Slovenian provinces - because of the interests of the current integration, because of the possibilities they see in this connection. However, we did not establish the provinces in Koroška, nor in Posavje, nor in the Lower Podravje, or what it is called, not in northern Primorsk or in some other parts for which laws are also introduced. We have even some regional authorities, but I wonder what has been impeding the municipalities so far, so that the local authorities, the municipal authorities, can transfer them to the provinces and these regional authorities today would have jurisdiction over local community areas, such as waste collection and similar matters. Not one of these quasi-regions operating in Slovenia today has the authority to be transferred from local communities to this province. There are consultative bodies, there are a lot of things going on in these holy communities, but in any case, if a decision is to be made, it is decided by the municipalities - there is no transfer of powers. On the other hand, the state cannot transfer its powers to two or three provinces in Slovenia, even though they would have been established in accordance with this constitution that we have. For I cannot imagine that, for example, to Posavje or Koroška state, the authority to manage regional roads, with money, and with all the other regional roads in Slovenia would be managed by the Directorate for State Roads, as it has been so far. Or high school or something. In short, the proposal that we have before us is probably an extreme compromise of what politics wants on the one hand and what the profession does not particularly admire about the proposal that we have before us is also accepting. For the profession is afraid of too many landscapes and the battle of this provision on a two-thirds decision on the law that is supposed to be the basis for establishing the provinces, but I think we have already decided on this concept in some way. All those who talk about how the number of provinces, the content of the provinces, the means to go to the provinces should be determined first, in fact, what should be done in the law if we are to adopt the law at all in the national assembly, because there is, of course, a great danger or the belief that we will not change this article 143 today. I often wonder if it's not like that Columbus egg or the question of what happened before: chicken or egg. Today, in fact, we hear all day or even this morning that Slovenia is a chicken, that little of that egg is forward - or in form, or after growth, or after content - let us ask ourselves. This chicken also has many chickens, if they can be congregations in some parable Where is the rooster? We don't have that cock. Would it not be more appropriate for Slovenia to be a rooster with a flock of hens, which are the provinces, and a host of chickens, which could be congregations? However, we are not in a position to make this rooster and will remain hens until we find the political will to amend Article 143 of the Constitution and enable the preparation of a law to establish the provinces in the next term. And I am surprised, for example, that political party that is preparing to take office in the coming term to defend even stricter criteria or even stricter criteria for the establishment of provinces in the Republic of Slovenia, because if they have a government, they will certainly not be any easier than we have set up the provinces in the coming term. I will personally support the amendment or the position of the Constitutional Commission, but of course I will remember exactly who all those who are for the provinces are not prepared to do anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u35	Thank you, Josie Auschwitz. Mag. Janez Petty Officer gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I am inclined to come to Slovenia to establish the provinces and Nova Slovenija has repeatedly stressed that we need to build this from below, not from above. The constitutional article that is now, we can say, makes it possible. There was no initiative for an appropriate law to implement this, of course. So this readiness didn't work out. We could also properly write the criteria for establishing the provinces under this law. The subject, too, may be defined in this law, according to some statements. How can the number of centres or regions also be identified with the agreement of the border municipalities, how they can move? All of this could be defined by law. This experiment has not been carried out, so to say that this cannot be done unless it has been tried, of course this is nonsense. In some ways, we could also encourage the formation of landscapes if, of course, we wrote a law that would provide additional resources if the congregations were to join the regions. If certain projects were to bind or budget funding to the establishment of the province, the municipalities would quickly find time and make this common link. Obviously, some people prefer the link from the top down under a directive, and I do not agree to such a directive myself. Therefore, I do not support initiatives to regulate without the consent of the municipalities, at least in some sense, in one way or another. Such a province would actually be government discounts. Or if we did the provinces with parliaments and all that belongs to the administration apparatus, it would be an empty shot. We certainly do not need such another level of self-government or system management, given the size of our country and the fact that we are included in the European Union. In fact, this would set four levels of government of the country, which would be unsustainable, financially unsustainable, opaque and also uncontrollable for such a Slovenia. From the top down, such a principle would also be in some sense the dismemberment of Slovenia. Tensions are emerging in Europe, initiatives to establish European regions. We have heard ideas coming from Italy to the so-called region of the Julian landscape, which would go somehow to the Postojna or perhaps beyond, of course, with background; political, economic and national charges. Then the initiative by our northern neighbours, in particular the person who is more interested in national themes, is to reach out to or this European region to Croatia. And if we also accept some amendments prepared by the representatives of nationality, then we can seriously ask about Slovenia what will happen to it. Is it the final dismemberment of this national space and the Slovenian space? How to establish a province, a particular province in Slovenia, for example, for the so-called Italian province, if 3,000 Italians live in this territory? Let's look at how standards are being implemented in neighbouring countries and what are the basic standards for the country's operations and ensuring national identity within the European Union. Let's compare the standards that Slovenians living in Italy and Italians living in Slovenia have. Let's compare this nicely and we'll get the results. What about Slovenian television, this unit in Cyprus? More than a hundred employees, virtually one team that could run a decent TV. We guarantee that we are covering the Slovenian space with Italian broadcasts. At the same time, as we approach Postojna, we are hit by radio stations that cover our radio stations from the western borders. Is this equivalence in the European space? We asked ourselves about how it is to distribute frequencies and how to coordinate the frequencies of Slovenian radio stations and Italian radio stations. All of this, of course, shapes behavior, feelings of inferiority, or more values of people in one or another area. I don't want to overheat the space, but the truth needs to be told, so that one side and the other can figure out where the matter actually went across the border. Therefore, standards have been set for the problems encountered in relation to these radio stations, standards have been set, but not by one side or by the other. One pushes through, the other kneels. So, of course, this is not a suitable approach to establishing landscapes. Then it's better that they're gone. Once again, the existing constitutional provision is sufficient to establish the provinces. Then it is necessary to adopt a law, probably the general one, and then by means of individual laws, establish individual provinces. And even for a place of coordination, it would be possible to find a place in such a law or, therefore, to find a place in a marriage and to resolve disputed, perhaps borderline dilemmas or similar. Of course, on the principle of congregation decision. It is therefore necessary to maintain the Institute of Consent.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u37	Thank you, Comrade Petty Officer. Word gets from colleague Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be brief. In the light of the great innovation or gymnastics of colleagues from the People's Party, I do not think I see the great significance of today's session, except that we finally remove the masks, find that all the efforts we have made throughout the entire mandate have not produced fruit and we are ahead of such deviations from the original solutions and by increasing the threshold and difficulty of managing regionalisation in Slovenia, of course, we will not succeed. I think it was from a kind of debate to feel the desire of some, of course, that whatever we were doing here in this room should not change the constitution. The Constitution was conceived by strongly centralising the country at the time of the municipal system when there were 60 communes. These same political forces, which have thus established the Constitution and, of course, determined the centralisation of the system, today oppose the establishment of constitutional solutions that would allow our territorial structure to be set up differently. With the amendments to the Constitution to delete Article 143, we do not establish landscapes, we do not determine sources of funding, we do not determine jurisdiction, but we only facilitate the process of establishing landscapes, because it has always been seen that this has not been possible. That's why we didn't get to the countryside the way we are. Thus, of course, the narrative of the role of the congregations, the fact that they should give more than just an opinion, because it can also be a broad and especially binding opinion for the legislator, because you cannot or realize that you can go into a conflict that is unproductive or that we can even establish a formal right to consent. It is even disputed by the regulation of the legislation we have for the establishment of municipalities, even there we have a provision allowing the government or parliament to establish a municipality beyond the will of the inhabitants of that area, if there are special and other circumstances, as we have seen in the case of Koper, when twice at the referendums, 90% of the votes against which it was not intended and should also decide against that will. When we talk about the provinces, we are talking about something where not only the local interests are being realized, but the powers of the State are being exercised and, of course, it is the binding position of the municipality that is united in that province, so that, of course, the instrument of agreement can stop the formation of the provinces in a certain proportion of these municipalities. It's such a great idea. I will support the views of the Constitutional Commission, and I will also support the amendments to these positions made by the national community, which does not speak of establishing an Italian or Hungarian province, but only of allowing the State to transfer its powers to these two provinces in the exercise of the constitutional rights of nationality - nothing else. Simply as regards Italian nationality or Hungarian nationality, it will be decided closer to their space and not Ljubljana. It is simply a solution that they know elsewhere. Last but not least, in Italy you know that Furlania-Julian landscape has a special status precisely because it is easier to achieve this and unfortunately it is not being implemented as it should be. I will support this, but I am aware that we will not get the right majority today and that the story will be over, and it is right that those who have been monitoring our work know exactly who was in favour of changing the constitutional barrier to the establishment of the provinces that we have for a number of years now, and who was in favour of maintaining this obstacle. And tomorrow, if these political forces are in power, in no way do I promise that there will be regionalisation, but continue to be a strong and undeniable centralisation of the state's jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u39	Thank you. My word, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u40	Mr Vice President, thank you very much. Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! For four years, I have been working intensively on the issue of this centralisation, as did a member of the Constitutional Commission, not only there, but also with intensive action in the context of the world of the Carinthian region. And allow me to report from this city my immense disappointment and also to report that the attitude of most political parties in the Slovenian space is to this issue, which will result in supporting constitutional change or not, in my opinion, the greatest possible political arrogance that I have seen in the Slovenian political space in these four years. Not only arrogant, but the greatest possible gap between the words and actions that these political parties are reporting. I have witnessed in these three years, in the work of forces that have done everything, somehow to support the necessary division of Slovenia into smaller units, but the work of inventing incredible ideas that the world does not know, solutions that the world does not know how to prevent these constitutional changes from happening. I would personally like to thank the expert commission, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which both of these institutions have provided us with extremely professional suggestions, which I have assessed to be the maturity of political actors in the Slovenian space, but have reached a stage where they will be able to follow these professional arguments. Only two statements, which were today in this space like those - and not just today - that would prevent adoption with new views, with new amendments, that we should accept them so that regionalisation would be what the parties who actually oppose it think, and I want to say and prove that it is a complete political bluff, not to say, the arrogance that we, who really want it to happen, are too obvious. Let us look at our past, until recently a coalition partner, the Slovenian People's Party. If I return only to the Hill, when we have yet to coordinate our future steps towards the next national elections, and therefore to coordinate on important issues for this country, which we must resolve and which require 60 votes from Members and Members, there was a clear commitment and agreement. It also mentioned a major gap between the positions communicated to us by the expert commission and a large gap from the government proposal. However, because in our political option we were aware that after thirteen years of centralised countries need to move forward, we gave in, and we showed the Slovenian People's Party when we also supported the positions that were their demand to get their votes, installed and before us today. And today comes Mr. Podobnik - and, last but not least, it is a slap to the President of the National Assembly, who has brought the last attempts at coordination to a meeting of the Constitutional Commission, and therefore the two-thirds majority in deciding on the law on the financing of the provinces, on the design of the areas and so on, it was what you announced at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission not long ago - today a completely new position! So unless we support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that is not the political consensus. I mean, it's a political arrogance of the first degree, which at least I'm assessing, and the misdirection of such a degree, Mr Kangler, you're making fun of me, and you said from this place at the recent night session that if I don't care about Koroška, you're talking about Styria. [[...]] Today you will show by your vote what you care about in this Slovenian space. This is the first part that shows me that the political parties that talk most about coherent development do everything they can to prevent this from happening. From below - Slovenian Democratic Party. I have read all the magnetograms, and, for the first time, Mr Janša has developed all his ideas on how to build me from the bottom of this intermediate level on the committee, on the Constitutional Commission, I have here three pages of the magnetogram, where, apart from the fact that the expert committee has reasoned with him that this is not going well, I have also tried to show myself on a specific case with an argument that this is not going well. But today, of course, again an amendment in a direction that is technically unacceptable. Not because today in the Slovenian political space I would be opposed to the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but because no one in Europe or the world has been able to build the second stages of local self-government as you propose today. With the help of international comparisons, the Council of Europe documents, the expert commission presented, based on analyses of the actual situation in Slovenia, an expert position following the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this is also the position of our political option. Unable to establish themselves, unable to form a congregation, Dr. Schmidtovnik says, "They can't set up something more than they are alone." And he can handle it professionally. Not only did no government structures build in this way. Dear fellow Members, we have not built local self-government as you say today that we must build the provinces and regions in this way. By law, we built the first degree of local self-government. The law adopted this Parliament; the law in which it laid down powers established a method of financing and so on. You yourself know very well that this is not the case and therefore you cannot convince me that this is nothing more than an actual populist action all in a direction to prevent the emergence of regions. For three years I have been listening to you and for three years you have not agreed to one reasonable professional argument, which has been repeatedly and repeatedly communicated by the Commission of Experts and reviews of all European practices and of all world practices, show that there is no other way. So that's my opinion on what you're doing with this message. But I don't give up, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u41	Please don't disturb the debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u42	And I'll try to get back to you. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u43	Mr. Kelemina, you'll get your word when you get your turn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u44	Once again, I will try to communicate some argument that may be worth accepting, but I will try Mr Jerovšek, I will try. As visionaries are very modern in the Slovenian space recently, considering when we should, how we should make our democracy move forward, let me also communicate some political visionary, which should not be just that. I would like those who are building visions outside this house to help build this important vision today, this moment, when we adopt constitutional changes, a change to the constitution that we all know is a very important social contract, with the support of these changes, to show that from words to actions in our country we know to come and that, last but not least, that the decentralisation of this moment in Slovenia is extremely important. For my assessment, in the book Democracy in Europe, Siedentop gave an extremely important message on the importance of decentralisation when it says that it is important not only for political and constitutional reasons. It says that dispersion of power is fundamental to the development of human character. Such dispersion fosters competition, self - reliance, and humility. These qualities are infinitely more desirable than the fears, liquities and indispositions promoted by centralisation of power. After all, we want Slovenia to be, I will say, safe, we do not want Slovenia to be safe just for bureaucrats. In a sense, the dispersion of power through local autonomy and to the extremes of increased opportunities for the political participation of individuals in governance strengthen character. When it gives individuals not only fundamental civil rights, but also the experience of the application of political rights, the experience of dealing with public matters, and of bringing knowledge and judgment into these matters. Politics that disperse power helps to change the nature of the relationship between the state and civil society. Instead of being just a passive holder or recipient of rights or civil liberties, a citizen becomes an active worker, one who seeks to identify public goods for himself and learns to weigh benefits and disadvantages when considering proposals for public affairs. An active citizen is thus forced to unwittingly combine the theory with practice, the ideals with facts, and when he does so, his judgment will be drawn up and his behaviour will increase, and the moral growth of an employee in the field of civic activity stems from a constant confrontation with the needs or desires of others. In short, it is a relationship that is a prerequisite for building a political culture of consensus in our country. [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr Jerovšek, this is an argument which has a profound content. This is an argument that I think should lead us in addition to professional arguments, if we want citizens and citizens in our country not only to feel that there is somewhere in Slovenia, Ljubljana, a country that should think about the development of our country, to delegate resources throughout the country and do this instead of us. That's not possible anymore. We are obliged to allow citizens and citizens to create, at the intermediate stage between heterogeneous municipalities, an institutional level that will be closer to citizens and citizens, where they will participate more easily and co-decision on the development of a smaller unit. That's what Europe has. We say, so we're not mature. Citizens and citizens should just let Ljubljana think about our development. And now, where are we, where are we now in our country? We are by definition the most centralised country. Centralisation has its reasonable reasons, of course, because by building a local self-government of a large number of municipalities whose population structure ranges from 500 to 300,000 people, the state has failed to contact them all with the kind of debt we would like, and then we cry that some environments get less, more and more. However, we do not allow them to unite institutionally and act stronger against the country. Not only are they performing, but we are delegating the tax money that is being collected in the state budget today and only 12% of the public revenues are those available to local communities today; in Europe we see that these percentages are between 24% and 30%, this money, these public revenues will be delegated at the same time as the powers, with which the state will recognize that they are being reduced substantially and in a more balanced fashion for its inhabitants. That's all we're talking about. And you tell us that in Slovenia this time has not yet matured, with all this knowledge that we are centralised, that most matters are decided by ministries at the country level, that they are difficult to negotiate and coordinate with such heterogeneous municipalities - intermediate structures, but not. And all your programs and all your messages in these four years from this town are calling for us to do something. And there is no reasonable reason for you to block today with unprofessional and populist arguments and you will completely reject, as has been reported, this constitutional change. Which means that there are still small congregations, a country that thinks about everything, and dissatisfied citizens who feel that somewhere on the estranged pedestal someone is thinking about development, and they think that certain measures would make it much easier for them to develop their environment. Mr. Pache said, "Yes, because the Korean province law was passed at first reading." It was already in 1999 that there was an urgent need to do something and in at least one way, in accordance with the existing constitutional provision, to enable the municipalities to connect. The law on promoting coherent regional development has therefore been adopted. He defined the framework of twelve statistical regions, but the Commission and the Government, of course, learned at that time and found that these frameworks were sick in the circumstances that there were no original agents of action because they did not have the original resources for their operation. If you read at least half a metre of material on this topic, you will see that this is a sufficient and very important professional argument that me-time integration alone does not allow for the level that these institutional frameworks would need. The mayors of Koroška, twelve municipalities have actually taken advantage of all the mechanisms of the existing legal provisions and are taking very important action in relation to the country with regional projects - so that this second step in the model is extremely important. And as pressure was put forward in 2000 a substantial number of proposals, laws for the establishment of individual provinces, such as - the first is, of course, the law on the Korean province, then the law on the province of Posavje, the White Landscape, the Lower Podravje. All of this shows that these areas have become aware that, without integration in the intervention of the state structures, they will be less successful. Finally, candidateing for European funds for the Structural Funds also requires the preparation of regional projects. And we don't give them tools to do that at these levels. Whether this is a regional framework with some powers at some stage or we are going to build another level is irrelevant. It is important that if we do not accept these constitutional changes, we will do nothing. Because I claim with full responsibility that in the area of at least 12 municipalities in the framework of the Koror region, the Council of the Carinthian region, they have taken advantage of all the legal options offered by the State today, including the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It's not going anymore. Believe it or not, it is. And you didn't listen to this expert argument. What else is of particular importance? Also, in terms of establishing its structure in 1995, when we pursued the goal of establishing a clean local government on the one hand, the state administration did not succeed the most. We all admit that. Therefore, the amendment to Article 121 is extremely important. This change is also within this framework, which means an opportunity for the state not only to correct it, but also to bring citizens and citizens closer to it, because it will also be possible for local communities to be entrusted with these tasks, i.e. those that will be closer to citizens and citizens, but will not be able to reach that point. Of course, the European countries are growing these pure divisions, local self-government on the one hand, the state administration on the other. These structures build up like amphibians when this is more rational and more meaningful, etc. We will not be able to start this process because without amendment to Article 121, we cannot. In fact, it is likely that the debate, or debate, will now be established, that it is not known what it will be, that it will be too expensive, that it will be just like some new political bivocateurs for political parties. The main objective of the LDS policy option in pursuing the creation of a second level of local self-government is to build it in such a way that it does not undermine the functioning of local communities and state administrations. This has been our goal since the beginning. How many degrees - Mr Moge, will discuss, for sure, because I know his view and I very much understand, the different levels of NUTC-2, NUTC-3, etc. This reflection will surely await us in the future. But that we are at this stage of awareness and professional arguments - once again, I stress that we are very correct and thank the expert commission - which has acted in the Constitutional Commission to look for such arguments, you offer us arguments that do not hold back and in fact deny them at the end, and I mean the SLS Group is political arrogance. The message to people in Slovenian space is that we do not trust that smaller identities in Slovenian countries would be more able to build, think, create their own development than a capable country. This message, however, is at this stage of democracy, which I hoped was very bad in Slovenia. I would like citizens and citizens to be able to participate as much as possible in the development of their environments. I conclude and express once again exceptional sadness, which, once again, I stress, your arguments are not professional. It can be demented at any moment, think of what kind they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u45	Thank you very much. My colleague Peca thinks he's been misquoted or misunderstood, so I'll let him have the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u46	The rules of the legislative procedure are, of course, clear in this House, called the National Assembly. The Croat Region Act was in parliamentary procedure, and even the first hearing ended positively. This means that the existing Constitution has enabled and still allows municipalities to unite in terms of achieving or pursuing higher objectives. It is true, however, that the change of constitution, as you offer it to us at this time, in no way builds on the existing constitution; even more, it offers an empty option. So to say that [[Quote]] "without arguments so far there has been a debate", the arguments would just show if they were also pursued in constitutional changes by a roof law that clearly defines powers, tasks and, above all, funding. And just such kind of talk, as they were speaking before me, is misleading - to offer people again a new, empty form and a promise of new landscapes. Yes, please! The whole point of the province is to live. There is no sense in the province that it is only written in the constitution and never attains its goal. But with such a way of working, with such constitutional changes as you offer us, without knowing the content without knowing about the tasks, especially the financing, it is completely irrelevant. Therefore, I say that it is very demagogic to exercise its true self, as the speaker did, in the sense that these changes offered today represent the future and the only light way to enter into force. First of all, we found out that the Coroner Province Act was in the process, but unfortunately, you didn't adopt it - on the basis of an existing constitution. Now you are offering a solution that does not carry either rights or tasks or funding. How can you expect any province, of course not just Koroška, to come to life?Oh, my God! So much for fixing it. And I would like to ask that in the future the speakers are more correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u47	Irma's colleague? [[No, no, ……]] Franz Kangler, you have the floor. Joseph Jerovšek, I do not think that you are entitled to the replica, indeed; this is not the wrong statement because you have not yet discussed and no one has misquoted you or misunderstood you. Franz Kangler, please. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u48	Vice President, will you make an order so I can speak?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u49	I will. Comrade Jerovšek, please calm down so that Franz Kangler can begin the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! A fellow Member, Vice-President of the National Assembly, mentioned in the introduction my name and surname. Fortunately, it's my turn now, too, as a debater. And I will take so much time - although I want my debate to be brief and constructive - because I would like to explain some things to my colleague Irma myself. And, fellows, I respect you, if I have ever been offensive to you, I apologize, even this time I do not wish to be offensive to you; with all due respect today you may have been insulting to my political option, to the party when you expressed the arrogance of the Slovenian People's Party. My colleague Irma, there's been a lot of talk lately about the arrogance of the LDS summit to some of the content points and I'm glad that you have the same attitude as you said here today. However, colleague Irma, I used to laugh at you solely because I am glad that you are taking such a stand. But I am so sad that you are so naively blind that you do not see what is behind this, behind these changes, and you are not afraid of what some Members, who also come from my political option or the Slovenian People's Party, are afraid to speak today all on average, point their fingers at the Slovenian People's Party. My colleague Irma, we have been and will be constructive in this matter. Tell me when and in what way and in which way the Constitutional Commission has already agreed in advance or even in the previous coalition that, for example, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who are Italians or Hungarians, will have priority in terms of priority and privilege, for example, to establish their own provinces on the basis of a draft constitutional law, such as the amendments to Articles 121, 140 and 143. We have written this down, in the area of municipalities where Italian or Hungarian nationalities live autonomously, a plot is formed with a statute. I respect my colleague Robert Battelli, including Pozsončeva, I have nothing against minorities, they have a right, but these are part of our country, this is part of the Republic of Slovenia, these are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have the same rights as us. And if we give one chance to establish, in an area as it is in the draft, with a special statute, with a special law of the province - can you then convince your colleague Lydia, who comes from there, that in the area of the Drava Lower Field, you would not have your own province? Is it, for example, in the White landscape or do I not know where else, when they have twice or five times more inhabitants or the number of inhabitants than they have in the Italian or Hungarian territory? Before we accepted the changes, you favoured two areas to get your land. Already in advance! And in this way you will not reach the two-thirds majority. And no one's going to point out to me that we have a fig in our pocket or that we're not constructive or like you said we have political arrogance. That's not going to work, and I'll be honest with you. And also, colleague Irma, I would also like to explain to you that the best way to see such a law is to divide the judicial, executive and legislative branches of power into three provinces, as far as Slovenia can overcome them. Funny thing is, the idea is not a bad, legislative, judicial branch of power or an executive branch of power. I'm thinking mostly about those human resources things here. And look, I respect you, colleague Irma, you have worked very hard on the electoral law in the European Parliament, very much. I'm thinking mostly about women's quotas. With all due respect, we have also made those changes that go by the key, the clamps or that women should be equally represented - you have done much. However, I ask you, you have a great role in the LDS, why you were not on the list of others, and I would be happy today to have at least one MEP from the seven MEPs, Koroška, Prekmurje or Styria. We don't have any! You think it's funny again, but you're upset about my words. That's all it really is. And the actual situation is also what we have on the table today. And such changes in the way you insist that some favoured areas, as we have written here, with all due respect for these inhabitants, are not acceptable to their provinces. In my personal opinion, Slovenia has a maximum of three provinces. We have three universities, clinical centres and the like, and if we do not, in the short term or in the next term, whoever will be elected to this National Assembly will also speak, above all, the most important thing will be how the country will share its functions, tasks, obligations and the law on the financing of the provinces, which will ensure that the province will live in its own way. You mentioned that we now have small municipalities on the one hand and a country, which many LDS mayors are mayors of a small municipality, and no matter what political options come from, I must frankly say that small municipalities have come to life well, that they have learned what local self-government is and that progress and development in local self-government have indeed experienced a climax in the newly-established municipalities. What is important, however, is how the congregations are to be integrated into future provinces, which is very important. And if Slovenian political space agrees that we will start designing the provinces and that we will get a very large number of landscapes, frankly, colleagues and colleagues, tell us how we will meet in an equal and partnership manner with some of the provinces that are in neighbouring countries, which are also full members of the European Union at the same time, either in Austria or in Hungary or in Italy. And on the one hand, we're going to have a province with 5,000 or 10,000 inhabitants, and on the other hand, we're going to have a province with a few million people. If you want to be an equal partner and we need to have at least Slovenia divided into as many provinces as the country overpowers the system as Europe will accept in this way. And today we are here to point out, I think, that it is necessary to have a political compromise; that we should come to a political compromise in such a way that others, who are members of this political group, Parliament, should be heard and would not want to discuss it again. I hope someone didn't blame me for speaking purely of my personal views of the change of constitution and of the provinces. Once again, I would like to stress that you will insist on amending the amendment, where in the Italian and Hungarian nationalities, they can be formed by the law of the province, that such changes cannot be supported - with all due respect for both nationalities - but I am sure that the province and local self-government are one. These people of other nationalities, who live and have exactly the same rights and responsibilities in these areas as all those of Slovenian nationality, as well as those of local communities in which Italian and Hungarian nationalities live mainly, can be incorporated equally and equally into the future province and into the future system of local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u51	Thank you, Comrade Kangler. Replica, Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u52	Thank you very much. First of all, with all due respect to Mr. Pechet. Just an explanation. You have an explanation from the government, an explanation, and an expert committee confirms it. All laws, including the Coronation Act, cannot be passed before the system law on the provinces because they have no content. The system law on the provinces cannot be adopted before the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is amended. So all these laws are nothing more than exerting pressure on political parties to imagine and cross the threshold of their narrow thinking and enable the country to decentralise. Mr. Kangler! I thank you for your apology. You really hurt me when you quoted me, if I don't care about the Koroška, and that, of course, tells me I don't care about the Styrofoam. I didn't care. I didn't care. Your assessment is that your client's conduct has been constructive all the time. Today I am almost a drop, according to the local words, Mr Kangler, when Mr. Podobnik, once again from this beautiful place in the middle of the round hall, communicated your new position, your new position, which has not yet been communicated by Mr. Rokavec on the Constitutional Commission. How, then, can we talk about the constructive functioning of this customer? That is why I feel that this is an arrogant question that we really want to resolve. Mr Kangler, you sent me to Europe with the thesis that at that time we would really show that we respect regionalisation - wrong, Mr Kangler! For me, if I am in Europe, our country, because I am from Koroška, will not be more democratic and decentralised. I want my Koroški and Korošice to think their development in a different way than they can think today. That's what I want! And if you're talking about three landscapes - why not, like, landscapes in terms of parliament and so on! I am talking about Koroška as a development region that needs more money, which needs more institutional tools to think about its development. Read possible country breakdowns, NUT 1, NUT 2, NUT 3 and so on. So please. But we will never be able to talk about these rates in this country, because you simply do not allow us to take the first step, this is a constitutional change. And all the rest is conjecture and arguments that aren't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u53	Comrade Peca, what did you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u54	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Neither the legislative nor the executive branch of the Authority has identified these new facts when the Coral Region Act was first examined. [[...]] I don't want to tell you anything but: the basis for the province is already in the constitution, it's a bad foundation, but it's about as bad as in the proposal proposed by the government, because constitutional change does not define tasks and does not provide for funding. And as long as you accept such constitutional beauty repairs, we will not take a step forward in this country. The position of the National Party on this and similar issues: not to adopt legislation for the sake of law, not to accept it because we can tell the public that we did it. Let's take it for content. And this constitutional change has no substance, with this constitutional change you will only cause the following fact that the landscape will not yet deal with empty content and that is the regret of these constitutional changes. It is therefore reasonable to reject these constitutional changes, to approach those that will have consequences and finance and tasks, the content of the provinces. What you are doing now, however, is an exclusively political game with the aim or by pursuing the goal of creating a political apparatus that will be without jurisdiction, without tasks and without funding. The provinces must be here for the people, not you, the politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u55	We continue the debate. Private Cheligoy, would you like a word? No, no, no. Comrade Rockhead, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs - fix the wrong statement, absolutely! I have never specifically represented the position of the Group of Members on the Constitutional Commission, but part of the Group of Members. Never, never on behalf of the entire Group of Members. We can go watch the magnetograms. However, Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, I have always advocated the introduction of the provinces to the necessary agreement, political consensus. If a large part of the policy believes that a certain percentage of the consent of the municipalities should also be taken into account, then, if we want to respect the European norm, also the European norm in the drafting and setting of the European Constitution, as our President Sponik said, then sometimes we should agree to the so-called 'dead compromise' to keep the matter going. And today I have once again called upon all those parties who still have a problem with the two-thirds agreement to consider that you are also trying to bite into this hard apple and, of course, on this basis move on. Not, of course, for that fence to insist at all costs, even at the cost of not moving the constitutional change. But I don't think it's a political and national action, not from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u57	We continue the debate. Mrs. Irma, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u58	Thank you very much. It's just that my statement wasn't wrong, Mr. Rokavec, it wasn't wrong. The consent of the municipalities was never a condition of the Slovenian People's Party: not on Brdo and never before, and this shows your constructiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u59	Celigo, do you want to discuss it? No, no, no. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Well, if we look at history, we find that intermediate levels of government have always been created in a way that was organised by representatives of the central government. So the landscapes were coming from above down. Today we have written in the constitution that the local communities themselves are trying to form the provinces, so it is somehow a discrepancy with the known historical facts that have led to the establishment of the provinces. It is therefore necessary to change the Constitution in order to achieve the province, to organise the provinces in Slovenia as well. Of course, it is a very big question of how to take this step. I believe that it is necessary to have a truly clear position in this regard, particularly with regard to the Government and the National Assembly, that it wishes to transfer certain tasks to an intermediate level and that it may then make it easier to carry out those tasks that are primarily needed by citizens and citizens, and that this is more accessible and even faster to deal with individual issues. The solution set out in the proposal by the Constitutional Commission also suggests that if one of the municipalities disagrees with the inclusion in the specific province, it may also hold a municipal referendum and decide to join the neighbouring province. It seems to me that this solution is very well complementary to the desire for a so-called agreement on where a congregation should be, in which province, because, after all, it is crucial that people in the referendum decide where they will be if they are in such a situation that they have to make a decision. At times, the consent of the congregation council is also tailored to the interests or to the current assembly in the congregation and sometimes does not reflect the whole will or the majority will in the congregation. Therefore, it does not seem so crucial to me that we really speak of the congregation’s agreement, but it seems to me that at some point in time when the provinces come, even with a referendum, the individual congregation may decide otherwise than the law adopted by the national assembly on the organisation of the provinces. But I'd like to draw attention to some more facts. If we are already talking about the provinces, it would probably be very important to discuss whether these provinces will also have the power to adopt their own legislation, which will create concrete solutions, competences; this is one of the very important chapters, and whether we are deciding whether or not we are deciding on the provinces. Of course, this must also be followed by the financing of these tasks, and all of this must be very well thought out before we decide to establish the provinces. And I think that without clear answers, particularly on these two questions, it will be very difficult for me to reach two-thirds of the votes of all those present, who, if so recorded in the Constitution, will vote on this in the National Assembly. However, I think if I conclude that it is really easier to get to the provinces if we change the constitution. If we leave this to local communities, we will never come to the state that the whole country will be organised with the provinces, but will remain intermediate areas where this interest will not be so pronounced, and of course the provinces in those areas will not come, which means that it is also very difficult to make decisions, to transfer competences and, of course, to carry out all the necessary procedures that follow. It also seems important to me that we remember that Slovenia is in the European Union and that there are certain powers within the province, of course, even in individual countries, and it might not be bad for us to make an analysis of how we can survive and market in a particular province. If we just remember that Slovenia, as a whole, has a relatively small market, it is an even smaller market if we are looking only within the province. Many of the rules in the European Union apply to the provinces and can thus be a very large limit for certain activities, especially if we are talking about agriculture, which is one of the most vulnerable, if it has a small market, because a certain amount of products you can sell within the province and create within the country may be too small to provide a favourable price on the market. Of course, this aspect of Slovenia's placement in the European Union and this experience of the provinces in the European Union must also be analysed and then decided on this extremely important step. Without these analyses, of course, this can be worse than a better solution. Thus, before further deciding on this matter, of course, he would strive to have as much data as possible before making a final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is given to Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Since I did not have the floor for the replica before, I must protest that you so interpret the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vice-President, I am sure that you will be avenged, as the party has already avenged itself in the elections when it drowned because it is no longer. Such service to orders is also unproductive for you. So much for the intro. In fact, Mrs. Krebs was talking about political arrogance. This is a perfectly right topic for debate. Indeed, in this country we are also witnessing an extraordinary political arrogance in the area of the establishment of the provinces, but colleague Irma has served or has been ordered to use the method of "take the thief" and pointing at us here, to the opposition parties, although political arrogance is the fundamental feature of this coalition. The great political arrogance is actually a hallmark of this coalition, and it is no wonder that it came into complete contradiction with itself when she talked about what they want and what the opposition does not want. I believe that the colleague even believes what the party's leaders write on paper and that she sees no deeper, does not see in the political background, does not see the political objectives of what is written on paper, but it is known that none of the parties involved in this coalition think so. To offer people a brilliant image, however, the practice is completely different. By quoting from the book, she spoke of the dispersion of power. Yes, it would be nice if your proposals went in this direction to really anticipate and enable the establishment of some local, some local level of power with powers, with the possibility of action, with funding - all this is in the fog. You don't want to introduce yourself and you don't want to introduce yourself! This, however, should be done by means of legislation, both with declaratory and doctrinal acts before constitutional change takes effect. You go the other way: convincing people that they have no hope of a bright future, which they have no basis for. How should we put our faith in so - called political arrogant people? It is not about dispersion of power, it is on the table when you are so violently defending all the participations of citizens and citizens, but it is about concrete political power in the event that you lose the fall national elections, which is now a high probability. And, of course, this fear, this different thinking of citizens and citizens gives you an incredible fear, an incredible populism, an incredible demagogy when you show what you want to change. In the event of a loss of power at national level, you would like to build an intermediate level that would allow you long-term political power without recognising the results of the elections. Krebs' colleague said that "we are obliged to allow citizens and citizens" to participate, but I agree with that. We are all obliged to ensure together and this participation is guaranteed by the Slovenian Constitution. Practical action, including these proposals, goes against it. If you are obliged, if we are obliged to ensure participation, whether the municipal councilors are the representatives of the people's choice, the human will to at least participate in a small segment. Why don't you accept that some quorum of consent is still needed? Why is your position in such a contradiction and so contrary to what the Republic of Slovenia has demanded and represented and achieved in the adoption of the European Constitution? Is it not also on the European scale that Slovenia has a region whose interests would be directly bred if this dual majority were not reached when making decisions? Why do you have a similar method for a region, for these peripheral parts of Slovenia so terrible motto in the Slovenian case, on the Slovenian level? Why is it this duality - that you speak one thing in Europe, that you represent another and implement here in Slovenia? And I would like to say that I do not agree with this theory that it is not possible to build, even after the current stop, the landscapes from below. If you provide funding and delegation of authority, I assure you that it is possible to do so. If you had made available to some province the funds you had made available in the past year, by squeezing down the billions and billions of dollars of corruption, ensuring that a region was created and, in principle, "which comes sooner, sooner, earlier" that you would, say, give the money that you sent through the SIB to the bank 3 billion. To, say, for one Maribor region, let's say the billion that you've allowed through bankruptcy managers to go into private pockets. For example, to make available for Koroška the money that went into private pockets with such privatisation of the system’s technique in Ravna. If that money were on the table, and the congregations knew, we could use that money for our projects, they'd agree overnight. Make available this year's 10 billion corruption money, which has run into private pockets and say, it will no longer happen, 10 billion money will be made available for the second year, but the province that will wake up first will organise the first one and reach a consensus first. You have your consent on the table tomorrow! You literally have a consensus on the table tomorrow, because for this money, the municipalities, through the mayors, will be in charge of fulfilling the positive intentions of their citizens. You don't want that! That's not what you want. So far, there has been no political will to prevent corruption and in this way to establish an internal level of local self-government, corruption in Slovenia will increase further. So that we can set up exactly what our people expected, without the full consent of the congregations! This means that through these levers you will lead corruption if it is not possible at state level. Come on, once you have the political will to give this money, you'll stop one corruption affair - action. Here was also a literal representation of the "white mice" in the eyes of some LDS Members with a slightly changed view of the People's Party! I think it's positive and commendable that this client has finally missed it. When you signed the coalition treaty, you now admit that you only accepted it as a coalition for the sake of making the provinces on your own. But you bullied her. You also did not delegate to the supervisory boards of banks and funds their representatives. They were despised, and now they're overlooking it. Now they are overlooked, and this is also pointed out by their mayors, who have quite a field presence. And I think that's an expression of that participation and human will. In the European elections, this concept, which you are offering, has already been rejected, voted against and it is convincing. At the same time, these elections supported a life-long view of the establishment of landscapes, of the regional problem - the life-view that is present in the European democratic and human parties that bear the brunt of this project in Europe. And it is not surprising that they wished for the convincing victory of this party, who look for the establishment of the provinces and the functions of the provinces. Why don't people trust the concept you're offering? Because, as already mentioned, no content is offered, no powers are offered and no financial platforms for future provinces are provided. This legislation could also be adopted by means of transitional provisions in order to apply when the Constitution is amended. People would know exactly what political representatives are going to do. Do not underestimate people so that we can make fun of them in the long term or make fun of people so that respectable European standards are not important and necessary. It's necessary! I hope that respect for European standards will also force this country to respect this in the area of the establishment of landscapes, the attitude towards regional issues. How can people trust if, I think, the president of the liberal academy is talking about people not being able to imagine Slovenia as a pre-modern platform. To refer to Slovenia with "Plancharia"! Yeah, well, that's if Slovenia's a farmyard, then you're the one who created it. [[...]] You have created Slovenia, an administrative and political model, you have created, fingered and talked about the planchary of Slovenia! You always rely on people not to know what it is, not to understand, not to constantly fall for some provocation - I think this time is over. And here, Mr Strain is also talking about how some fear can happen if they do not think properly in time. So that it can happen that they are established, penetrated, bought by smaller customers. This means that Mr Strain acknowledges that in the past you have bought the favor of smaller customers. This is a very important confession.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u63	Comrade Jerovšek, but we are in the constitution and regions, Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u64	I have never before had written evidence that any customer has been bought, a small client, and here is evidence that a smaller customer has been bought in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u65	Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u66	Wait, the president of the liberal academy is writing about it. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u67	There are also a lot of articles on traffic accidents, but today we are not talking about them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u68	I say what the Liberal Democracy offers to people with its proposal for regional self-government. [[...]] It's from Saturday's annex. And I can probably talk about it. Now you have problems that on this project it was not possible to buy one of the smaller customers. You talk about it -- I don't know what happened -- that these little parties suddenly don't listen to it anymore. They do not obey as planned and determined. And respectable colleagues, it's time to take the results of the last elections into your hands to take them seriously, to seriously explain them, to seriously interpret them. People don't like and don't want to buy the fog you're offering them to prevent all the participation of congregations and people. It's all right. I am not saying that this participation or consent must be taken absolutely. But with some quorum, as it was reached for decision-making in Europe, this is a European norm, I think. And if you don't accept these European standards, I don't believe that people will reward it. And last but not least about this minority amendment. Look, I have to say, I'm holding back on this, even though it's changing from hour to hour. Here, now I do not know which variant applies, but when we discussed it once before, I specifically pointed out how dangerous the dictatorship of the special statute, which associates with the special statute of free market territory at the same location, which was neither the territory of the netting of Yugoslavia nor the present Slovenia, but it is associated with some other state creation with which the sovereignty of Slovenia would, of course, be null or void. I think our constitution has already been well defined, positive legislation also, the rights of minorities and the duties of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. For if we put this into effect, then we cannot have the Primorska as a province of history; for then bilinguality would spread to the whole of the Sea. Who's in? I think that, in some way, even in these elections, people have rejected such an excessive exercise of this, even by rejecting a list and the preferential voice of someone else who does not mean it, such a policy of this party. Look, I'm gonna be straight. I am also concerned about what my colleague Battelli - the shame that he is not here - was that when our delegation was in Rome, the foreign political committee, when it was bluffing, what we would open up, what we would stand for, said that it was not necessary to return the cultural goods of the Italian country that had been removed from our territory during the war and fascism. When he claimed that only the Vatican and the Republic of Italy could negotiate cultural goods, paintings from Piran, which is an ecclatic denial of Slovenia's sovereignty in this territory. And if there are ideas on the head that eloquently deny sovereignty by the signatory to this amendment, I cannot support such thinking. And I warn you - this idea was then even rejected by the Italian minister, but it was expressed at our meeting and then I wonder here where such proposals actually measure, why minorities seem to be deprived in this country, why they do not seem to be able to exercise their rights under the Constitution. At the same time, of course, it is legitimate to propose such amendments and also to demand such rights, which is legitimate. However, as I have already said, here I have concerns and I think that the proposals mentioned should also be read among the lines, just as a colleague could read his client's suggestions among the lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I'm giving my word to Anton Botolene.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings from the President, colleagues and fellow Members. We are actually not seriously discussing serious matters. We read the Saturday annex in Parliament on Wednesday, while the citizens read it already on Saturday. Otherwise, I went to look at what we are discussing, and I found that we are discussing a constitutional change in the setting up of the provinces, so I will try to be very specific and I will limit myself to what is on the agenda. In fact, the fundamental issue or the constitution is that we want to change the way the landscape is established, not so much content. However, the content of these provinces will also be essential to the way in which they are established. The question, in my opinion, is, of course, whether the province will be the second stage of local self-government - and only this - whether it will also be the lowest level of state regulation, i.e. amphibians. If there is only going to be a second degree of local self-government, then we need to ask ourselves what can be carried to this second stage. To the area from which I come we have established a joint municipal administration, transferred to, say, the future landscape of space management, waste collection, municipal inspection, co-establishment of a municipal company, library, healthcare home and more. I no longer see what else we could bring from the congregations to the province. This, of course, is not enough for the province. It would, of course, be necessary if this were just a second stage of local self-government, then it would be imperative that the congregations agree. But in this way the local self-government of the second degree, the province, cannot survive. What matters is what the country will transfer to this province. In my opinion, more than 70% of the country's transferred workaround and less than 30% of the local community must be transferred in the province's future workaround. However, if the State and the ministries transfer certain not only obligations but also finances and staff, especially staff, to the second stage of this local government or to the provinces, which will simultaneously be the first stage of the state administration, it is logical that such a province can be established by law. Apart from the fact that the landscape will be by measure of people, it is of course particularly important that we focus on efficiency and economics. The establishment of the provinces should not significantly increase the state bureaucracy, such or otherwise, but rather, if we are to transfer powers, transfer the work circle, transfer finances, transfer personnel. This makes sense, but the State cannot maintain this second level. Rumor has it that we have to hurry too quickly, that we have to hurry even more slowly. The question is, What else could be the pace that would be slower than it is now? Thus, in fact, when we speak only in some way with this constitutional change, what will be the way of establishing the landscapes, we do not, in fact, prejudge what the content will be, but what is, of course, essential is what someone under the content of this second stage, which is the lowest level of government, represents. If you truly see it as a second stage of local self-government, then I stress once again, it is logical to insist on the two-thirds consent of the congregations, but if we picture it as I imagine it, then I do not think it necessary, so I will support these constitutional changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u71	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I welcome all present. I join the forerunner because he's one of the few who's talked about content. Actually, it bothers me, like, if I mention from the beginning, a change in the constitution. We play with this constitution like it is, I don't know what it is, like some kind of submarital act that we can change every third day. I imagined the Constitution a little differently than some foundation of all laws, so you can't just change it like that. Someone remembers that you have to solve some problem, the problem stops at the stop, then with a power argument does it, and then the boat moves on. I also commended Mr Presbyterian because we have listened to one single argument so far, whether it is a pre-election struggle or not; mainly, some persuasion without arguments, some quotes, rivers, monologues, demagogies - in short, words. In this particular proposal, which is now on the table, I see in fact some sort of insinuation to the people of something. Thus, we will not ask the people most affected by this, the citizens, what will happen to their destiny, what the region means to the congregation. Nowhere is it written how this region would work, what powers this region will have, whether it will burden the country, or whether this centralisation will water it - thank God, if that were true! Only, I fear that it will only strengthen him, because in this case it seems to me that the congregations will become, more or less, more than some slightly better local community. If it continues like this, they will disappear completely. So we're experimenting on something just to experiment, not to have any of it. I'm sure we all want it to be some of this, but it's not the way. I remember so many years ago, those famous smiths. It was some kind of experiment, if, a plausible thing that would make us all happy, and then in the end, we all, I'm sorry, "delayed." In all this matter, for example, when we think today, the Minister of the Interior - he was saying something, Minister, Mrs Kovaceva, who should be interested, who could also give some answers to some question, what a convincing opinion, what a program that means what the goals are - so it is simply not. That's my opinion, my view. I may not be right, but it seems to me that it would be imperative to clear up a matter. So this is a pale proposal for something, some changes and a pale proposal to change the constitution, sorry, this is not acceptable. And I will not support such proposals because I do not intend to take responsibility for myself, so I will vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor and invite Mr. Vissiak. Here you go. You don't want to. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'd say we've heard a lot of excuses today, so we can't get to the countryside. Let's try to remember how things started. It began with this, with the general conclusion that we have an over-centralised country, that the differences in the development of individual Slovenian regions are too great and that something has to be done. It began by finding that we have a constitution that makes it impossible to establish provinces, which would also be a generator of more proportionate regional development in Slovenia. In the previous term, the Group of Members, with the first-signed Lavrinsk, tabled a proposal to amend the Constitution to delete Article 143. Today, however, we are hearing discussions on the content of the landscapes. All the debates are focused on the content, on what should be discussed when we even remove the obstacle so that we can start adopting the law and discuss the content there. So we could go back to the beginning and say, and then just delete article 143, which is an obstacle to the establishment of the provinces. And the debate is over. It's not really that complicated. It's a simple matter. But we've complicated it. We from LDS are experiencing the obvious that we have been in power for so long and that we have not done enough ourselves. However, the truth must be kindly told about the coalitions we were in. We've never been to a 2/3 coalition, and we all know we need a 2/3 coalition if we want to change the constitution. So we didn't have this option, even though we've been reopening it to you, and now that we've also had about two thirds of the coalition, the government has come up with a proposal that I think is still the best. Today, however, we have a proposal for positions that are the subject of a compromise. And this compromise is the realization that we can get to 2/3 with such a proposal, some compromise is an approximation of what the SLS or its representatives have proposed. Today, however, the SLS, which is no longer with us in the coalition, recalls the agreement of two thirds of the congregations and so on. Well, I must say that I am already used to this way of operating our former coalition partner, who is considered to be that if you agree on something in the morning, it is not necessary that this afternoon also applies; on the contrary, it is true that this afternoon no longer applies. For whom it is true that if you make a deal with a representative of the Group of Members, it does not mean that you have reached an agreement with the Group of Members; rather, it means that you may have agreed with it and it is not necessarily with him either. That's how it works, and that's why it's complicated. The SLS, however, was the one who proposed this compromise and, after discussions, I suppose it will not support it. It's a great principle. Let us imagine what would have happened in this country if all the parliamentary groups had behaved this way in this House. Would we even have a country? I highly doubt it. But answer that for yourself. I'm saying it's an escape. And, of course, we have to ask ourselves, what is the purpose of this evasiveness and these excuses. In my opinion, there are only two possible objectives: one is not to change the constitution at all and not to reach the provinces; the other is to give such strong criteria that the hunt for each Member will be open, as it will vote, and that compromise will require a great degree of agreement, which means a great probability of a large fragmentation on the provinces. So whether it's the provinces or the provinces by measure of the municipalities. And now, as far as principle is concerned. You're talking about the consent of two thirds of the municipalities, two thirds of the population. I also imagine that when we remove the barrier - and only the obstacles we are talking about - a procedure will have to be carried out where the municipalities will be involved in the formation of the provinces, where the border municipalities will have the opportunity to join different regions, where there will be a referendum where the will of the people and some positions of the municipalities will be tested. I totally accept that. But if we went to the congregations, what if we had in our constitution such an article that applies to the provinces and also to the congregations, and we set such obstacles - what obstacles would we put? Two thirds of the local communities should be for the establishment of congregations, or what? Tell me! Or two thirds of the population? No, you didn't set anything back then. Do you remember how you voted? You voted where people were against the municipalities where the referendum was held, you set up a congregation. What is your principle here now, my dear? [[Back-up advertising.]] Madam Vice President, please calm him down. So much for your principle. Yeah, you had power a few years after your independence, and we've always been in coalitions with you. We know what they were like. I've already warned you about that. There were 45, 46, and we were used to big, big blackmail and bartering. That's right, Mr. Rokavec. Well, that's your principled stance. When it comes to congregations, we will split apart, regardless of people’s ability, and when it comes to the provinces, it may be the same desire. Maybe that's why you're doing the same thing, but maybe you don't want the landscapes. Why don't you want them? You expect that you will be in power in the autumn, that you yourself will accept these provinces, without a two-thirds majority, of course you will not, but you may make a system that will suit you. But it's ironic that you're yelling at how much power we have in our hands and that we don't want to redistribute it, but you don't want to help redistribute it yourself. So you live on speculation. We'll be in power in the fall and we'll have all the power. And we don't want all the power, and you yell that we have it. Irony over irony. So, in any case, this compromise, the proposal of views, it was a compromise to understand each other. It paves the way for the possibility of major partitioning and of non-European regions. But it's better than nothing, so I'll back it up. Although it is the best option - Mr Rokavec, you have also suggested that I would like to know if you will do so according to your stated position - it is better than nothing, I said, and I will support that. But I'm not sure we're going to get to any quality landscapes. There's a lot of questions to be asked here. He wanted to make things right with the change of constitution, so why don't you read what the Constitution says about health care, about social life, or does it regulate every right that anyone in this title has? No, it's left to the law and the law. The Constitution travels, sets the basic criteria and enables certain things to happen. And it disables the landscapes. So let's just fix what's to be fixed, and then we'll make a deal, that's my point. As regards the amendment tabled by the representatives of the minority. There's been a lot of gallbladder on this amendment. This amendment has experienced some change, it's an amendment correction, as we see, which I think is going in the right direction. In particular, I personally do not think that a two-thirds majority of all would be necessary to regulate this as unnecessary, although it could be. However, I must point out that there are countries that are often qualified to have a much less regulated minority problem than we are, because we have the best bits that have special statutes in the provinces, even because of or mainly because of these minorities. Now, whether we want to name this special statute or not, that's another thing. In any event, the provincial statute will have to contain provisions that will be specific, which will be specific, due to the fact that a specified minority lives there. Let's call it what we want, but we won't be able to ignore that fact. Now whether someone wants to do politics here and pour bile about the vaccination of Slovenia, which is not true or not, that's another thing. But these special provisions will have to be if we are a serious country. After all, this comes from some international agreements, of which we are committed and so on. And it warns, bilinguality has been mentioned. The municipalities where minorities live also have statutes. They can be called special statutes, but they can be named statutes. Even if they are named by statute, they have special provisions which are linked to minorities. Also in these municipalities, bilingualism is not across the entire area and across the entire community, so it is purely a flood of bilinguality to introduce the entire area of future provinces, whatever they may be. Therefore, in reality, this amendment cannot harm the follow-up procedure and I will support it. As I have already said, I will also support this poor solution, although I very much doubt that we will come to constitutional change. Gentlemen who spoke from northeastern Slovenia, which is a few of you, who are major critics of constitutional changes, are aware that you live in an area that is by all criteria of development the worst developed in Slovenia, either a criterion on gross social product or a criterion on employment or unemployment, etc. Be aware that the only real decentralisation is institutional decentralisation, and all other laws on some funds that will be turned around in the centre will not bring about this under some criteria that bureaucracy will prescribe. If you want to do well with your people, fight for decentralisation, otherwise you just sell political bubbles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Just correcting the wrong statement from your debate? Mr. Rokavec, that's all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u76	Thank you. Only so much would he have misunderstood the debaters we were discussing in the direction of the necessary agreement of the congregations. In fact, I think it is absolutely wrong to think in the direction that those who seek to also allow municipalities to, of course, two-thirds of the municipalities in a particular region of the province, the number of people who need consent to establish a province, to avoid adopting these constitutional changes on the basis of this, because we will be able to accept this easier in the autumn when we have authority. This is the biggest madness. If this were really theoretically possible, then if, in theory, we were given the autumn power, of course, we are setting ourselves an even greater obstacle to reaching the landscapes, but this is a misinterpretation of the concept. This is mainly about understanding and clarifying the basic concept - what role we want to play in the process of establishing the provinces to the municipalities, or purely minimal or, of course, so important that the country will also have to work hard to get into the framework of the establishment of the provinces, which will also be at the wishes of the municipalities. I believe and argue that this second part is, of course, significantly harder for the country, but in the final stage for the functioning of the provinces, it is significantly better. I could also ask myself today why, for example, the LDS has already withdrawn the law on coherent regional development from this session twice, because I think this law would be necessary in order for a healthy precursor to the natural formation of the provinces. But he's just retreating. Because if we want to get to healthy landscapes, we can only get to them on the basis of interesting integration and integration, according to the interests of individual municipalities. The so-called top-down dictatorship has never occurred, but, of course, it is much simpler and easier. And there's one more thing about that indiscretion. In the previous session or the previous act of adopting views on constitutional change, the Liberal Democracy has also supported this amendment of nationality, Mr Terčon. This has never before been the subject of any coalition coordination or of any debate on the Constitutional Commission. But you immediately automatically supported it then, and that's your principle. Yes, that is not the way it works; if you ask others to do so, respect it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u77	Thank you very much. They're controversy. Please, Mr. Tarchoon, correct Mr. Rokavac's misstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u78	Since I was mentioned, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u79	It's not a replica to mention each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u80	So, all power comes from the people, both in a democratic state, and I think that's what we've been taught in socialism -- even the state government, including the provincial authorities and the municipal authorities, as well as the authority of local communities, if you will. I only asked you why you now play such an important role in the municipal government - because I said that the congregations should also be included - when it came to the congregations, and you did not give any role to the local communities. You have to give authority to the people, I said. It must be the people who make the decision. Why are you based on just one, an ethical group that can be a country, a province, or a congregation? And now you have the congregations for an excuse, for nothing but an excuse. Why, though, did you not ask the local communities when you were establishing the congregations and set up against the will of the people from whom all authority comes?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kontic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In the introduction, when I presented my position on behalf of the Group of Members, I said why it was necessary to support the proposed compromise proposal. But when I listened to some of my colleagues, especially Mr Jerovsk, I did not know exactly whether I was in the right session, whether I was at the right point or if I completely missed everything. However, it seems to me that Mr Jerovšek is the one who missed the essence of today's debate and did not discuss the provinces, at least not substantively. On the principle of individual actors of these changes, or those who have participated in the preparation of these positions, and on the basis of which we then accepted compromises, I would rather not speak because I do not like to say bad words, but I am afraid that this time some of our former coalition partners would escape needlessly. Wrongly, because later experts in this area taught me that it is impossible for someone to establish something above it, it is actually not possible and the Vice-President of the National Assembly has already spoken about it. Well, at that time, we have also introduced a law on the Savinij-Shale province, including with a view to informing this esteemed assembly and government that we wish to establish a province in our area in agreement with all the holy municipalities in this area and to agree with all the mayors in this area. And I already said that I would be most pleased if this law was not addressed in Parliament, but not because Parliament would first adopt amendments to the Constitution, then both laws that are both substantively and territorially necessary for the establishment of the provinces and therefore establish provinces throughout Slovenia without the grey foxes that would have arisen if the municipalities were merely to unite in the provinces. To talk about which personnel will be removed from the national level in the provinces, perhaps rewarded at the municipal level, is pointless to speak at this time. Elections will also be held in the provinces, and people will also decide in the direct elections who will be a member of the provincial council who will be in the province and then the staff will be offered, and people will determine who will sit in these provincial saints. Unwittingly, I get the feeling that we want to write in the constitution, in an article, a provision where we will write: "We have provinces in Slovenia", but in the second paragraph of the same article we could already write: "We will not have provinces in Slovenia." This is the way I hear it today, but when I listened to the representative of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, I quickly counted the votes, it is clear to me that we are discussing something today that there is no possibility of being accepted in this mandate. Therefore, at the end of my debate, let me express only the wish that it will be possible and that I really want the next composition of the National Assembly to overcome these obstacles and introduce the provinces into the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Puksic to the floor. Here you go. Mr Jerovšek and everyone else, please, the rules of procedure are clear, there is no replica if anyone mentions someone who has discussed before. The replica is that someone in his debate misquotes and uses the section from the discussion of the former discusser. Mr Jerovšek, if Mr Kontič is wrong about your statement from your rich debate, but I think he said he disagreed with you, but is this any way to fix it, Mr Jerovšek? [[...]] Correct the wrong statement, Mr Jerovšek, kindly please, please, please, you have the word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u84	Madam Vice-President, you mentioned me twice before, but I didn't get the replica, and now it was my turn and Mr Kontič stood up for my debate. Look, Mr Kontic, you mentioned that I probably didn't understand which debate I was in and what I was talking about. You were wrong or you weren't listening, I started with the political arrogance Mrs Krebs was talking about. So, she wasn't in the right debate today and on the right point of the agenda. Secondly, you may have been disturbed by the fact that I have X-rayed the real purpose of your proposals in my debate. That I've X-rayed the real purpose of your reasons, that I've looked a little bit between the lines, and I think it's very good and important that we, who know what levers of power you're using, what political technique you're using, what not to say too strong an expression, you're using tricks to tell the public who's watching us, who's listening to us, who's monitoring our efforts. And that's exactly what I was talking about and how I was talking about what the hidden intentions are or whether you want to concrete your political power through the fall elections, whether you lose them or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It's a replica of the replica. Please very briefly, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u86	It will be very short indeed, Madam Vice President. I agree with you, Mr Jerovšek, you have looked between the lines, so you have also missed the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u87	I invite Mr. Puksic to the floor. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, if we took a look at our guide back, we would find that today we are discussing a subject that we have already rejected in this National Assembly by vote. We threw it away because it was not ready because the ruling coalition had prepared it badly or because it was not good for those to whom it was intended. Or also because, of course, the ruling coalition wanted to remove such an important issue for the people. Of course, some of us objected. Therefore, today's observation by some members of the ruling coalition, when they find that there is no hope of reaching a two-thirds majority to change the Constitution in this area of Article 143 and the Constitution, is correct, but I do not understand why, when they know in advance when they have not agreed on the matter, they will decide that they will spend one day of debate again on something that does not bring any benefits, not substantive, but materially for citizens and citizens. Article 143 of the amendment of the Constitution itself states that the law on the province and its financing shall be adopted by a national assembly with two-thirds of the votes of the Members present. If the applicants had a serious purpose, of course, they would have long ago drawn up a law on the provinces, where it would be clear what functions and what tasks the state will transfer, i.e. from the state level to the province. However, if it is only by changing this constitution and by means of an adopted law that you abolish the congregation and make it back to the local community and transfer the jurisdiction of the congregations to the province, of course, we have hit the heart of this problem, which is, in fact, the most regrettable of all. This is, in addition to a failed and incompetent government, a successful and highly capable local community and community. If there is, then in these last ten years, many things have changed in this area, although, of course, under far different conditions. The comparison between some very wealthy congregations and, of course, those of whom you spoke about in your time, in your mandate, you will make a balancing in the regions, so that these differences will stop or begin to decrease, of course, you have done absolutely nothing. The pointers also show it, one way or another. And talking about changing the constitution to decentralize the country is totally nonsense and it's not serious. In your opinion, that is how it was heard in the debate, whether or not those Members of Styria would blame us, who would, of course, object to such a change in the Constitution, because the state would remain centralised and would decentralize it with this change. That's not true. That all the indicators are the worst in Styria and Prekmurje, you are, of course, responsible and guilty Members of the ruling coalition. You are the ones who have also adopted the so-called Regional Development Act in 1998 and have made no progress at all, but, of course, only to increase the differences. It is true, however, that it has provided some individuals with the possibility of enriching themselves for work not done or for nothing, but only for some administration by the state budget, as more than half of the funds that were before 1998 have been split for direct investment in municipal infrastructure, road infrastructure and other important matters. A serious approach to amending this Article of the Constitution would be to prepare a package, for the first time, of amendments to the law on the financing of municipalities, and for the second time, of course, to prepare both the law on the province and its financing, the way in which it is financed. If, of course, we had this, which would have entered into force when the Constitution was amended, then we could have achieved it by amending this Constitution by a majority of 2/3. That's not the way it is. Otherwise, the question today is: Did and why not, and how do we establish the provinces, if we did not, when we had many open funds in the European Union in the pre-accession negotiations, we did not know because we had an incompetent government to take advantage of it? And today, when the European funds are empty, I don't know what they would do with these provinces, except that, of course, we have new officials and a new administration, and then the government will decide once again that the lowest wages or workers will raise salaries by 2 euros, now there are five more because then only two would be picked up by this interim other government. Therefore, it is wiser to think, of course, about what to do in the economic field, so that, of course, the economy can breathe more competitively, relieve the pay system, relieve wages and, of course, automatically increase personal income, workers and workers in production, and if we really want to do something for decentralisation, colleagues and colleagues, then it is the transfer of institutions, transfer of certain institutions outside of Ljubljana. Of course, you have not done this in the 12 years and you will not for the last two months, as long as you still have authority, and later thank God you will no longer make that decision. And I believe that things will turn around so that a truly new government and a new coalition will do what you have been saying for 12 years, decentralisation does not work in Ljubljana at this speaker's desk, but decentralisation is done specifically with action. Of course, you were not able to do that, or you would have been able to do that, but you did not want to do that. Thus, of course, these differences have increased. These are the facts, these are the results, these are the indicators you have and who are talking about it. And then you talk about the planchary, yes, of course, you can talk about Maribor, about the planchary, if your minister says in the National Assembly that Maribor does not have a capable man who would run an electricity holding company, then it's a righarija for you. And the only thing is Ljubljana and the central Ljubljana region. There has been a great deal in this mandate to hear about how insignificant the people are, we are the ones who have been given a mandate and will decide on it. That was true. At the five referendums, the people rejected you and told you that they had not given you a mandate to do so. Therefore, even in this case, do not allow yourselves, and we must not, at least those who are aware of this, allow you to exclude people from making such important decisions. You are in this mandate alone, and I think that about 50 municipalities refused when the will was expressed, i.e. in those areas to set up municipalities, but in the previous term you established Zgornja Solčavo with 400 people who proposed your own, colleague and colleague ruling coalition. But that's what you did, and you broke the congregation with 2,200. In short, you have different standards. You have, of course, ours and yours, or for what is done to you by year, in contravention of the law, regulations, or even the constitution, which has also happened in this national assembly, and of course we would also like to do with these provinces. But once again, we're not going to let you do that. [[Back-up advertising.]] Madam Vice President, who has the floor?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u89	You don't mind Mr Jerovšek, do you? Please, peace in the hall! [[Laugh.]] [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u90	Wait, that's a lot of rudeness!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u91	So, cynicism. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u92	Mr Pukšič, this is very similar to what you accused half of the National Assembly when you said, "what suits you, do it, and it is contrary to the Constitution, laws and regulations," very similar. Please, if you'll continue
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u93	Well, you've been trying to do a lot. You have also done something contrary to the Constitution and also the law, but, thank God, this people at the referendums have rejected you. Well, Madam Vice-President, of course I thought it was my word, but it is also contrary to the rules of procedure that when the opposition Member speaks, the Liberal Democracy may speak, otherwise this is not allowed. However, this is contrary to the rules of procedure, but of course it is in line with the arrogance of the Liberal Democracy and you as Vice-President. As for the amendment tabled by Mrs Maria Possonec and Mr Roberto Battelli, I would just like to say this. I have heard many times from Mrs Marie Possonec in various places outside our country, that, as minorities are taken care of in the Republic of Slovenia, there is nowhere else, they have collective and individual rights, and that addressing minority issues can be a model for all other European countries. I agree with this, of course, and I think that the rights are, indeed, as Mrs Possonec said, because I know how it is taken care of by minorities in other countries, and in general how it is taken care of by the Slovenian minority in both Austria and Hungary, what is going on in Italy. I do not think that any further changes to the Constitution need to be ensured, since these rights are protected by the Slovenian Constitution, according to minorities, the best in Europe. That's why I won't support such an amendment. Well, lastly, I would just like to say this, it's not like you're talking about a part of a coalition contract that you wrote down that you're going to change the constitution for the establishment of the provinces in this mandate to implement the last minute before the 12th. However, if you have not been able to do so with arguments, as I mentioned earlier, to prepare certain legislation to do earlier, then it is a waste of time, every minute and a second in this direction, because if someone does not know something, cannot or does not want to do it, then let those who do it in favour of those for whom they will prepare it, not for personal or political interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Mojet's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. At this solemn session, where we are talking about amending the basic act, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I must say that I will disappoint you that I will not go into the party dispute, because on this holiday day, when we are talking about changing the Constitution, it seems almost unworthy to use that Latin expression that says "Audacter calumniare, semper orquid haeret." If you quote Dr. Anton Trstenjak, who said that we were too small to argue with each other, and now that we are submerged into the European pot, we should withdraw our strength and find that we will not stand up and become a second-class country. Why is that? For we are talking about the constitution and about changing it so much that regional policy will certainly come to life, which has not been in this country so far. We're talking about dividing power and dividing money, and this thing is still important at this point in our lives. If I go a few years ago when we adopted the Constitution in 1991, after the independence of Slovenia in 1991, the question arose of how to reform the so-called Kardelje municipality. Above all, smaller places have worked hard to get their congregations, which the country has also given them. And this result of the over-enrichment of small municipalities, which we have in Slovenia over 190, has led us to have a complete fragmentation of the country into municipalities that have a very small impact, but some of them are such poor people that all of them, since they were established, have not provided sufficient resources and live only on the state's mangers, so they are dependent on state budget resources. What such congregations mean politically, to produce each judgment on its own. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has already allowed the establishment of provinces in 143rd Article, it has proved to me, more than several colleagues and colleagues before me, that the content of the said article, by which the provinces are established by voluntary integration and transfer of part of the State powers to the new province or by agreement with it, is not appropriate for the State, since at that time the municipalities were unable to agree on a connection to the province and legislation such as it is, did not allow for the establishment of any province for more than a decade. Also, the proportion of resources mentioned by the country's budget for regional development, as you know, from year to year has been lower and lower than in the countries of the European Union, we are here. By the end of the 1990s, the country had only begun to realize that the formation of the landscapes would have to be regulated by law - but here we do not have to spill the ashes - and the country that negotiated with Brussels had to give in under pressure from the European Union to have only one province in Slovenia in the budget period until 2006, since it was only in a position to close the chapter on regional policy. However, since negotiations on the EU budget are starting within the Irish EU Presidency 2007/2013, the creation of the provinces of Slovenia is an up-to-date one because, among other things, it would be possible to draw more resources from the European Union's Structural Funds. Remember, in the statistical classification of territorial units, we were divided into the first level, where between 3 and 7 million will be, the country must be as one, that we are at the second level, where 0.8 is possible, and up to 3 million inhabitants, we have given in and we have remained at the second level. I think that's what we're talking about today when we're talking about the provinces, we're only left in one classification, so the whole country is also, if you say that one region, there's also one country, and that we're in the third classification of 150 to 800,000, and somehow also with those coherent regional development, when we first really talked about the regions, we got to the number, as far as I can remember, 14. Look at the economic consequences of centralisation in Slovenia - we all shouted in one voice at the time when we passed the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, that it was centralisation so that it could not be greater. That's when I said I'd support this marriage. Because this law is not centralisation, but that centralisation will develop only if we can get a model that will link the distribution of power to the provinces and thus to lower levels, to regions, or, if you want, to areas in this province. So, such fragmentation of the municipality on the one hand, almost entirely economic and political centralisation, the capital on the other, has led to great differences between Ljubljana and the rest of the country, this is not a secret, this is "urbi et orbi" we all know. The less developed areas of Slovenia today represent three quarters of Slovenian territory. The concentration of capital, high-quality jobs, economic and political power in one place goes hand in hand with the centralisation of economic development. As a result, only the central Slovenian region with Ljubljana and some regional centres achieve high economic growth. Whoever looks at the statistics will probably tell them I'm telling the truth. Even greater differences between the centre and the region will be due to this new tax reform that we have had. The social orientation of Slovenia, which will not be sustainable for the longer term, places the country in a position to increasingly centralise the revenue of the state budget due to the growing need for social transfers on the expenditure side of the state budget. That's a little artificially said, but in what bush does the rabbit touch? With the new tax reform, this will result in a reduction in tax burdens on the lowest income levels of the municipality, to which this is the main source of funding, about 40%, plus 9 billion tax revenues, because where it is underdeveloped, they are mostly living on the average of poverty. This will lead to a completely fiscal centralisation of the country, thus leading to the financial capabilities already mentioned by local actors to their full dependence on the state centre and thus to the current ruling coalition, whoever is already in power. This will continue to hamper Slovenia's efforts towards a cohesive national community. Greater differences between regions are exacerbating the quality of life of the people in different parts of the country, and then statistics tell you what is wrong with Prekmur, what is wrong with Haloz and what is wrong with other parts of the country. So what I'm saying probably has a tail and a head. Slovenia and the European Union, I said we were sunk in this pot. From an economic theory, there is an inexhaustible criterion for the effectiveness of regional policy, which is in the integrated functioning of the market. In the event that the differences are too great, there is, in our own market, no sustainable cooperation between the regions, and there is still constant pressure on the less developed ones. For the successful development of Slovenia, it is therefore crucial that the process of marginalisation of less developed parts of the country no longer continues. I don't know how many of us, who's trying to keep the centralisation, get it for such a partial, really to make things better here and there, and to get rid of it. However, this main rabbit does exist in this bush that we are talking about today. Slovenia, as a member of the enlarged European Union in the future, will be forced to work much more intensively with the neighbouring Member States of the European Union if it wants to respond to the environmental challenges. It is in this respect that monocentrism is most celebrated by our country, as an unevenly developed country in which economic power is concentrated in one place can face severe difficulties in connecting to neighbouring areas within the single national market. This is a particularly critical issue for Slovenia because it wants to maintain control over individual sectors and businesses do not join in cross-border cooperation with border communities. The State has always had to assist in the effort to obtain European Union funds, as these municipalities are too weak to cooperate with Austrian countries, Italian regions and Hungarian counties. It is clear from the outset that the establishment of regions would significantly improve opportunities for cooperation with these neighbouring regions also in competition for the European Union's regional and other funds. From this point of view, the interesting experience of the Republic of Ireland, where regionalisation was carried out mainly because of the increased possibility of obtaining funds from the European Union and by transferring a significant part of economic power and competence to the regions, significantly increased the potential for individual regions to influence their development. Dear colleagues, here I also had some material, an invitation to the bilateral forum of Euroregion - Austria Styria - Northeastern Slovenia. Our neighbours at this meeting were organized, they had legislation, they knew what they wanted, we did not have people from the regions of North-East Slovenia, somehow by statistics or similar, they were almost gone and we did not even have a formal territorial unit that could be a partner in these talks and with which, together with neighbouring areas, like the euro region, we could compete for means of communication either on the road or in any other area. As is known, the EU country is using the NCC classification to manage regional policy. Statistics are the one that provides the basis for the acquisition of funds. From the point of view of Slovenia, the most appropriate levels are NUTC 2 and NUTC 3, for which aid from the Structural Funds is still granted. So we have NEC 2 and NCC 3. We know that NCC 2 is now the whole country, but NCC3 is the 12 statistical regions. If Slovenia were qualified under NUC 1 as one province, as the EU requires, and now it is, the current EU region would only be ranked as the 70th city and the underdeveloped parts of the country would be eligible for lower funding from the EU Structural Funds. For Slovenia, it is best to reach the establishment of NUTC 2, 2 - 3 and NUTC 2, 13-14 in talks with Brussels, on the ground that, due to the smallness of the country, strengthening regional centres and polycentric development within Slovenia is essential, as otherwise some areas would be gravitated into the interest spheres of influential centres in the neighbourhood. In doing so, we must also be aware that regional policy will be one of the few that will remain within our competence after joining the EU. Only through it will economic policy be able to resolve the issues that are now part of income, fiscal and other policies in the future. What about experience in the European Union? Almost most of these things are already arranged there. The EU countries have national administrations organised at several levels - Austria, the country, France, the department, the UK, Italy, the region, Germany, the Netherlands regions, Belgium of the federal unit, etc. All these countries are aware that different Community self-governments can run for EU funds through the Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics. The NCC does not determine the competences of these self-government communities, but rather that they are intended to increase the economic competitiveness of less developed areas. EU countries are aware that increased unemployment and a sense of exclusion from the decision-making system are consequently an obstacle to integration, as it would create fertile soil for the ignition of nationalist feelings. Thus, after 1985, EU policy has been geared towards promoting the development power of the local population of a particular area, with the help of resources at their disposal and with the help of the European Union's resources to ensure equitable development, thus allowing the people to take advantage of the benefits of EU membership, which enables them to benefit from all the benefits that globalisation brings to us at the local level as well. That the EU is increasingly aware of the importance of regionalism and that regional policy is one of the most important policies of the European Union, once again, I stress that the most important policies of the European Union are also seen in the share of the funds allocated by the EU to the Structural and Cohesion Funds. In 2003 - respected colleagues and colleagues - if you are interested, this was the case with the European Union's overall budget, which is €99.7 billion for structural and cohesion funds of €33.3 billion. For agriculture, an additional €46.5 billion. By comparison, in 1975, when the European Regional Fund began to operate, only around 4.5% of the European Union budget was allocated to the regions. EU regional policy has thus helped the poorest regions of the EU to reduce the backlog in development. During the period 2000/2006, Spain, around €43 billion, Italy, €28 billion, Germany, mainly the former €28 billion, and Greece and Portugal, will receive the most regional aid. After enlargement, however, Spain and Ireland will lose the most, as we know that this average, which was previously the criterion, will be reduced by the inclusion of the new members. Although the Economic Commission advocates a new 45% of the EU budget for regional aid, so far 33%, this will be very difficult to achieve, as this would require additional budgetary resources, especially important members, Germany, France and Italy, because of the economic - you know that they have large budget deficits - and political - due to enlargement of the EU, Germany will lose some of the resources for the DDR and France to help agriculture, Italy for the non-development of the South. For these reasons, they will not be able to afford it. So the funds are here and they're deeply tied down - I hope I've managed to convince you - on how we're going to divide Slovenia on the second level. If I - I see that I tried to take you somehow for this because there was no big opposition to it - I think about everything I said I could include in these next thoughts. So far, Slovenian municipalities' talks on integration into the provinces have been unsuccessful and we enter Europe with a great administrative fragmentation of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen! This administrative fragmentation that doesn't have it can come to me, I can show him the book. None of the administrative units are covering each other. Whether it's tax or it's economic or it's craftsmanship or it's school or it's culturally forward, and we have one huge "shit nest" out of it. Centralisation processes in Slovenia, by increasing differences in income levels, labour market mobility and quality of life, are weakening national cohesion. We have always been here nationally, one would say, for certain projects or when it came to universities, in Primorska, one. When it came to the distribution of these funds for balanced regional development, for roads, for the construction of schools, and so on, then we jumped in our hair, mainly because I feel these differences are too great today in Slovenia. The need to centralise the revenue of the state budget is further increased by mistrust of local development factors and by maintaining an unsustainable model of the social state. That's what I was talking about. The more the poor, the more sorry you feel, the less these poor congregations will receive, the less they will be given, and the more they will depend on how much the country gives them. By increasing differences between regions, we are moving away from the ideal regional structure that connects through the market. Here we can have very negative consequences for the cooperation and integration of Slovenian companies into companies capable of competing in the common market. Unorganised and weakly impacted on their economic development, the Slovenian regions will not be able to connect equally with the regions of neighbouring countries in the EU. For the first time, I'm talking about regions, you know this division, and for the second time, I'm telling you this about the provinces that would somehow have the rank that Austria has in the countries or the regions in Italy. I have only said one case, but neighbouring countries, the provinces of neighbouring countries do not have, except with the Republic of Slovenia, to talk to, because we do not have such divisions at this level and will probably be one of the priorities of the national assembly and government in the coming term to do these things. The EU is aware of the importance of increasing the competitiveness of less developed areas to prevent risks of exclusion and to resist globalisation. This is why the EU's regional policy after 85 is strongly focused on promoting the development power of local factors. I have told you how much money, about the European Union, and what these funds mean, which could be acquired in addition to state resources or local resources. I think that Slovenia will be successful in or successful in the EU only if it can achieve the political will to establish a smaller number of provinces as soon as possible. Economic and other reasons for this exist and are not difficult to defend. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have spoken with a lot of Members and Members, from Tercón to colleague Kangler, and on this side also with many others, and they say, we have matured knowledge with us, we are going to join forces, we are establishing three provinces and within these landscapes or regions or whatever you want, and let us also be comparable in this model to the models of all the countries that surround us. Croatia is ahead of us, and that is what we must say, and it is not a member of the European Union that I am not even talking about Hungary, Austria and Italy. And it's irresponsible now on a topic like this, because we have Members coming from some regions, terrible problems, customer problems, who said something, what did they do, if that means anything. I would just ask all my colleagues to take the first step in this direction. Let's try to get an open green light for the first axiom, this means that we fix the constitution, as we have agreed, and then combine the powers of all political parties and try to achieve this project for the good of the countries of Slovenia and for the benefit of its citizens. To this end, I also find these changes that we are talking about to be of no pleasure, I tell you. I want to see more, but when I went to study mathematics, I did not first deal with the saying that the sum of the angles in the 180 degree triangle, but I first got to know and set up for this tool, as Irma Pavlinič Krebs says, that two different points just determine one movement. And what we are talking about today is to accept this basic tool, on the basis of which - whoever will run for office, comes in or the Members who will come in - they will necessarily need to ensure that the state does not collapse in one way or another, to solve this problem that I have been talking about. If I've hurt anyone with this talk, I apologize, but otherwise thank you very much to all those who have listened to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u96	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The amendment to the Constitution in the three articles relating to the formation of landscapes does not have sufficient support in this House, that is clear. This has been shown all the time, what we are discussing and we have not been able to find consensus in all three years. In spite of this fact, we cannot, so we need to ask ourselves why. The government and the ruling coalition offer us a change of constitution as the only and saving solution for the formation of the provinces. The opposition wants solutions that will be at the will of the people and not at the will of the ruling elite. There are at least three reasons. The fact is that there is no mutual trust; therefore, I claim that there are at least three reasons. The first reason I see is that the government has not drawn up a law on the financing of municipalities that is urgently needed and which has been promised all the time. Another reason for the government's finding that the reform of local self-government is over is that I cannot agree with it, as it is clear that the establishment of new municipalities has been prevented by violence and political power. Claim that the congregations are too many and that some are unable to exercise their full powers. If this is true and if there are such problems, why not help them with a different financial concept? That's what we'd expect anyway. And the third reason I see is the 1999 law on the promotion of coherent regional development, which has not produced the desired successes. The differences between the municipalities are increasing, and the dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens is high. The government has introduced a new law, followed by a withdrawal from the procedure twice, on the proposal of the ruling coalition. How should the provinces be financed, and what powers will be transferred from the country and from which congregations? These are questions we don't get the right answers to. You were counting on the Slovenian People's Party, but it seems she has stepped back. The vote will show whether they will support solutions with a heavy heart, as has happened many times before, or whether they will actually stand for their views. The formation of the provinces is supposed to solve the issue of administrative and political decentralisation of Slovenia. The landscape design project is expected to be substantively aligned with the project on the establishment of the development regions. The institutional upgrade of the regions is intended to complement the landscape design project. It certainly shows that the great complexity of projects, the establishment of regions and the formation of landscapes, and we know little about each other. And that is what the proposed minority amendment shows, expressing great desires and different interests. Therefore, I believe that such substantive decisions were five minutes before the 12th, when we are actually ending the mandate, after 12 years there was not much to be done to make such solutions inappropriate. Therefore, I will not support the change of the Constitution itself in the area of the formation of landscapes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u98	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Grachner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Today, we are essentially deciding on a more than ten - year - old path to get to the countryside. Throughout the period since the constitution was written to date or until last year, I could say that, when the State Assembly adopted at its 35th extraordinary meeting, the Government's proposal to initiate a procedure to amend these three articles of the Constitution was either a matter of debate on professional debates and various workshops or a need for regionalism to change the constitution or not. And here, in this place, I now reject everything that was previously said by the opposition Members in this direction that we, Members of the ruling parliamentary groups, have decided and that we are now forcing something that is not necessary. That it was necessary to change the Constitution, the profession decided not to do so by policy. It is true, however, that you have been very opposition Members all the time, and in particular from some of these parliamentary groups, stubbornly insisting that regionalism is possible and in Slovenia without these constitutional changes. It was clearly rejected by the profession. And even on this constitutional commission, which was last time, your decision on how you would fully establish regions from the lowest level of power was also rejected by the profession; how the municipalities are the only ones who can establish regions. Here it is not possible to postpone with some re-invented arguments the blame on us, that we are guilty and that we bear the responsibility that the regions in Slovenia are not yet. This - once again in this place - has been the subject of long professional debates, many Slovenian and foreign legal experts have been involved, and this opinion has finally been generalised that this change is appropriate. Now that you have also realized that these arguments are no longer going forward when you have landed somewhere in Slovenia, new and new obstacles and new arguments are being re-invented as well as new and new arguments about how not to reach regions in Slovenia. However, you need to know that a number of Members have previously referred to Europeanism to look at the example of each European Union country, but above all I think that we should look for ourselves, because Slovenia is one of the few countries of the European Union, if not the only one that has not yet been exposed to regions. And even when establishing regions, it is more professional than the only thing that prevails, that municipalities, as the lowest authority of local authorities, cannot create a higher one. And in this proposal, it is a well-written solution, which also holds professionally that the local community will also cooperate, but of course it will cooperate with the opinion it will give to the national assembly on this law, and also with the fact that this law will have to be adopted in Parliament by a two-thirds majority. I think that this is quite enough and that this is really a compromise, how to come also professionally effective and how to really get to Slovenia once again in these regions. On the one hand, you all talk about how regions are needed, how you support them, and when a concrete proposal comes forward, that is 1001 reasons and, of course, that these regions are not set up. And if today you do not give your voice of support for the regions, this is more than a clear sign that you do not want these regions in this reference. And as one of your Members before, I will not quote him: because in the new government or in the new reference, the new government, which will be composed of the opposition, will solve all these problems without you. So this is a clear indication of how the new government imagines itself to be working. It is said that the adoption of laws is without Parliament. And this information is more frightening than it is. I can say that I myself will support today's constitutional changes, because they are based on professional arguments and not on political ones, as some would like to call these professional arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I invite you - Mr. Kelemina, it is your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u101	First of all, Madam Vice-President would like to express her procedural dissatisfaction and also invite you to apologize to Mr Jerovšek and also to our Group of Members, because the National Assembly has appointed you to respect the Rules of Procedure and to conduct a certain part of the meetings of the National Assembly properly and honestly, and you are aware of what you have done before. Previously on Mr. Kremjar, Mr. Puksic... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u102	Mr. Kelemina, please, I gave you my word for the debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u103	And when he had warned you, you warned the Lord Jerovšek, who sat in complete peace, when you, Mr Jerovšek, were at peace. [[...]] It's unfair, it's unfair, it's unfair, and then you laugh at it, and you laugh at something for a pay phone or behind your seat, and there's more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u104	Mr. Kelemina [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u105	behind the back [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u106	Come on, come on, come on, come [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u107	And before I go any further, I'd like to ask you for yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u108	You have the floor to discuss, and I ask you to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u109	Let me do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u110	Not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u111	No, let me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u112	Here's to the debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u113	It's your political culture and what you've been calling for all the time to do, say, in violation of the rules of procedure, to stick to someone's label, to warn them, to give them a warning unjustifiablely, unfairly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u114	Mr Jerovšek yelled at Mr Kremjar and Mr Pukšič refrained and could not continue with his speech, so I assessed that Mr Pukšič was confused by his colleague Jerovska. So please, if you're discussing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u115	It's your political culture. Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u116	This has nothing to do with the political culture of Mr Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u117	You talk one thing, you work another. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u118	Please, come in.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u119	No problem, thank you very much. You've told us everything. But then I'll continue with the second part, if you don't have that much power, consciousness. Okay. As for the change of constitution in work, which would then enable us to establish the provinces, personally, if I say so, as far as it is noted that there is no other solution for the profession to determine - now the profession is all-savory and so on - that the profession finds that it is not possible to establish the province otherwise than by changing the constitution; okay, it is not a problem. I agree with this direction, and I do not object to the establishment of the provinces. Certainly not in the way you promise. For a change in the constitution without any content, although some of you now say that the content is not even worth talking about now, because it comes after, of course, we will change the constitution, but regardless of all your debates, which were still substantive and talked about some content - they only promise everything possible. In fact, you promise us a paradise in heaven, but I would suggest that you leave this to us, believing that God will allow us to do so, and you would rather, because of your political power in the national assembly, allow us a paradise on earth. We could do that. In fact, what you are proposing is actually coming true. You're also talking about wanting to disperse political power by establishing landscapes, etc. - because if we didn't know you, I would believe you, but we know exactly what's behind it. Now, of course, you would like to change the constitution, and then, on the basis of a change in the constitution, if we had a legal basis, we could make such a proposal for a law that would, of course, legitimize a solution that would please only those who would be in power or you, the Liberal Democracy and some other protagonists who would like to command this country. All these conflicts that you're talking about, about how the power of the people is, and how everything has to be tried and passed on to the people's interest at a higher level -- it's said, from a local level to a regional level -- are purely fictitious or deceptive. With them, of course, you try to influence the public with various manoeuvres and show how you are the only one who is righteous and advocates for local self-government to be realized at some other level significantly better than it is today. Our proposal speaks only of this and of nothing else and why we should not adopt it; that the local communities also have the right to give an opinion, a consensus on what solution will be adopted, let us say, in certain laws or in the law on the provinces, which will follow a change of constitution. So why should not the local community at least in some part, as we have suggested, because not everyone, it is a majority, have the right to make some comments, to agree on this arrangement, because then only in this way would they bind the government, authority or anyone who has already proposed or accepted the law, so that the solutions in this law will be such that at least the majority of the people or the majority of the local authorities will do so. Surely anyone who makes such a law, and even then adopts such a law, will make sure that in such a law, such solutions will allow real likeness, or in which local communities will be found, and will be satisfied with such solutions, and then I firmly believe that without everyone - if the solutions are very good - they will give their consent, without much comment, to such solutions. I do not see where there is such a problem here now that the will of the local communities and the wider interest of people should be wiped out and everything simply put from the top by some dictatorship. In fact, you talk a lot about democracy and the dispersion of political power and so on, but in fact you have in mind a super special dictatorship with which we would have everything under our control and would simply command and put our personnel on those levels. Because the fact is that your circle has expanded, important functions have begun to decline, and now you need new positions where you will accommodate your people. That's all this is about, absolutely nothing else. Today, we are dealing with such problems that people everywhere, at least to the impression of the environment where I live, do not even have healthy drinking water! I really don't! And how do you get to such simplest things? You think we're gonna come up with a landscape? No, we'll be establishing the provinces for ten more years! Before we formally adopt the law before we establish this whole level, both institutional and everything else, so that the actual system will come to life, it will take ten years, I am firmly convinced. And with such solutions, so to speak - not to say, you are raping - all citizens, for twelve years, as long as you are in power. [[...]] You're always looking for new solutions, but nothing actually happens. Let's just look at the law on coherent regional development! No, he didn't live, and it's because other things don't come to life: neither is the law on financing regulated as it should have been, nor has the law on coherent regional development been brought to life so that under equal conditions as others in Slovenia in 2004 at least healthy drinking water - we don't have it! And I can tell you, but I am not ashamed that I have worked for at least 25 days on the village water system - my working days, even after fourteen hours, and also eight days off, I think I have already spent helping people build a local water supply, because they don't have one mile away from me, and I have had it for some time and borders of shame that I have it, and they don't. In this way we are building a water supply because it has not even experienced local self-government, as it should have been, because it is not financed as it should have been, nor has it survived regional development. Now you're raping us with the provinces in such a way that nothing happens again for ten years! The time will go on, the money, the resources for it will not be provided, nor will those paid by the citizens to the budget, where it would be fair to go back to where they were created, even though they are in our area where we are underdeveloped, the wages are anyway extremely low, so as not to say miserable, of which we cannot live and from which we cannot pay much in the state budget. However, it would be right, fair and just, that at least part of what the authorities, the State or the tax administration collects from taxpayers' taxes is returned to where it was created. In short, personally, as I say, I do not object to the amendment of the Constitution if you already think that the Constitution needs to be amended, but then, at least with this fuse that we have given, that the municipalities will have at least some powers and a guardian, and also the right to be able to influence that the law on the provinces, if already adopted, will be such as to satisfy at least those fundamental interests, wishes and needs of local communities throughout the country, not only for certain individuals and individual parts of the country that would be most politically appropriate to them. So much for this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u120	Thank you very much. To the words of Mr Spindler, who, I think, wanted to discuss. Mr. Spindler, would you like a word? Mr. Spindler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I apologize for my absence. The worst thing in all cases is that you allow citizens or citizens and citizens not to be satisfied with any connection they somehow want. And I think you can definitely see these things here today. I believe that in this proposal we should discuss a little more carefully and more broadly, as well as a wider consensus, it is possible to obtain the kind of activity that we have now enjoyed. All of this is contradictory because the province is established by law, which is somehow the most undemocratic if it is now possible in the Constitution to connect congregations either to regions or to other connections. We have already adopted many regulations here in this House, which somehow potentiate the functioning of local centralisms, which I personally fear most. Why do we not want to talk about taking into account the polycentric development of the entire region of Slovenia? We simply have certain cities, some congregations we ignore, and we do not recognize their right to do so. I don't know what Slovenia would look like over the decades, especially at the end of where we have the worst development in Slovenia, if we are to centralise everything somewhere, especially within the region that we now want to map. These are things that we should be a little more aware of, and also a little more professionally defined. It's easy to propose in marriage and accept it, and then all things are resolved. I fully support, for example, the debate of my fellow Member, Mr Rudi Mojet, who has certainly done so much for you, so that you do not owe yourself too much. And basically all of these arguments I also support, and I want Slovenia to look like this somehow. I think the easiest thing to do is to do three landscapes and then down lower things, say the districts as they do in neighbouring Austria, and I think these things are pretty good and spontaneous and they are also running democratically. In this direction, I am thinking, but not some kind of ad hoc thing, because I think that the establishment of individual landscapes makes it possible, and this is the democratic path that we should best support. In order not to be a proposal, I will conclude with this, so of course I will see how things go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u122	Thank you very much. May I have Dr. Bernick's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u123	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! I'll be very brief. We all know that we need the provinces, but as we are now doing, they will not be for long. I have quite a few concerns. One is when one speaker spoke about the adoption of this constitutional law first, and then we will discuss all the other details. This is a procedure that is head-on, not democratic and not economic. If anyone in the business world thinks that way, he won't have that city for long, because no one signs the note in advance, then they talk about similarities. Secondly, I am concerned that all this direction in the internal ministry is becoming increasingly evident - not the internal ministry, but the Ministry of Police, the police ministry. And I'm sorry to put it that way, but if this is a principle in some country, then fear such a ministry, such a minister and such an arrangement. So, I will not under any circumstances support something where the interior ministry will regulate things that may be good for some, but not for people in general, but we can see that all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u124	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Tisovic. You want a word? No, no, no. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. It has been said a lot, but I am sorry that in such an important matter as the change of constitution, we are both on different shores, because, as Prešeren said, "because now you, as we do heartily defend it, call for time". And the Constitution is the one that guarantees the fundamental rights and duties of every citizen of this country. And when we talk about the urgent need for Slovenia to decentralise itself, of course, the first step is that it is enshrined in the Constitution and is also possible. That's why I'll back it up. Of course, then it is a matter of how and how we will get to the provinces and to the development regions, and then it is a step that we will have to take, and we will have to do it. But above all, we have to be for this. And if we think as we say, or speak as we think, then I'm sure we can. However, I am sorry again that we are at a pre-election time when some still exploit this and then shift and rolling all charges against the ruling coalition - today I do not think it would be necessary - and that we should step forward to change the constitution in this direction and give the possibility of decentralisation to Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Komljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, my colleague. What most people are doing today, I think it's a way to never have a landscape. It may also be appropriate for some, given that Slovenia is a small country, but above all I think it also corresponds to the developed part of Slovenia - such a way. And if I am jokingly saying, however, the awareness of the underdeveloped is actually undeveloped, because the provinces and this other level of local self-government that we need should be in the principle of subsidiarity, no matter what - and we are not talking about today - at what level these provinces would be: whether they will be at NUTS 2 or 3, we are not even talking about this today, even though many speakers are talking about it. So I understood this: if we had a law on the provinces, if we had a law on the financing of the provinces, and if we were to divide Slovenia into provinces, then we would ask the congregations if they agreed to it, and then we would go into a change of constitution. This path is not possible and will probably never be, and if we work hard in this direction, we will never have a province. Today, we have a country at NUC 0, 1 and 2. It is stipulated that whether the country will be divided into structural regions, when more than one, we will also get three structural regions - I think that, if it does happen, it will not happen until 2007. I also understood - in one of the proposals of the Regional Development Act, we had written that we have Slovenia divided into three structural regions, but it is clear that this had to be deleted; it would probably be inappropriate for us to adopt such a law, but the European Union would not agree. That's ahead of us, and we don't know that today. The change in the Constitution would mean, above all, that we would go and talk about everything I had previously counted about all these laws. That doesn't prejudge anything. Of course, the consent of the municipalities in this sense, as proposed by the opposition, I do not think there is a way. This is the way to maybe reach 24 or 25 regions or never to any one. I think it's been said many times, in the constitution, people make decisions. Of course, because we are here because of the people; they have decided that we are their representatives, and we can probably make a lot of decisions on their behalf. And this is what they expect us to do on their behalf to decide many things, not to impose this responsibility on them when it is most difficult. Even when we're talking here, we don't really understand what we're talking about. Look, in all these years we have talked about structural regions in addition to the provinces and about development regions and about population regions about statistical regions, and when someone says "region", everyone else understands what region we're talking about. And even as the last word on the development regions ran, someone thinks that these are already the provinces, although it was also clearly written there, that it was meant to be in NUTC 3 or in some peripheral regions, if you would like to include some former thinking about the population regions here. I am convinced that we need the country, the landscapes, the development regions and, of course, the municipalities we already have, and we link this to each other so that the system works so that we can transfer from the state level the state obligations or tasks that are now in the ministries closer to the municipalities. But I am sure - and this has already been said that we will be the provinces that we are considering, the legal persons who will not be either subordinated or superior to the congregations. And neither will the congregation be subordinated to or superior to the provinces. Of course, it's about independent legal persons. We'll each have our assignments. I am also convinced, from the principle of subsidiarity, that very few tasks will be transferred from the congregations to the province. Less than some people talk about it. I'm sure of it. Those who are truly united for all congregations, yes, and others probably do not have a place here, even because of the principle of subsidiarity. So if we fail to change the constitution so that we can establish the provinces, that it will be possible to establish the provinces here in the National Assembly - of course I do not rule out that the congregation would not have the right to do so or say or not to have a word on it - but leave it above all to the decision-making of the congregations would be wrong. So, I'm sure the path that's set for this moment is right. Of course, I fear that there will not be enough common will and power to solve this problem in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u128	Thank you very much. To the word I call on the Lord the Wicked. Here you are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I have to say that I was impressed by Rudi Mojet's interview, even more so because some others have only spoken and bent and actually wanted to make a "black hole" from which Slovenia will not dig until radical changes occur. At first I didn't think I was gonna talk, and then I realized that this bitter cup didn't go past me. We listened to little Napoleon - "Aut Caesar car nibil" - and even a little bigger Napoleon who talked about hidden purposes and conspiracys, which, of course, reflect the paranoia and authors themselves. But the worst part is to intercede with an innocent people, who have nothing to do with it, and cankar has already had a holy wrath upon the chiefs of the people. Cankar would give them a fair earful. And the last thing that is literally embarrassing is that - I will not quote the author - but he spoke very loudly here that nowhere in Europe is so arranged for minorities as it is in Slovenia. This is a disaster. So those who speak, our minorities have everything and more, they only speak to themselves, unaware that they actually hate minorities and would rather drown them in a spoon of water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The word has Alexander Merlo. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to point out that our colleague Rudy Mogo has given a surprisingly good speech to me today, and I think I fully agree with him, and I think that the introduction of the landscape means, we know, some final design of our country's structure. In my opinion, we are late in this matter, and we are also giving up the positive effects that the creation of a second level of local self-government will have. I personally support the compromise by which the municipal councils of the municipalities in the area of the envisaged province will take part in the establishment of the provinces. Otherwise, if the provinces were established by decisions of municipalities - and in a qualified way - we would not reach the provinces in Slovenia. I also argue this on the basis of experience from the wider environment from which I come. Of course, it should be stressed that certain elements of the landscapes in Slovenia exist and are understood and accepted by citizens and citizens as such. The National Assembly will therefore have to take these elements into account when adopting the law establishing the provinces, or to summarise the existing geographical, economic and historical links as much as possible. Just for the record. I would say that I hope that, in the next reference, Members will be able to achieve so much energy and self-initiativeism and decide to set up the provinces. I am increasingly convinced, as my colleague Moja said a little earlier, that the actual solution, which would be exemplary for Slovenia, would actually be three regions. I think and I think that in the coming years you will remember these words: either three or the matter will be dissolved and we will eventually have 30 of them and we will certainly not achieve that desired goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u132	Thank you. Dushan Wolf gets the word. No, no, no. Mario Gasparini gets his word. No, no, no. Richard Beumann. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have not prepared any longer speech, but I wanted to come by for a simple reason, because I feel that it is necessary to say what has already been said many times today and in recent times. The provinces certainly: yes. We certainly need a second level of local self-government in Slovenia. Personally, I think we need it even more because of the excessive fragmentation of Slovenia into 193 municipalities. In fact, we have achieved the centralisation of this country, an excessive centralisation that needs to be decentralised by the introduction of the provinces in some way. Of course, the real question is - how many landscapes? I myself agree with all those predecessors who have warned that Slovenia is too small for 14 provinces. That it is too small to make enough landscapes to stop the province from performing its basic tasks or achieving what we want to achieve with the provinces. Mrs Zupanova spoke earlier about the fact that we must get the provinces at the will of the people and not at the will of the ruling elite. It's easy to agree with, but I would add, not by the will of any ruling elite. I have a feeling that there is something going on here: that everything is being tried to avoid the landscapes in this mandate, that then some other elite might gather enough voices and enough political will to establish the province. This does not seem to be the right approach, and I therefore predict that I myself will support the relevant proposals to amend the Constitution. I also believe that at least what needs to be done in changing the constitution, which needs to be amended, because if we don't change it, I wonder why after ten years and we still don't have the provinces. It seems to me that article 143 of the Constitution should be deleted at the very least. At least that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u134	Thank you very much. He wants the word "proposer." Minister? The word has a government, that's what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President! In fact, very briefly, because there was much to be said. I think today was an hour of truth about who really is for the decentralisation of Slovenia, for the provinces, for the polycentric development, for the even development and who is always putting obstacles on this path. Today we have heard quite incredible arguments about why this constitutional provision cannot be adopted. I am disappointed with the 'figures in my pocket', especially those who have led us in depth, sometimes hard, but apparently credible negotiations on what is needed in the constitution as a guardian, in order to bring things to an end on both sides. Thus, first of all, the Slovenian People's Party called for the inclusion of a two-thirds majority for the province's creation law, and thus we agreed after the negotiations at the end. But that wasn't enough. Then came a request for a two-thirds agreement on the law on the financing of the provinces. This has brought a lot of excitement into our negotiations, especially in our expertise. The profession opposed this, but we wanted to reach consensus on this important issue, the high two-thirds consensus. That is why we took the view of the profession - in fact very difficult, but nevertheless - to accept this negotiating point, to convince the other Members of the coalition, which was not easy to find out again today something third. That neither the first nor the second nor the third conditions are sufficient, but that it is a condition for us to accept the consent of the municipalities or the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has not been mentioned in these negotiations. How people will judge such credibility is a matter of the Slovenian People's Party. Of course, we are all left with the fact that after three years of negotiations, it is clear that after three years of "holding a fig in our pocket" we have not reached the consensus that is needed, for which colleagues and colleagues of your previous mandate have already found that the Constitution needs to be amended. Over three years now, we have not been able to reach consensus on this issue for more than three years, despite the enormous work that has been put into this, despite the enormous knowledge of the profession. In fact, it is very logical to conclude that in Slovenia, of course, there is no majority belief among political parties that the provinces need to be established that power in Slovenia needs to be decentralised. Simply, part of the political parties in Slovenia thinks otherwise. Of course, he does not say it by name and surname, he does not say it directly, but he always says with new inventions and obstacles, what must be done in order to have the landscapes in the country. In this way we will never have them, as in the past ten, twelve years, we have not had them, despite our will, despite the firm political conviction of a large majority - the population of parts of Slovenia - on the basis of the current constitutional regime. Some of you are still saying that the Constitution, as we now say, should be used as the basis for establishing the provinces on the basis of inter-ethnic agreement. You didn't know in the history of ten, twelve years that this simply didn't work. The repetition of these truths is of course not in favour of ever having decentralised power in Slovenia, but it is in favour of blurring the true truth and seeking excuses for the positions that are contrary to the exercise of the provinces in this country. I think we should thank all those who firmly believe in the need to decentralise the authority in Slovenia in order to ensure conditions for polycentric development, a large part of the profession, a large part of the policy has firmly and seriously thought that the second part of the policy will succeed in convincing this. Unfortunately, they have failed, and apparently the centralism of Slovenia is so much more so that all the discussions related to the provinces are more about finding excuses and ways out of this situation. I think that the time spent in this debate, but it was usefully invested, today was the hour of truth, but it is true that not everyone has said bob beans, but there will probably be some opportunity to do so. I am very sorry for those who have invested a great deal of their energy, their knowledge, their credibility, their fair look at this project and I thank them here. However, I expect and I am sure that sooner or later there will be such a political situation in this country that a consensus will be reached on what European civilisations have long known about the fact that power is not only centrally exercised from one place but in a manner consistent with European civilisation principles of subsidiarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We therefore held a debate on the report of the Constitutional Commission and the positions. I'm asking if anyone might want to talk about two amendments and a third position. The two amendments are submitted to the third position of the Constitutional Commission, in the review of the positions of 23.6. you have under the 1st amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amended amendment of the Italian and Hungarian Group of Nationalities. I'm asking if anyone wants a word about these two amendments. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u137	Respectable present. As for the amendment dated 22.6.2004, the Slovenian Democratic Party, I must say on behalf of the Group of Members that we do not support it. We estimate that the requirement of the consent of the municipal councils is exaggerated and that this will in the future cause the provinces in their entire phase, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has envisioned, of course, not to come to life. According to our assessment, it's a category as proposed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u138	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u139	According to our assessment, the category proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is too demanding and will thus prevent the further decentralisation or centralisation of our country. On the other hand, I would like to touch once again the amendment sent to the procedure by representatives of the smaller nationalities within the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly. According to our assessment, it is also unacceptable for us to legislate or write into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia special categories of special rights and special position for representatives of the Italian minority and the Hungarian minority. According to our assessment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act within the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must not be placed in a secondary or subordinate position compared to the Hungarian and Italian national communities. According to our assessment, it is the task of all of us, within the framework of the National Assembly, to place a citizen and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in a privileged position, but not to place them in a subordinate or role that would then belong to the amendment, so this is the role of the one who takes over the majority of the minority. Of course, I would also like to touch on my implementation of the speech, the closing speech - I sincerely hope that the final speech - the Minister himself, who has pointed out that new needs or new arguments have been reexposed again and again, why he opposes the proposal put forward in the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I quote: "Invented Needs" as stated by Minister Bohinc, of course we cannot do them in the National Party. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u140	Mr. Bake, I ask you nicely for peace in the hall. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u141	Thank you, Madam Vice President. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has very, very, very badly embarked on the projects of decentralisation or the creation of regions in our country. Talking about establishing regions or, I apologize, landscapes, without knowing what the content of these landscapes is, of course, irrelevant. It is irrelevant to talk about the existence of landscapes, their vital importance for citizens and citizens, without knowing what are the essential tasks, what these landscapes will do. It's as meaningless as setting up provinces without knowing who's going to finance them or what's going to fund them. Therefore, the Minister's demagogic performance, according to our assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, points solely to the unwillingness of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to engage in appropriate dialogue. To speak of the Minister's expectation that one day a different structure will come into the National Assembly, which will raise its votes for such a Bianca proposal, which does not specify obligations or rights or not funding, is of course a completely flawed logic. To speak and use the argument that today's constitutional changes, if supported, would lead to our country's decentralisation, would be a mistake. Decentralisation in what respect, but if we don't know the contents of the landscapes. In the opening position of the Slovenian National Party Group, I have already said and expressed my wish to have provinces in our country, but such provinces, which will truly be able to come to life, are such provinces that will be able to carry out tasks, all tasks to know what tasks are being discussed. That is why such a speech by the Minister causes, at least in my opinion, unnecessary political conflicts and even more; it shows, in my opinion, total inability to carry out such a project, i.e. the provinces, within our country. To conclude, in the framework of the parliamentary group, we believe that it would be possible, on the basis of an existing constitutional provision that speaks or provides for the integration of local communities, to pass a statutory law setting out obligations, rights, tasks and financing in its content, and thus to approach urgently needed areas. By the way offered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at a given time, we will do harm to ourselves, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as we will move the landscape's livelihood away for a few more years, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party. By changing the Constitution, let us change it so that its effects are felt in the content and in its entirety. There is no way to change the Constitution, for which some kind of stiffness is guaranteed within the necessary two-thirds majority, solely due to the beauty norm. And today, Minister Bohinc is only doing this-- that just before the elections we can say and lie, the emphasis is on "misleading", we have the basis for the provinces. That's not true! Such constitutional changes do not provide the basis for the landscape's life in terms of meeting the needs of its inhabitants. In the National Party, we will not support the amendment coming from the Slovenian Democratic Party, nor the amendment coming from the national communities for the implementation or livelihood of the Hungarian and Italian provinces within our country, nor the proposal coming from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say the Bianca of the proposal referring to artificial creation called the province, without at the same time watching what they will do at all, how the provinces will operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Because no one wants another word. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The amendment, as tabled this morning, is clear, the amendment's correction is even more clear, the same is the explanation. One more time and one more time. When the country is decentralised, of course, there is a transfer of powers from country to country. It is essential that the Constitution directs this transition of jurisdiction in the case of provinces which will cover ethnically mixed areas. It's a self-inflicted thing. I would like to take this opportunity to tell some colleagues who have already objected in their debate about this amendment a few things. First of all, although no one wants to deal with it, the 2002 census in this country has resulted in the greatest failure of the indigenous national communities, which are constitutionally protected. Italian National Community by 23.7%, Hungarian National Community by 22%. This is how I imagine members of one and the other national communities running to Mr Puksic saying, "We have, Mr Puksic, the highest possible level of protection in Europe!" Mr Pečet's arguments are, as I would say, somehow confused with reality. But well, that's a sort of problem we can't solve. I am pleased that Mr Jerovšek was so impressed with some of my people, as I would say, with the provocations of a visit. My purpose was achieved, and he tasted what could happen if someone exaggerated with some nationalist primitiveism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I would just like to clarify with regard to our proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the amendment, the position of the draft constitutional law that what Mr Minister has previously explained is that we are always inventing some new solutions and proposing impossible ideas to try to block the constitutional change or the establishment of landscapes, that this is not true, that it is absolutely nothing that is true, but that we, through this proposal, are merely modestly proposing what all representatives of local communities want, so that at least we have the right to participate in the adoption of such important legislation as the legislation on regionalism or landscapes. Now tell me, honourable Members, Members, which representatives of local communities, mayors, and the councils of the municipalities, who are politically active, are opposed to being actively involved in the adoption of legislation in this area? There is probably no mayor in this country, except Mr Butolen, who would object to this proposal for local communities to have the right to give opinions, to agree on the adoption of legislation in the area of the provinces. And we're defending it. We only advocate what is of interest to people, what is the interest of local communities, municipal councils, all political parties involved, all political parties, and this is the majority opinion of the whole of Slovenia, and we advocate it. And now we are opposed to adopting legislation in the area of landscapes, etc., and that is how we are burned. It's unacceptable, it's incorrect. Accept this proposal. You will be grateful to the whole of Slovenia, all the parishioners except Mr Butolen, and to all the municipal councils in which all the political options in this country are covered. This is our proposal, the correct proposal, let us accept it and I firmly believe that there will be a change in the constitution and the establishment of the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, Mr Barovic, Mr Butolen and beyond.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I must answer Mr Battelli's remarks, which says that I was impressed by the provocations of a visit to Rome. I must say that regardless of the provocations - which I doubt was the case - because Mr Battelli was very vehemently defending his thesis before four Members and Ambassadors; I do not think it was a provocation, but it was a serious performance. Regardless of whether it was provocations or serious positions, I was not impressed, but I am seriously concerned about the thesis that only the Vatican and the Republic of Italy can talk about returning the paintings to the Minority Monastery in Piran. This is for me the denial of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia over the coast, over this work of Primorska and this is a very serious and worrying position for me. There were some provocations last night, and I agree with that, even unacceptable, but this thing was said in a very different context. And I doubt that this is the way in which such a delegation is provoked - it is not appropriate. This may have serious implications for interstate relations, although if you put here such a thesis as a representative of the Italian minority, I think you can legitimately put it, but, of course, this national assembly must and is obliged to think of such a thesis which denies the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia throughout its territory.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u148	Please, the debate is on the amendments. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u149	Thank you. I'll try to keep your words as high as possible. I speak and continue, of course, the Slovenian National Party's claim that the content of the amendment, which was tabled by fellow Members of the two communities, is totally unnecessary. See, it says, "In the areas of the municipalities where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live autonomously, the province is formed, which exercise special rights and the position of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and take into account the cultural and regional and other characteristics of the region." I understand that it is obvious that we do not respect the 64th Main Constitution, which all the rights listed, no matter where, and no matter what members are guaranteed - for the first time. And secondly, respected colleagues and colleagues, to change the constitution in such a way that today we get just before an important decision by some amendment that says what is already written in the constitution - please! Let's be, please, if anyone is here from Italy, maybe somewhere else, or Hungarian communities, and claims they've been violated by their constitutional rights! And there's something else I'd like to say. Among those who have been among Slovenians around the world or who have visited other countries, you do not know what demands our former ones have made, I will say 'cohabitants' in the past, both in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro and elsewhere. They want to be equal to the minorities we have in the constitution. And we are always and will defend that minorities in the country of the Republic of Slovenia must have a special position - these are Italian and Hungarian - and they have it in the constitution. And the other-- if we do this now, then I don't know what's gonna happen. If we're gonna do this - please, come on! The Slovenian national party absolutely cannot see, 2,000 is people - or, I don't know, I said - who already have constitutionally guaranteed all rights. [[...]] And now these 2,000 people will have almost more rights than 40,000 Slovenians. Well, please, with all due respect to everyone!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. I don't know if my colleague Kelemin listened to me - if he didn't listen to me, read the tape, but if he listened to me, he didn't understand me, and I can explain it to him. I certainly didn't say what he was saying. But I don't want to burden everyone else with this, and I can explain it to him in a special way, but I think it's gonna take a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Brenčič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Even though I will not support this amendment, I would like to say a few words that my colleague and my minority colleague will not assess that I oppose them and that I do not understand them. The Autochton minorities are going after the constitution of the rights that every country's policy should understand and deal with in any area. And there should be no problems and no derogations from their rights in realisation. However, I do not support the amendment of Article 143 of the Constitution because I believe that Slovenia, which does not reach any city of Muenchen with its critical mass, does not need any administrative landscapes. The problem is that with a bunch of transfers, the birth of landscapes from another title - from centralisation or non-conformal development of this country. This is not the cause in the provinces, but it is the cause of politics, in the first place the government, how it manages it, the individual source and so on. There is no need for all institutions to concentrate as a centre in Ljubljana, and some of the status and position of Ljubljana are conditioned and will still be centralised. However, nowhere is it said that there must always be a supervisory institute in Ljubljana for this, a research institute for this, an agency for the fact that this can only be a medical university in Ljubljana - now for a long time it can be transferred to Maribor; but this is a matter of politics, of state. It's not a matter of regions! I firmly believe that the technology that electronic media are allowing today does not require any new centres. They are wanted by people who already see themselves there as some chiefs and somehow builders of the new centre and somehow oppose the seemingly centralised Ljubljanas. But this creates only an additional burden on the state, the state budget, and therefore there is no law to determine which powers of the State we will transfer to the region and what part of the financing of the state administration will be reduced from the budget and transferred to the region. Therefore, for such regionalisation, we are only increasing the burden of the state budget, the burden of net contributors on the state budget, but this is only the real sector, and we are bountiating the new public administration. If the existing legislation had been implemented so far, then the municipality would have, to a slightly greater extent, a real competence, at least called space use, in the use of space, in the management of space. The municipality here is only well-written in law, for each of its strategies practically has to pray to the smallest civil servant to justify his argument that he needs this change for the development of the municipality. And it won't be any different in the provinces. Therefore, I say that Slovenia is not passing through and does not need to divide administratively into so many provinces, because from the political approaches that we have already used in the municipalities, they will not, in other words, split up into a domain that I also tend to divide Slovenia to the maximum of three administrative units, but will double the simple state office. Therefore, it is unacceptable for a person who has as much discretion as he has to public finances to accept all this debate and to try to make the public administration even more abundant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Before I put forward my word, I beg you very nicely, from 10 a.m. to almost half an hour, there was a general debate on all these things. I have now opened the debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, only two more amendments. Please don't repeat and reheat all kinds of views. Amendments, please, that's all. Because, Mrs Possoncheva has nothing procedural, it is only an explanation - you are not in accordance with the rules of procedure - in the first part yes, and then you discussed in general why you will not support constitutional change. [[...]] That's not an amendment. Ma'am, there's nothing to help. [[...]] I have only warned and warned the others, because I fear that we will reopen the debate on the things that we have had the right to discuss from ten to the end, as we have all been notified. I would like to take the floor to invite Mrs. Possonchev to discuss both amendments. Here you go. Please, if you'll excuse me, please, Mrs. Marika Pozsonec. Please! Here you go, Mrs. Poxon. [[...]] [[The voices from the hall.]] [[...]] Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, which Mr Brenčič makes clear to me, is not a procedural proposal. Please! Mrs. Possoncheva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. This amendment of ours didn't come about suddenly. In fact, it is a logical consequence of the legal provisions forming national rights, which are applicable in a specific area because the laws take account of the rights of members of nationalities. If the state is serious about implementing adopted and written laws, it must also follow in regionalism, because these rights are being realized in regions in a given territory. Therefore, this amendment did not work from any of the first and second-class citizens, the aim is only to enable the law to be implemented. On the basis of changes to the Constitution towards the decentralisation of the State, it will be imperative to define precisely the powers and functions for the newly created provinces as the envisaged applicable regime of the Republic of Slovenia is to protect the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities at territorial level. Because of this fact, it will be necessary to have a certain status, a different status, and a different status than that of the other provinces. Thus, special original and delegated powers relating to the position and right of the national community and all of this is enshrined in the Constitution. Thus, in my opinion, this indignation is unjustifiable and is not necessary, as it is implementing the law by the Constitution of a certain right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I have to protest for two reasons. Intruder [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u158	Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek. The protest is not a procedural proposal, and I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u159	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I'll make a suggestion at the end. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u160	Now, at the beginning, tell me what your proposal is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u161	Look, the right to explain, I'll give it to you. You've shown it twice today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u162	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u163	What you were talking about was political arrogance. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I take your word for it. It's not a procedural proposal. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Mr. Kremjar has the floor, on the amendments. [[...]] Please, if you'll excuse me, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u165	Look, I propose procedurally. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u166	This is not a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u167	that you apologize to Mr Brenčič for violating the Rules of Procedure, because you have not given your word for the procedural word because you cannot know what he will propose. [[...]] You have no right to make such a decision, and you have also been slanderous in relation to me before in explanation, I hear. I didn't pick up when Mr. Kremjar did. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u168	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u169	You have slandered me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u170	Mr Brenčič made it clear from the bench that he disagreed with my warning. This has nothing to do with the procedural proposal as defined in the Rules of Procedure. We have a debate on two amendments, that's all we can talk about. Earlier, there were six, seven hours of debate on the proposal for constitutional amendments. I'm asking you to be correct. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I'm talking about the amendment. I must say that I understand this amendment slightly differently, as it was written, and if I think correctly, it would be good if one of the candidates could confirm it. In fact, I do not understand as it has been heard, but I understand that the province - should probably also write the provinces that will be established in an area where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, should also take into account, within their course, the fact that the two communities live there. I want to, I want to, and that's how I understand this proposal. If this is the case, then of course I think it is perfectly correct, normal and otherwise it is a question of whether it should be written specifically, but, however, it will not do any harm if it were written down. And as it is said, I do not understand this in this way, as has been said several times before, that this means the establishment of special provinces, especially for - now I will simplify - the Italian or Hungarian national communities. I don't know if anyone can say yes or disagree with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I must admit that when I read this amendment, I have quite a few problems because we can read it in different ways. Assuming we create a large number of landscapes, this means that two provinces are being formed, which will comprise national minorities - one Italian and one Hungarian. In the event that we create a small number of provinces or three provinces, which is also an idea, it is difficult to incorporate into the constitutional article; for the Constitution guarantees the rights of minorities in other places. It would be difficult to include a text that says that the cultural, landscape and other features of the region should be taken into account if we assume that we will have, say, an eastern region that will include Koroška, Štajersko and even Prekmurje. There these landscape characteristics are difficult to include as an assumption in the formation of the landscape. I would therefore suggest that either the position is reshape and once again emphasises the protection of minority rights, or that such an amendment withdraws.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. The text of this amendment is precisely defined and we do not notice in a single word that there would be any "can" in the amendment, but it says, "the landscapes are shaped". So you have to if we accept that. That's a fact. If a government representative interprets this text in any other way, I would ask him to say it publicly and aloud. Because it says exactly: "In the areas of the municipalities where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live autonomously, the provinces are formed which exercise special rights." If we accept this, they must form a province no matter what kind of law we adopt later. If we write that down, you have to. That means there are already three provinces because you have to if we accept it. I ask the government representative to also say whether the government supports such an amendment or not. I would like the Government's position on this content of the amendment to be clarified.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to say this. Given that I live in the area - that is, that I am from the municipality where the Italian minority lives - and that I am somewhat aware of how the neighbours regulate these relations to the minority, and that I am also listening in the Italian Parliament to the reaction they have to any discussion on the protection of minorities, I must say that I am ashamed of the argument I have heard here. Although I have my own doubts about this amendment, I also believe that this dictatorship is that in an area where the Italian minority and the Hungarian national community live autonomously, the province is formed. This is the power to interpret in truly multiple ways. I think this is also the power to interpret: each municipality has areas that are bilingual, intam, of course, a living minority and that should then form a province in this area. Or that the congregations where both minorities live form this very area as a province. Since I'm a supporter of big landscapes, this concept just doesn't come into my mind. However, I understand the intentions of the applicants and support them, and I have supported them in the past, so that regions where minorities live should also regulate relations and these special rights and the situation of minorities. So how to deal with it - I now have no proposals here, but I think that the Constitutional Commission will have a problem in achieving such a position and then in shaping it as a constitutional amendment. I think we should rephrase the text here a little differently. We should say that the provinces in which municipalities where the indigenous minority lives have to regulate the rights and duties and the position of the Italian and Hungarian communities, otherwise we have to determine in advance what this province looks like.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I am pleased that there are serious reflections on the nature of this proposal and possible interpretations of this text, because, in one similar debate in the past, the LDS Club has unreservedly supported and adopted a similar text. I hope that, from then on, there has been enough time to think about how to actually imagine each word, every dictatorship and every possible meaning. In fact, no doubt this, as it is written, means that we would extend the area of bilinguality and landscape to, say, at least the entire Koper municipality, which we know is not entirely bilingual and I think this is one of the most important implications contained in this document. Otherwise, I think that this would prevent once the establishment of the Primorska province, which is a historic Slovenian province and in this way it cannot be established, because if we confirm this amendment, it is prevented for all eternity. And be assured that there are great political interests in Europe and also here in our neighbourhood, that they will be able to stand behind the letter and in the spirit of such an adopted amendment - that we have historically failed. And look, I don't understand either; there was a partial amendment change, but at the same time it writes; the explanation remains in force. And there it is also cited as the basis of the winter agreements. I think that the Winter Agreements relate mainly to the western Slovenian border, and practically to the indigenous minority they have no business, but this amendment refers to such agreements and I do not know the consequences of any obligations. So once again, let us be proud of the extraordinary protection of indigenous minorities. I'm proud of myself. However, I think that we must also understand that in these matters, every comma, every word and every single thing is important, and that at a time when we are faced with serious attempts to avoid the implementation of the protection law, the global protection of the Slovenian minority in Italy, serious attempts to reduce the scope of this law in the Italian Parliament, in order that we now find it irresponsible, without question, to extend the area of some province that would extend practically throughout Primorska, which is not bilingual, which I think would be extremely irresponsible, irresponsible to conduct this national assembly, and I think that a clear word is needed at the right time and now that something is not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I will give my word to Mr Battelli, Mr. Anderlich, Mr. Rokavac. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek doesn't know the agreements, he doesn't know their contents, he explains something that comes out of his ignorance, but good; he won't teach it now either. What I was going to do was propose a correction to this amendment so that there will be no misunderstandings. And the correction would go this way in order to make it clear that the provinces formed in the areas of the municipalities, where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live autonomously, also apply special ones - and so on. There'll be no misunderstandings. Even such a dictatorship does not in fact rule out the possibility of my wish being realized; and my wish would be, for example, for the Coast, that just as it once was, that the coast would be a province, but that, of course, neither the previous dictatorship nor this explicitly say that. It seems to me that it is both economical and demographic, as well as because of the advantages and specificities of the Coast - it could be a province in itself, not only because of the presence of the Italian national community, but also because of its presence. Finally, these are places that carry a specific Venetian, Mediterranean tradition, which is nowhere else in Slovenia - not least. And the testimony of some culture, which is just, so objectively speaking, has enriched European civilization. That's the way it is. Now, are we going to manage this in a way that's going to sink into, I don't know, ports and various big stores and I don't know what -- well, it's going to be our thing to do with it. Or we will know this value for what is really both architectural and cultural and so on. It will also depend on us and on the policy to be guided here, whether this culture is still alive there. So whether or not they will be people who will somehow reflect it. So far, it shows that we've decided on the opposite, because it's disappearing, it's blowing out of our sight, and no one cares. However, I propose such a correction and I think it will clear up all these doubts that have arisen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Battelli. If I understand correctly, you will file a written amendment. Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u183	The question is, what are we actually doing today? On the one hand, it is more than clear that these constitutional changes do not have a serious opportunity to obtain a majority that would allow what we all are stressing, I would say for a decade that we want to regionalise Slovenia, that we want to bring state administration closer to some medium level, if I may say so. But when we talk about this particular amendment, he should be sad. And that's sad because when someone says that it's still highly protected belonging to a minority, both Hungarian and Italian in Slovenia, and that we don't have everything in order, but when we have to do something practical, it's something else immediately. I believe and I well understand the Slovenian Constitution in a way that protects both Hungarian and Italian national communities. I am sorry that we have not been able to place the Roma community at some legal level in all these times, in some contexts which would also allow this community to have a decent survival and integration into a particular environment. We've been seeing problems lately. This is the responsibility of the state, the responsibility of the national assembly and the government, whatever we call it. It is wrong if we do not understand these efforts in good faith today. These efforts go in my absolute direction - and I understand them so - as some discussers have already said that, as in the parts of the municipalities where these national communities live and have the legal and constitutional right to regulate this in the context of the provinces that are to be formed. By no means are any provinces with special status, with special statutes, as compared to Italy to Mr Jerovšek, you will be able to arrange this easily in Lower Bistrica - Lower Bistrica at Slovenian Bistrica, or Černelovci, or at any end, you can arrange it. Of course, I'll give my opinion, and you've already told him yours six times. I understand this amendment in terms of recognition, respect, understanding, however you wish Slovenia to have an area in Primorska, where the Italian national community lives, is an area in Prekmurje, where the Hungarian national community lives, and that, in any case, whenever we regulate certain rights, some status, we must take this into account. I am sorry that the amendment has been tabled, that a correction has been made, and that another correction is now proposed, which introduces uncertainty, an inconclusive definition and perhaps someone also points to the establishment of a special status. I submit that I understand that this could mean, or that it must mean, in the future constitutional and legal system, that those rights which are exercised in the work of the municipalities where these two national communities live should also be adequately reflected at the regional or provincial level. And nothing else! It is not a question of how we explain it; it is a question of how those concerned experience it, how they understand that they will live in a future system. We can safely say there's something black - if it's red, it's red. That is why all the instigation that would lead to our wanting to do something other than follow the constitutional structure that is set up - I think that this is the 64th article that enforces these special rights - that even when we talk about these rights, they are properly applied at the province level. Nothing else. Everything else, I don't think, is preposterous.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u184	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. Nor do I claim that this amendment came well on the bench. However, look, as it is written, says the following: "In the areas of the municipalities where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national communities live, the provinces are formed" and so on. Thus, this text can also create an understanding that, explicitly in that area, geographically, where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian communities live, the province is established, and this is explicitly enshrined in the constitution, the constitutional law. It's fear. And we know that we have already received a number of proposals from government institutions to develop regional landscapes in Slovenia. We'll come up with a new problem. I believe that at least what should be done in this amendment, of course, today is not the time, but on all initiatives, the expert group in the Constitutional Commission has identified its positions. This material, which is now in the form of an amendment, is at least what it would have earned, that, of course, it would have been processed by an expert group before the decision was taken and, of course, an appropriate position was drawn up. Then it would be a credible decision on this proposal, but otherwise we are doing it on our mind, that is the problem. This amendment is not so innocent if we read it, I believe in well-intentionedness, but this well-intentionedness can then be written in practice, that we will have very many problems. That's the problem! That is why I believe it is now necessary to make a decision. But the only possible solution to this problem would be to, of course, postpone the decision and give the expert group the opportunity, which is almost impossible. At this point, however, I believe that this amendment, as it is written, raises more questions than clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u186	Thank you very much. In the following order, as you have applied: Mr Kremjar, Mr Pece, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe someone doesn't trust anyone, but let's be so right about listening to each other. If colleague Battelli said and announced the amendment and said roughly what the text should be - and the text goes in the direction of cleansing this matter so that there will be no doubt - then let us talk about it and not talk about an amendment that will be gone in two seconds or three minutes. Yes, Comrade Rokavec, I know that we have what we have in our hands right now, but if we listen, my colleague Battelli has talked about the change that is about to be made, and he has predicted what it will be like. And now talking about an amendment that will no longer make no sense - if nothing else. So, it's not necessary, of course, for someone there will not be enough of what will be written and it's completely acceptable. Personally, I think that's it. Something was just discussing us in this direction to understand the matter a little differently, and this interpretation that we are going to get will obviously go this way. Then let us discuss this, because it will be a topic of discussion, whether to include it as an amendment or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u189	The Constitution is not simple, it must not be a book of wishes and this must apply to representatives of minorities than to all other Members of the National Assembly. Once again, there is no constitution and the Constitution must not be a book of wishes. This was also realized before us by the founder when he prescribed personal procedures to amend the Constitution, even a special body 10 years ago and a few years ago. As we know, two thirds of all Members, not present, are required to change the Constitution, precisely because of the fact that it would not be the same as we now have before us, by chance, in the content of the Constitution. As we know, the procedure for changing the constitution is defined in different stages, after all, through the constitutional commission that has met, hand to heart, for the last two years. And the least I can say with certainty is that it is an unfair procedure when a Member wishes to amend the Constitution in this area in the context of pursuing its individual egotistic objectives in order to reach an agreement on a wider or replacement of voting. If the National Assembly accepts such a proposal or content as the foretold amendment follows - and it is right to say that at this point we have only one amendment on the table and we have no other amendment, so to speak about what is foretold, but we do not have before us, it would be unwise, irresponsible, Mr Kremjar, on our part. For on our part, only one amendment, which is detrimental to the development of the Republic of Slovenia, is in the procedure or on the part of my colleague Battelli, which is detrimental to the development of the Republic of Slovenia, which is already harmful because this national assembly decides briefly little to say very clearly that the vast majority of Slovenian citizens will become second-class citizens. It is as if we are ashamed in this country, that the Slovenia is no longer important. Now, in every category in our society, we will give special rights and special privileges, as if we no longer have enough in the old constitution. According to the National Party's assessment, this is ballast which must not enter the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution is the highest legal act within our country and therefore such an expression, already expressing wishes, individual desires, is harmful. If the intention of the proposer is serious and if it is not the intention of the proposer not only to challenge the other Members and thus to achieve the desired amendment or debate on the proposed amendment, it would be at least correct or most correct at a given time for the Constitutional Commission to meet this issue and to examine the matter. After all, the province in the province is the result of the proposed or pending amendment under heading 23.6.2004. And if we can be at the first amendment, given that the proposer, Mr Battelli and Mrs Possoncheva, obviously do not know what they want, so the third amendment to the amendment has already been announced, it means that in the worst case we will have a province in the province and that it will be in that province, which is basically said that there is an indigenous nation, as if there are no others living there, as if only Italians or Hungarians, and as if it is not in Slovenia, but we are talking about that it is in Hungary or Italy. Please! Slovenia is one and should remain one, including for future generations. It is not to be divided by such attempts of division, but by the end of the day by territories, although it does not say so, but it does contain rights and a specific situation. In its decision-making, all Members should bear in mind that such a sale, for the first time in the territory, for the second time in rights and ultimately in responsibilities, is irresponsible. However, it is also reasonable to point out that once again it has been proven that not all those who support such constitutional changes do not have in mind any of the criteria necessary to establish the province. Because if one member can just so come to the amendment by execution or by justification of a new province, and the government agrees to it, it means that we do not have the criteria for establishing the provinces. What I said before is only confirmed: that we do not have the tasks to be performed by the provinces, that we do not have a funding system set up and that the provinces are exclusively administrative and political bodies. And with such an act as Battelli has shown, not only is it a matter of selling our country, territory - I will repeat again, territories, rights and duties and financing - but it also proves that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is pursuing only one goal; this is the apparent enforcement of a new article that talks about the provinces, which will not bear any consequences, especially those that could be reflected in the life of the provinces. And if in the beginning I may still partly believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying, through its change of constitution, to achieve a level of local self-government through the implementation of the provinces, which will allow citizens and citizens to have a better stay, following the relationship now shown by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this meaningless amendment, we can all clearly see what is for the government; it is a purely pre-election move to get a constitutional category that will not - nothing to you - nothing to me - have absolutely no consequences. And such amendments, as Mr Battelli and Mrs Possonce have put forward or announced in the procedure, prove, once again, that we do not have any criteria on how to enforce the province or how to approach the formation of the landscapes if the amendment can be amended three times within four hours. Of course, we do not intend to support this type of work in the National Party. And the government of the Republic of Slovenia, as they say, forgive me in Maribor, but it is not easy for us to have the government we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u190	Thank you very much. In order to know how you will perform, two replicas of the performance of Mr Pečet, Mr Kremjar and Mrs Possonceva. Then the debates: Mr Jerovšek, Drobník, Battelli, Potč. Replica, Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u191	When the arguments go out, the height of the voice remains obvious. I'd like to propose something, Madam President. If we really cannot understand that the amendment will be amended, I would suggest that we wait for this amendment and then we are discussing it. Because if we have to, of course, know written communication and oral communication, I can accept each other if my colleagues cannot accept that a different text of the amendment has been announced, I would suggest, for the sake of this national assembly, that we wait for a written amendment and then discuss this amendment, which will only be valid, that we do not waste time and waste energy with a text that will not be in circulation in a few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Mr. Kremjar myself to wait for the amendment. However, to the gentleman from the Slovenian National Party, I would say that it is not the thousands of nationalities that harm Slovenia, but that it harms speaking as it has done here before the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I accept the proposals, and when the amendment is amended on the bench, we will continue the discussion until then, I am adjourning the meeting. Then proceed in order as you are reported. Mr. Barovich, shall I put you in line? [[It's a conversation in the joints.]] We continue when the amendments are on the bench. Until then, I am adjourning the meeting, in principle, in five minutes, but when the amendment to the Houses of Members and Members is amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u195	We have amended the amendment of the two groups of Members, so I invite the speakers to speak. First of all, I give my word to Mr. Jerovsk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u196	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u197	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Only Mr Jerovšek has the word. Please, let's be so patient with each other and let the discussers who want to say their own words speak in peace. Thank you very much. To the word of Mr Jerovsk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I have a modified amendment in my hands. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u199	I can't ask anything but, of course, I can't. Mr Jerovšek has the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to have peace around him when he speaks. I'm asking for peace! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u200	Thank you very much. In fact, we are talking about a very important matter and I have in my hands an amended amendment, which is slightly changed, which is slightly different from the previous one. Nevertheless, I think this amendment is extremely skillful. From this point of view, as regards skill, I must commend Mr Battelli, but his content is, in my opinion, very problematic, with very serious consequences. It brings, in my opinion, international consequences which I find unacceptable. For, it now says, "in the province in which the Italian or Hungarian national communities live autonomously." This means that, respected colleagues and colleagues, if we accept this, we are likely to deny the possibility of establishing the historic province of Primorska in this country at any time. Since then special rights would apply to the entire province of Primorski, we know what the historical province of Primorska looked like. Think about what it says. "Special" - and this is written very skillfully. The implications are extremely great and I am not prepared in such a way to imply certain solutions in our constitution to introduce which are totally contrary to the present Slovenian Constitution, and not without giving this matter any consideration - as has already been mentioned - to experts. This came at the last minute. Without such a matter being defined by the government - I think at least the government should represent the interests of Slovenia. And look, I can't understand that you're willing to trade for two votes, for two votes. And concrete political interests to consolidate their power through national elections, just in case, you're willing to trade in vital state interests. Furthermore, Mr Kremjar has previously found that what is on paper now I have commented on what is on paper. We once accepted an amendment that spoke of a special statute. That was a very serious warning. Nevertheless, today we received the amendment at the table again in its original form, which speaks of the special statute of the province. And I must once again commend Mr Battelli for being able to politically adapt, to search for millimetre cracks, and that with diplomatic skill, which is typical, I must commend this, for Italian diplomacy, for, say, being able to bring confusion between us and completely irresponsible conduct, the thinking of many Members because of the selfish political interests of two voices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u201	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u202	Madam President, I think this debate is completely unproductive because of the unreasonable amendment, so I am giving it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u204	Here is a new text that all of these doubts about whether two provinces should be formed exclusively where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live are eliminated. The text, which was just completed and distributed, has a new text in its head on the right, saying: "In the province in which the Italian or Hungarian national communities live autonomously," this province may also include Ljubljana, "the special rights and position of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and take into account the cultural and nationalities and other characteristics of the national mixed areas are being established." In an explanation which is always the same, in the second paragraph, you have the following: "For the fact that it is a matter of transferring certain powers from country to country - for example, in the field of education, secondary education will probably go into the jurisdiction of the provinces, it will no longer be under the jurisdiction of the state. Therefore, in the law establishing or in the statute of those provinces which may be small, large, we do not know, but which will also include national communities, these provinces will also have to take our secondary education for the needs of national communities. That's what this is about. Of course it's true, because it can't be otherwise. And probably also culture, and probably something else about it, and some administrative powers that will be linked to all of this. Not to say it's not true, because it's decentralisation, because if it isn't, why are we doing all this at all? The truth is that certain State powers will be transferred and also financed from countries to regions. And why do you have to have that, even though article 64 of the Constitution says what it says? Because some political majority will make statutes. And those who will make the statutes of these two provinces, which I don't know how big, here have a direct reference to what must be in these provinces. It is not that the debate begins on what will happen now, once again, the discussion of the whole legislation, which is so imperfect and which concerns the situation of the national community in the Republic of Slovenia. I think it's a terribly simple thing and it's real. Because if we go into decentralisation, we're going to face it. And now, if we have a province that covers what I know, I'm talking about an example of us, including Bovec, Illyrian Bistrica, Tolmin, and I don't know which other congregations. Who's going to convince those people that something needs to be done for the minority? In the statute. And that's discipline, that's guidance, that's disciplining matter. And here there's no doubt that we need something like this, because no other province will have these specificities to solve, except those two who, in one way or another, have captured places where there is this education, where there is this culture, where there is this language, where there is bilinguality and so on. That's all it's about! I don't know about any of the cataclysms about paranoia and intimidations that either way pick us up by a quarter of young people for ten years. Because it is our fault, the Italians, for fascism, for the second world war, for communism in the mentality of these people; and at the same time for the position of the Slovenian in Italy. Who will define himself as Italian in such an atmosphere? Look at the census analysis, 23.7% of the people are less. And they changed their membership, mostly in the category up to 44 years old. We're not old, not true, people are all there, but they don't say their place anymore, that's the story. And that's not what I'm saying. I see nothing dramatic in this, I see in the adoption of this responsible action for making things right; just as it is fitting for a democratic, modern, civilized country. And these citizens and one minority and another minority, these people have never done any harm to Slovenia. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u205	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Potsch. Here you go. Mr. Potts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u206	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Parliament, we have the right of Members and Members to express our personal views, as well as the views of the parties. And I understand that different parties have different views on certain issues, including the situation of minorities in Slovenia. I would like to say that the United List of Social Democrats as a European Social Democratic Party also respects the special rights of minorities. It believes that this is one of the major acquisitions of regulation in Slovenia. He believes that this is one of the great achievements of regulation in Europe. Minorities are supposed to bring people closer together, not separate. However, we respect or accept that someone else has another opinion to make it clear. I believe that it is then heard and listened to by citizens and citizens. I am sorry that this debate has gone so far as to define our attitude towards the problem of minorities. It's just that it's probably the situation that we have to do. That's the first one. The second is the issue of regulation, which is the content of this amendment. I understand that, when and if I agree with my colleague Anderlich, today's debate does not give much optimism that it will soon be, but when and if we decide on the provinces and if, on the basis of the transfer of the work of jurisdiction from municipalities to the province or from country to country, it is also in the part concerning the regulation of rights and the situation of minorities that, in this case, the province will also have to worry that the equality and special rights of minorities enshrined in the 64th Article of the Constitution are also being exercised through the province. And that's how I understand the content of this amendment, and I think that this supplement is appropriate in this direction. Unfortunately, we had to hear a warning that the text had not been well written since the beginning. I hope it's better written now. If it is not better written, in this case, as in all others, on the basis of a debate in the Constitutional Commission, an expert and expert group will be able to agree precisely on the content as we prepare a proposal for a text of the Constitutional Law. As I have now interpreted it, it is said that when it comes to transferring from municipalities to the province or from the Republic to the province and it concerns the exercise by the Constitution of the specific rights of both indigenous minorities, then the province will also have to regulate this part in this way. I will and I believe, after consulting colleagues and colleagues of the United List, that the contents of this amendment have been supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Once again, please, we're talking, I think this is really the third version of the amendment. Colleagues and colleagues! Dear colleague Maria Pozsonec first! He can give the words that we say in the Slovenian National Party, when it harms us who have spoken them, personally to him, to his colleagues, and never to the Slovenian people, and they will not, that is what you said. I have to apologize to my colleague. I have to defend him. Another time. The indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and their members are guaranteed the right to freely use national symbols, to preserve national identity, to establish organisations, to develop economic, cultural and so on. Everything clearly, exactly, is spelled out in Article 64 of the Constitution. Any region will be established, its legislation, everything that applies to this region will have to respect this Article of the Constitution. Morale. It also clearly states that the law regulates the situation and manner in which the rights of the Italian or Hungarian national communities are exercised. Once again, please understand, we cannot push into the constitution the things that have already been written. To speak of special rights, these special rights are precisely listed in Article 64 and will not be corrected by a respected colleague for another community, Roma, in Article 65 of the Constitution. So it's all clear. What if the Slovenian National Party now invents itself and demands that we want another fifth paragraph because we want special rights for Slovenians who live where minorities live. Now we can play this game the way we want it, or we want it or we don't want it. Above all, I would like to ask something before I finish, I would like to conclude with one thought, especially when we are all so'smart', I would very much like to hear the government's opinion, the government's opinion specifically on this amendment. And at the end of the day let me have one thought, let me say the last sentence, this is the most important thing in all of this, that I won't be guilty of anything. We used to live in a common country. It consisted of several republics, within these republics there were two autonomous provinces. And one of these is responsible for what happened. The last sentence: Any similarity is merely a coincidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon, please. You don't want to. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will support this amendment, as it is. I think it's clearly written down enough, and if we read the explanation, the second paragraph, it's all in there. Because of this fact, such landscapes will have to be shaped, i.e. landscapes that will be shaped, to which certain powers will be transferred, when, if those covering national mixed congregations, they will necessarily have a different status than the rest of the provinces. However, a different status in this respect. This is the specific original and delegated powers relating to the situation and rights of national communities. It says very clearly what it's about. Therefore, I do not think it makes any sense once again, since my colleague Battelli has also said this once again that it is not about establishing special Italian or Hungarian landscapes, but that it is simply a fact that the specificities where minorities live are also taken into account when transferring jurisdiction to the provinces. That's basically what this is about. It is sad, however, that we do not want to understand this in this way and some things which are nevertheless perfectly regulated in this country, which, after all, was very much stressed at the time of entry into the European Community as one of the first things here. There is no problem with the text of this, it is problematic, and it is sad, the attitude towards minorities, to this achievement that many countries do not have. And we have it, and thank God we have it. As a result, of course, it is sad that we are in trouble today. But we're problematic it in this way to look for some vote trading, etc., which is nonsense. That's ridiculous. It's funny when someone thinks they're talking about a serious question like this. Of course, the debate may be one or the other, but it seems that there is some conspiracy to trade in votes, a very skillfully written amendment that wants something else, etc., is, of course, unworthy of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich and then Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u212	Thank you, Madam President. I must say that what I heard earlier from a colleague who spoke about some forms of autonomous landscapes, I think it was completely depressed and completely inappropriate for such a discussion when we are talking about changing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are talking about our fellow citizens, members of minorities, and we are talking about how we will regulate their rights in the future possible regionalisation of Slovenia. We are not talking about SFRJ, we are not talking about any other association, as we are talking about Slovenia, our country and our organisation. I think that, too, Comrade Battelli, by raising our voices here on this point, we are probably not going to help get any more support for this amendment. I believe that, as submitted, it is better than the previous one and is able to support it. I think that the Constitutional Commission will then have some work to do in order to try to regulate this second part, which speaks of taking into account the cultural, landscape and other characteristics of the national mixed areas. I think it's something that's burdening the text and it's going to be a big problem to process this so that we can bring this into our constitution. On the other hand, I agree that this first part is certainly better and it is the power to support it as an amendment for further procedures. We remain in different opinions on why the dramatic fall of members of the Italian minority and, of course, Hungary also remains. I wouldn't discuss it. I think that it is finally necessary for the competent services and institutions to analyse the census and find the right reasons not to be misinterpreted on the one hand and on the other hand for the reasons for this decline.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I would also like to invite Madam Secretary of State, Mrs Astrid Prašnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u214	Thank you, for your word. I'd like to highlight the two. First of all, this is the moment to form a position and follow the procedure that will lead, in the event that these views are adopted today, to the drafting of the text of the constitutional law. The government will also continue to cooperate in this procedure and will be able to define itself in all further procedures. We're already at this other point, which I'd like to stress. Of course, the Government has not defined this specific amendment. Today, representatives of the government can talk about the opinion, in particular the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, in this way we also participate in the debate all the time. Otherwise, as I say, in the event that a constitutional law is needed in any way to be defined by the Government, the text will certainly also be addressed and the State Assembly will inform it of this opinion or position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I think I can wrap this up. The report of the Constitutional Commission, the views and the amendments is therefore closed. Following the agreement reached at the outset by the President of the National Assembly, we will be voting on all positions and amendments in 10 minutes. So at 5:40 a.m., we are voting on the proposals for positions and amendments to these positions. Thank you very much. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-06-23-SDZ3-Izredna-47.ana.u216	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to a decision on the positions and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.6.2004. Before voting, I would like to inform you that, subject to the provisions of Article 178(3) of the Rules of Procedure, an amendment to the position will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more Members and Members. The same majority also applies to the adoption of an individual position. First, we will move to a decision on the first position on the position adopted by the Constitutional Commission on Article 121. He says that the amendment of Article 121 of the Constitution should be adopted in the proposed text, adding the word 'defined' in the second paragraph to the word 'adjustment'. We are voting on the position on Article 121. There are 62 of us present, 48 votes against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed position on Article 121 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the 2nd position proposed by the Constitutional Commission to Article 140, which states that the second paragraph of Article 140 of the Constitution should be amended to read: "According to the consent of the municipality, the State may, by law, transfer to the municipality individual tasks under State jurisdiction, provided that funds are also provided for this." We are voting on this proposal. There are 64 of us present, 48 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the 2nd position has also been adopted. The 3rd position was drafted by the Constitutional Commission on Article 143, and we have it under order number 3. And under 1 and 2, we have two amendments. Under 1 is the amendment to the 3rd position, i.e. to the position of the Constitutional Commission, the proposaler is the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and says that "before deciding on the establishment of the province, the National Assembly must obtain the consent of the municipal councils of at least two-thirds of the municipalities of each province, whose population is at least two-thirds of the population of each province." First, we vote on the amendment to the position of the Constitutional Commission on Article 143. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 19 Members and Members voted against 34. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, namely the amendment of the parliamentary groups of nationalities, the text of which reads: "In the province in which the Italian or Hungarian national communities live autonomously, special rights and the position of the Italian and Hungarian national communities are also established and take into account the cultural and regional and other characteristics of the national mixed areas." We are voting on this amendment to the position. There are 62 of us present, 41 Members and Members voted against 7. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get enough support. We are now moving on to a decision on the text of Article 143 of the Constitution as a position proposed by the Constitutional Commission, which says that this article of the Constitution should be amended by making a statement, the province is a wider self-government local community that carries out local affairs of wider importance and by law of a particular matter of regional importance. The Law on Provinces and Their Financing shall be adopted by a national assembly with a two-thirds majority vote of the Members present. The province shall be established by law establishing the territory, seat and name of the province and adopted by a national assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. In accordance with the law adopted by the National Assembly and in accordance with the outcome of the municipal referendum, the municipality has the right to join the neighbouring province. Before deciding on the establishment of the province, the National Assembly must call on the municipal councils in its territory to give their opinion. The State may, by law, transfer to the province individual tasks under State jurisdiction and must provide the necessary resources. We are taking a decision on this proposal for a position on the 143rd Article of the Constitution proposed by the Constitutional Commission. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Sok. I suspended the vote because you raised your hand during the vote. Is there something wrong with the voting device? It's okay. We are voting again on the proposal for a position. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 45 votes against 17. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposal for a position on the text of Article 143 of the Constitution proposed by the Constitutional Commission has not received the necessary support. However, the necessary support was given to two views, namely the position on Article 121 and Article 140. On the basis of these two views adopted, the Constitutional Commission for the July session of the Assembly will draw up a proposal for a constitutional law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you all very much and good-bye.
