ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon to all of you! Nice greetings also for those who will join the National Assembly next. The 36th regular session will begin by setting the agenda. Some of our colleagues and colleagues are absent because of other obligations. These are colleagues Barovic, Battelli, Brenčič, Gračner, Kangler, Malovre, Peterle, Trofenic and colleague mag. A visor. As a matter of fact, I'm going to start the 36th meeting of the choir. I called on her on the basis of Rule 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the agenda for the meeting. May I have your attention, please? I've got three announcements on my withdrawals. We'll go in line, just announce them, by then some of our colleagues and colleagues will be joining us in the hall. The first withdrawal is proposed by the LDS Member Club and by the ZLSD and DeSUS Group. It is a proposal to withdraw from the agenda a proposal for a first-reading society law. Then we have a proposal from the same three parliamentary groups to withdraw the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development at first reading. And colleague Pucko proposes to withdraw from the agenda the draft law on amendments and additions to the securities market law; this is the proposal of colleague Puck, Chairman of the Finance Committee. We'll do it in a row. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose the withdrawal of another point, namely the 14th agenda item, the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which had registered permanent residence on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992 in the Republic of Slovenia. Explanation. In view of the fact that a referendum has been adopted and the content of that law, which has been the subject of a referendum, has also found its way in this law, it is necessary to respect the Constitution, and in one year no changes are allowed in the opposite direction, as the referendum says. That would mean a violation of the Constitution. I therefore propose that item 14 of the agenda be withdrawn from this meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I must point out that, in the event of such a wish, we should respect Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that proposals for individual matters to be withdrawn from the agenda and proposals for the agenda to be extended shall be submitted to the President of the National Assembly no later than 12 noon. So that's why we can't make that decision. However, proposals for withdrawal as well as written initiatives were announced at the last meeting of the College. The LDS Member Club and the ZLSD and DeSUS Group propose to withdraw the proposal for a company law from the agenda. Does the proposer want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Then we will vote on the motion to withdraw. Please check your voting devices. Please, if you check your voting devices, I don't see any warning from the hall that anything is wrong with any of the voting devices. We are moving to a vote on the motion for withdrawal. 53 present, 43 for and 5 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] This withdrawal has been accepted. The same three parliamentary groups propose to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development at first reading. Does the proposer want a word? Emissary groups? Please, colleague Kelemin, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Respectable all together. Our parliamentary group is most strongly protesting the withdrawal of this bill from the agenda. In fact, this National Assembly is certainly well aware of all the debates and debates and interests, both Members, Mayors, local communities, interests of various areas, where there has been so much talk about how urgent it is to do something in the area of regional development, but it is obvious that this topic, respected colleagues, does not smell. Why not? Why you don't want to take a step forward in this area, I don't understand. And I'd like an explanation. The ones you're withdrawing, tell me why. This is unacceptable, yes, and how do you imagine that we will take a step forward in the area of regional development if you do not even want to adopt an amendment to the law or a amendment to the law in this area. The old law had not been implemented, we had it on the programme for five years or so, and in fact it did not even come true in accordance with the regional development strategy and also all the other strategies adopted by this National Assembly, and neither did 10%. How do you imagine to somehow divide or prevent the further decline of individual regions, individual provinces, large unemployment, structural underdevelopment. All these things are so hot in some areas that they are simply not possible, but especially before the elections, to be ignored. That's impossible. And expect this to be one of the main topics that we will want to discuss. You have taken from us demographically endangered assets that today would be at least as valuable as a package of direct regional incentives. The real and those funds were intended to be used mainly for those areas that were demographically threatened, which were underdeveloped, and today the regional development funds receive mainly centres, those centres where the staff are trained, where they are able to prepare programmes to compete on these calls. In short, this is an unacceptable act and our parliamentary group against it should protest more strongly and we will vote against this law withdrawing from the agenda. And you'd really like to hear an explanation that you obviously don't want to say. In short, we'll go against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u5	Please, Comrade Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u6	Notwithstanding the fact that the law is not written in the same way as we want it to be in the parliamentary group, it nevertheless has all the elements necessary to allow it into the procedure. Finally, because of the necessity of drawing funds from European funds and therefore we need to have an institutional structure, not just formally, but formally too little, these are demanding projects that require a lot of knowledge, a lot of coordination and also a lot of time. And because of this, we are not in the parliamentary group for these reasons to be on the agenda and then we will be late again. We trust those who have so far conducted all the coordination procedures at the regional, local levels where they have tried to respect their will, so this team has done a lot of work, although, as we say, it is not as much as it would have been necessary, but in the process they could make these changes and get a suitable law to draw the funds properly. This is now necessary at this time, as the terms of taxes, import duties and certain sectors are changing greatly. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u7	On behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, Comrade Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u8	Thank you. There have been so many speeches and references to the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development that in the Slovenian National Party we assess that the least that we are worthy of is all Members and all the Slovenian public to find out why it is withdrawing. When we hear the exact reasons for withdrawing, we will decide on the basis of these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u9	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u10	The proposal to withdraw this item from this meeting was made after it was more than obvious that the proposal for a agenda was so extensive and with such a great amount of time announced, more than 8 hours for this item alone, and would certainly protest, you would certainly protest that you are already protesting such an important topic by way of the limitation referred to in Article 67(3). Because it is certainly not true that if the law is no longer implemented than 10% that the law cannot be implemented which is in force. There's something wrong here somewhere else. Also by law on the financing of municipalities, etc. There's something wrong that we've heard many times before. And because it is also true that the constitutional change, if even regionalisation, about the provinces, etc., has not been adopted in any way, has been taken into account in order for that part to be realized, which some also say could be done in the context of balanced development in Slovenia, in order to make it possible, through what we now have on the agenda, exclusively to share the funds or to obtain them from the common European budget on this basis - it is not true. Because right now there are calls for money for some projects and this part can be done in this way. That's why I think it's right to move this point to June.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u11	We're deciding on a motion to withdraw. No, there's no explanation for that. We're deciding on a motion to withdraw. We're voting! He's not working. He's got his hand up. I have previously warned my colleagues and colleagues twice that we are cautious about Rok being raised in time, once again, I must always stress this. [[...]] If one or the other of the hall finds that one of the colleagues raised his hand in time before the outcome is known, I repeat the vote, but not in good time. This time it was done in time. We're voting! Is everything okay with the voting devices now, Comrade Janc? My friend Janc, are you all right? Comrade Jerovšek? So do I. We're voting! 62 in attendance, 32 in, 25 in. (For the vote was 32.)(against 25.) This proposal has been withdrawn. I have been warned that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has proposed to withdraw from the agenda, and this is accepted by the Automated State Assembly. Comrade Pucko, would you like to explain this to the chairman of the committee? No, okay. Then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this is automatically withdrawn because it has proposed to the Committee. It's spreading. We have two proposals for enlargement, both from the government. This is an extension, first of all by addressing the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Cybercrime Convention and the Additional Protocol to the Cybercrime Convention, which deals with the incrimination of racist and xenophobic acts committed in information systems. The proposer is the government. I see he doesn't want a word. Does one of the members of the Group wish to comment on this? I am voting on this proposal for enlargement. Proposal for an extension on the proposal for a law on ratification. There are many more colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber than there are after the vote. We vote on extending the agenda a second time. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 45 in and 3 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] We've expanded the point. We've expanded the agenda with this point. The government also proposes to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America amending the agreement between Slovenia and the United States of America on cooperation in preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Any of the MPs want a word? Nobody. We vote on it. 59 in attendance, 46 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] The extension has been accepted. Before proceeding to the decision on the establishment of the agenda, I would like to inform you that the assembly decided, at its 45th extraordinary meeting, when considering the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the proposal for an act would be considered at this meeting. The National Assembly will carry out its consideration of the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure by means of a reduced procedure as item 17 of the agenda. We shall now vote on the agenda in its entirety. Who's up for it and who's up against it, please vote. 61 in attendance, 42 in and 11 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 11.]] The agenda of the 36th regular meeting was adopted. At 3 p.m., at the presence of the Prime Minister, his ministers and ministers, we will move on to the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. By 3 p.m., I'm adjourning the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's 3 p.m., time to move on to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. I salute the Prime Minister! Mr Prime Minister, ministers and ministers are ready for your parliamentary questions. I take it you also have data on the bench on which Not yet? [[...]] At any moment, as is now in practice, you will receive information on which questions, particularly written questions, ministers and ministers have not yet answered. We will go as we said in the Rules of Procedure, first they will be Mag to the Prime Minister. Once again, I welcome Anton Ropa with questions raised by representatives of opposition parliamentary groups. This time he will receive the first word of colleague Janez Podobnik, followed by colleague Bogomir Zamernik and then by colleague Dr. Andrej Bajuk. First of all, colleague Janez Sponik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u13	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister, ministers! I am asking the Prime Minister the question of the possibility of opening new jobs in the Republic of Slovenia. By entering the European Union, many economic activities will be under additional pressure from the competitiveness of the common European market. Therefore, even in Slovenia, unfortunately, we will not be able to avoid some new bankruptcys in typical activities which unfortunately have not yet been restructured. Certainly, such activities can be made by the textile and leather industries, perhaps also by food, including banking and a number of other activities that are now being protected by the protection of the national market or domestic monopolies. The inclusion of Slovenia in the exchange rate mechanism, ERM 2, with consequently restrictive fiscal and monetary policy will certainly affect the state of unemployment. The first will be known to us after a significant reduction in public spending and the second in the elimination of the sliding exchange rate. In the world, it is known that it is very important for the development of the labour market that new jobs create small and medium-sized enterprises based on high flexibility to new market requirements and market opportunities. It is therefore very important that new jobs are created in innovative companies, with a high level of added value, and that the state makes it possible to employ workers as easily as possible and also reduces the overall level of labour taxation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the increase in public funds for scientific research and also support the transfer of knowledge from research to private, entrepreneurial spheres. All these factors are expected to affect the creation of new jobs, which is the only way to replace the expected job losses in the above mentioned economic activities. The competent authority in the government generally represents active employment policy measures based on more or less standard measures on the demand for jobs, but unfortunately they have a difficult impact on job offers. We are classified as European countries with a relatively low unemployment rate, but we do not know how many people are actually unemployed. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and how many are not among the unemployed, because they have given up and have landed in the inactive category. [[...]] That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Prime Minister: How many new jobs will the labour market offer over a period of one year? What will be their structure after education, by region, after technological difficulty? And how many jobs will be created in Slovenia over a period of one year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u14	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for an interesting and of course very important question for Slovenia. A number of projections are made with regard to jobs and assessments. In general, higher economic growth is expected in Slovenia for 2004, as you probably know, it is estimated to be 3.6%, or additional employment. And what is extremely important is that in 2004 Slovenia is assessed for an even faster growth in investment consumption. Already in the European Commission's last report, which we received when addressing the Lisbon Strategy, Slovenia was presented as one of those countries that comes out after investment activities, even in the private sector, and in this part we are above average. We have an investment activity that is faster than on average in the European Union and faster than most of the new and old members of the European Union. First of all, you might want to shed a little more light on some of these questions that you've asked. Perhaps at first very briefly on this issue, what is the difference between those who have been reported and those who are actually unemployed? And you have rightly found that in Slovenia unemployment is below average, comparable to the European Union and most European countries. In Slovenia, however, we have measured both unemployment, measured according to the ILO methodology, as well as by law, so-called registered unemployment. And for 2003, this unemployment rate is 6.6%, in the European Union is 8.1%, and registered unemployment is 11.2%, and this is the gap between those who have been reported and those who say after the polls that they actually tried to get a job, but they couldn't. So each year, the Employment Survey Office conducts a survey in all district units on how many jobs are expected for each of the units. The planned need for new jobs registered by regional units or reporting units for 2004 is 21,858. At the same time, it also conducts a study on the extent to which, in the case of companies for each year, it is estimated that job losses will occur. And for 2004, this estimate is 7,623 jobs and is therefore a net positive difference, according to this survey carried out by the Employment Service, 14,235. I can tell you something about these numbers. In processing activities this net difference is 3.452 and so on. The financial intermediation, which you specifically mentioned, shows the planned needs of 677 and the loss of only 18 jobs and so on. I can also give you this table and you will see exactly after each activity. This information is also collected in individual areas and can be seen in this picture. For example, there are 1,700 new jobs and 605 jobs in the Cell Area Unit. In Maribor 2,304 new jobs and 947 lost jobs. In short, 1,357 et cetera, all district units. I can give you that information, too. So, my assessment is that higher economic growth, in particular higher economic growth in our most important external trading partners, as you know, is recorded in Germany in the first quarter, higher economic growth than originally estimated, which also appears in major contracts in Slovenian companies, gives all the opportunity for additional employment, for economic growth, which, of course, is accompanied by significant investment activity, which means, of course, that we can look with optimism in 2004 and 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u16	Comrade Podobnik wants to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u17	Thank you, President. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. In his reply, the Prime Minister was very optimistic. He listed the data, in particular the Customs and Maribor region, in order to create significantly more jobs than will be lost. Data, Prime Minister, for whom we will hold your word at the end of the year or at those meetings just before the 2004 elections. I think this will be one of the key questions. But allow me, Prime Minister, to ask you specifically, I have information here for the Celje region. The survey of the regional chamber of work on a regular basis of this study, has repeatedly found that highly educated staff are mainly employed in traditional economic activities, in large companies and in the public sector. Isn't this a situation that doesn't predict the possibility of real convergence? However, it is always spoken of primarily by the Minister of Finance, and it is right to speak that way. And the second question, very concretely: What concrete measures to increase job supply, but not to mention active employment policy measures, will the government start implementing to improve the functioning of the labour market by the end of 2004? But you haven't said anything in answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u18	Complementary response. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u19	As you know, the government is preparing an active employment policy programme for each year and you yourself have mentioned that you know this programme. So an active employment policy programme is a public document and everyone can look at it and there is an accurate list of individual actions that show what government programmes are. Otherwise, according to my assessment, the most important programme for increasing the number of jobs, for new investments and higher economic growth is exactly what you are concerned about, this being the entry into the ERM 2 and into the euro. I think that, of course, relatively very good success in the field of inflation reduction and, accordingly, lowering interest rates in Slovenia gives us very good opportunities for additional investment. In fact, the fundamental economic problem we are facing right now is whether we will succeed in turning the lower interest rate into a higher investment activity of the private sector and not into a higher consumption. This is an old dilemma, and in some countries that have entered the euro area, they have had this problem. If, of course, we manage to turn the lower interest rate into higher investments, then, of course, it is the best guarantee, the most stable, the most long-term guarantee that we will have more jobs and, above all, that these jobs will be stable in the long term.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u20	Good. This was the answer to a question from a colleague of the likes. The next question will be asked by my colleague, Mr Zammernik, to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I also agree with Mr. Podobnik's observation that the answer to previous questions was very optimistic and I will be happy to send this answer to the textile industry in Prebold, where they face different problems [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u22	Ambassador, there is no discussion of answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u23	I'll ask you a question right away. Mr President, I would ask you to try to imagine a man who was working fairly almost even his lifetime, earning more or less a good salary, somehow ripping off his mouth to save some money, and if he was lucky that this money didn't completely take inflation, if he also had a little bit of caution in him that he didn't get it from some catch the cash brokers or some fair play games, then he tried to buy real estate in the fall or before the fall of his life. When he bought this property, of course he believed in the rule of law that the matter would go exactly as it had to, but here they ran into, as you know, very difficult problems, 27 of them, I think around 100 buyers, the matter was resolved, by chance. I'm saying by chance because I find it hard to believe. Among the 27 who have a problem solved and have become owners of these real estates they have bought, they are found by the Chairman of the Finance Committee, and some very narrow relatives of some high political officials, the directors of the lottery, are said to be all those who have money and the others are waiting for their right as a servant of Jernej. And they sent you, Mr President, a well-intentioned letter on 19.3. this year, saying that they were extremely pleased because you presented the Slovenian public and were dedicated to the first keys in the Zbilje Gaj, and this gave them the assurance that your word will be valid and that this problem will be resolved and saved. Unfortunately, this did not happen for other buyers, only for those who have relationships and acquaintances. They said they were willing to inform you about the inaccurate records, the concealment of data, the diversion of payments from approved credits to their connections and other banks, but despite such a well-meaning letter, they did not receive a response. That's why I'm asking you now in their name: When can they expect an answer? Or can they expect a solution to the problem at some point? What will you do if you find out about the irregularities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u24	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much for the question, although it goes - as usual, it seems - to your parliamentary group this time for the unannounced question. So again, the question I got was equality before the law. Probably because of not being able to obtain specific data in advance, so as to be able to familiarise the Slovenian public with the stage of the matter and what individual authorities are doing in this case. You probably didn't want to do that, so you didn't ask me earlier because you really wouldn't see any problem that the SDS Group would be so correct and would follow the rules of procedure and not break it every time and again and write once and for all what it wants to ask that we could get the data in advance. Good. Nevertheless, you are only now asking this question and you are probably counting on the Prime Minister to know all the data for all specific cases in Slovenia. But it's true that when it came to Zbiljski Gaj, for the first time, to this problem, I also engaged myself. At that time I called all the ministers who covered this area and, of course, ordered each of the ministries to do everything within the competence of the individual ministry in order to help solve the problem in this particular case, and in particular to prevent such problems from ever happening in Slovenia and, of course, to detect the responsibility of individuals in this case, in a case where this is possible. I specifically ordered the Minister of Justice of that time to look at the Notariat Act, to see what he could do in the sense of establishing responsibility, if he suspected that such a responsibility existed in relation to the conduct of individual notaries. So these activities were triggered. As you know, very well, we have also changed the law, so we have prevented such cases from happening at any time. At the same time, of course, we have also ordered in the part where we can and I have committed myself to ordering the representatives of the State to be as inclined as possible in this situation of problem-solving, the pressure of individuals. And on the basis of these activities, there has been a beginning of an accelerated resolution of this problem, and now you have informed me, as it is obvious your custom, that in these 27 cases there are some who are suspicious that some, who are obviously ordinary citizens, have been exempted. Of course, I'm going to look at this list, just like I looked at that list that was last reported to me about wages and wasn't announced in advance. For the last time I could have looked at this, I could have found that, for example, a few municipalities are founders of institutions where directors pay over a million dollars and that in some of these municipalities are mayors of SDS, and no one has done anything to reduce these salaries. If asked as necessary, according to the Rules of Procedure I would, of course, be happy to tell you this for the last time, believe me, I would be happy to tell you, because this indicates the duality that you are also saying in this case. So, yes, this case will continue to be monitored, and within the opportunities we have, we will help people, even so that, of course, these problems will be resolved if they are, of course, done.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u26	Let me explain, my colleague Zammernik will confirm this that I initially rejected the question of the Member, because I considered it too clear as required by the Rules of Procedure, then my colleague Zammernik added it to his opinion and then pawned it. You want a follow-up question? Completing the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u27	I hope the Prime Minister has now heard your comment, Mr President. Here you're telling me that I don't want this problem to be solved, obviously you don't want it, you didn't answer to those who sent you letter 19.3 and you could answer those statements that you got two months ago to the people who were hurt. I have then completed, as the President of Parliament has now said, the questions of the Members, so that you know very well what question I am sending you and what I am sending you. This letter of 51 has been with you for two months or more. By means of translation - let the Slovenian public assess who is presenting it here. My colleague Jerovšek told me that it would be good if you could be sent to the English Parliament to attend school sometime because questions are asked directly, not after two months of previous announcements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u28	Only the Prime Minister is right. I think that the Prime Minister is right, I expect, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that he is clearly presented with the question of the Member State, so that he can prepare himself for it and explain himself in such a way that you will be satisfied with the answer. [[...]] The Prime Minister can't know everything. He can only know what's being asked. That is why I also demand that parliamentary questions be put in the way they should be. Dr. Andrey Bajuk will ask you a question. Please respond? Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u29	So that you don't stay unspoken. So obviously, you've been manifestly violating the rules of procedure. You didn't send that question on Friday. I have now further checked with the Secretary-General, this was sent in the morning, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, which is contrary to the rules and is definitely true to what I have said. You deliberately did not send a question so that you could not get an answer because you do not want an answer because you want to say what you said and do not want problems in this society to be resolved. You've actually done this on the four issues you've asked so far. Every time you put them up, you didn't announce in advance that you couldn't prepare an answer. However, if, of course, the National Assembly considers that it is customary in European countries to ask questions unannounced, then I will immediately agree to this, but then the answers will be different. Then the answers will be very correct and very concrete when it comes to questions relating directly to the work of the Prime Minister. However, when it comes to specific areas, you will later receive explanations, and this is explained in detail; there is no problem at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u30	The Prime Minister is right. He has the right to receive a full question so that he can prepare himself for it. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u31	Mr Prime Minister, it is clear to me that I do not want to get an answer to the question whether they are actually on the list of the 27 people who have received a resolution on these apartments and that we do not want this matter to be clarified here before this high assembly. Since I want to show that this is not the case, and because you have, as I said before, two months of this question raised and you did not want to answer it, I am procedurally proposing that the National Assembly should hold a debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the issue of the Zbilje Gaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u32	Well, that's what we'll do tomorrow. However, I have to explain again, this could be an integral part of your question, and then the Prime Minister could prepare himself for it. My friend Dr. Bayuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u33	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! In my question today, on two specific occasions, I would like to ask you - this is in the case of failure to implement the measures of the Court of Auditors at the Government's IT centre and the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia - to explain: Does the programme of this government, or does the programme of the Liberal Democracy and the United List also contain such programming points as the provision or realization of the rule of law, the equality of market and other entities before the law, economic, efficient and thus reduced budgetary and other public spending? These are important programming points of New Slovenia and the Coalition of Slovenia, and we have sought to implement such programming points at the last extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where you have prevented this in our manner, which reminds us of other times, by disregarding the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. In addition, we have been working on our programming points, such as the lowest possible presence of state capital in companies and the most transparent and successful withdrawal of the country from the economy, the transparent functioning of the capital market, as we are committed to ensuring that companies with state capital are listed as soon as possible on the organised market of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. You have simply rejected all conclusions on the implementation of such programming points, which cannot be interpreted differently from that of your government programme. These are the points of our program, not, as you said in the last interview, that this is an expression, and I quote here, "the position of the opposition in no way." This is the realisation of our programme, not any alternative or populist, nationalist radicalisation or the playing of string corruption, as you have been extremely irresponsible in trying to alert readers with your statements. Now, Mr President, I ask you to explain to citizens and citizens: Why did you not take into account the Court of Auditors, which, almost a year ago in the post-audit procedure, in accordance with its statutory powers, called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to dismiss the head of the Information Centre for failing to comply with the law on public procurement, for issuing a false document and thereby directly and indirectly ignoring all the previously mentioned principles of the rule of law, market competition, transparent public consumption? Is that how the government behaves respect for the rule of law? Please also explain, Mr President: Why did you not also take into account the call of the most resilient Court of Auditors to resolve the Chairman of the Tax Administration, who in more than five years did not feel responsible for establishing a single information system, up-to-date and uniform tax records and so on? Is that how the government behaves respect for the rule of law? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u34	The Prime Minister is obliged to answer the question, as you wrote in writing, Dr. Bajuk, on the implementation of the requirements of the Court of Auditors concerning Durs and the Centre for Informatics. That was a question of the mission, you have to answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u35	Okay, here too we had an introduction, and I think it's good that we have such an introduction and I am very pleased that you're also stressing the programming points. And whenever this is the subject of discussion, I will be happy to confront you with the programming points that the government, which the government and the government will also present publicly with your programming platforms. I think this is good for Slovenia, and I have repeatedly stressed this, good for Slovenia if different programming documents compete with each other and if you want, different visions of Slovenia. And I am pleased that you may turn back to your programming points, which you have obviously written down and highlighted today. And we will probably find together that some of them can be, in relation to them, we agree that some of them are not. And it is good to present this to the entire Slovenian public. So today is the second question, the President, which concerns Durs and the CVI. It's two officers or they were officers in this case. And in both cases, with regard to the Court of Auditors' report, I would like to say that the response reports show that most of what the Court of Auditors has charged has also been completed and met. In 2002, for the first time, we had a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors regarding the operation of the government and individual ministries. In these two specific cases, we have also informed the Court of Auditors of what to do in this situation. In the case of Durs and the CVI, of course, both the Minister responsible for finance and the Secretary-General are responsible for the conduct in this area. This is how they decided together, of course, to inform the government that in the case of Dursa a call was made and to try to get a new director. Unfortunately, despite the high or high attractiveness of such jobs, it has shown below that very few experts who are ready to take Durs and are still drawing this call, and I very much hope that we will get a new director of Durs soon, and there is no doubt. In the case of the Centre, the Government of Informatics is more complicated and the Secretary-General has made more clear and I propose that further, because it is a matter of having the Director of the CVI released before the report and this request of the Court of Auditors as an official and therefore appointed as a VD and thus received the status of a staff member and when this report came in, the Secretary-General could only initiate a disciplinary procedure in accordance with the Law on Public Servants, that is to say that the Disciplinary Commission has formed and that the Disciplinary Board has become operational since it was not possible without a further government in the case of a staff member. In addition, I would like to say that a criminal conviction has been made in this case, which you have cited, and has been rejected, and I have this document from the prosecution, so that in this case the procedure is ongoing and, of course, it can be explained in very detail by the Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u36	Would you like to be complemented by the Secretary-General, Prime Minister? Please, Secretary General.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u37	Yes, thank you very much. I'd start right here where the president ended up. In fact, it is necessary to know that it is often manipulated and, unfortunately, sometimes I feel that at extraordinary meetings, that, unfortunately, the National Assembly is also changing in exactly the opposite of what Mr Bayuk called the rule of law. Many times people are condemned in advance without being given any opportunity to defend themselves. I am convinced that in this case, when it came to the centre of the Government of Informatics and the specific responsible person of Mr Marin Selic, that she was wronged, in my opinion, he was also mistakenly confused in some way in public with an unwarranted complaint and therefore rejected. This also gave rise to a key reason that would even suggest a possible solution so that the government could, of course, take action in this case. I can see today that the Government's IT centre is probably one of the most exemplary services in terms of public procurement. After all, this is proved to me by the Court of Auditors only, which is precisely the Center of the Government for Informatics, empowering me to carry out public procurements for the Court of Auditors. I can say that out of the 10 billion public contracts that have been made in the last two years, in just one case there has been a successful review, and all others have been rejected. I can also say this, time has shown that those findings that the Court of Auditors had made at the time were wrong, the Court of Auditors was wrong here and, of course, the government did exactly what it had to do in accordance with the rules in force. As regards the procedure for appointing a new Director, it is also open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u38	Okay. Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Additional question. Complementary. Your answers are simple, Mr President, usually, to most of my questions, a deliberate mix of communication and misleading to the public. We would be credible in our answers if we told the following truth. That the Court of Auditors included a contract with AStec in a random sample of the contracts of the Government Information Centre. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control, at which we considered the Court of Auditors' report, the representative of the Court of Auditors, who was responsible for the revision of the Information Technology Centre, added information that had not been recorded in the report that we discussed, namely, a magnetogram: "I would like to say that AStec consists of people who were employed in the Information Technology Centre, that no invitation to tender has been issued since 1995. The contract was expanding, the Seanex added, the content of the contract was spreading. An annex was also added which did not relate to the contract itself. The invitation to tender in 2002 was made absolutely too late because, during all this time, from 1995 to 2002, this company is in fact creating a semi-manufactured situation." However, the Prime Minister of the Information Centre continues to carry out his previous work with your support. Perhaps it is because it serves others, in particular the client interests of the Liberal Democracy and the United Kingdom, in the implementation of public contracts. The President of the tax administration also continues to perform his duties. Perhaps because it is reliable and still does not come to mind, for example, to order the inspection of the profit tax in Telekom and its subsidiaries and to ensure a consistent verification of the commercially unnecessary costs, thereby increasing profit and tax base and on this basis the revenue of the State budget on profit tax and on the basis of major dividends to the State as the majority owners of Telekom. Is it less obvious, Mr President, that for the Liberal Democracy and the United List, anything more important than the equality of taxpayers before the law and transparency in the field of public finances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u40	Do you want to add something to the answer? Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u41	So in this exposition, you have now given a whole bunch of readings, which are, of course, the characteristic of your programming approach. So you took one case out of all the cases. As previously stated, a review of all transactions has been carried out. In one case, an irregularity was found. In this case, when an irregularity was established, it was also required that the irregularity be corrected and no one said so. In any other case, in any other case, this has not been established and you have concluded from this out that the CVI is working to be, I don't know, for two parties and so on. Perhaps this is the way and logic of your thinking, but all documents relating to all public procurements carried out by the Government's IT Centre are public. All documents are available to you. Therefore, if in any of these cases you find such irregularities or any revision, it is clear that a criminal complaint would be necessary and prosecution would be necessary. In one case, in the Court of Auditors, they even decided to press charges, and the prosecution rejected this indictment, and now you're standing up to the police, the prosecution, and you're the judge. From politics, you've turned into a judge. And that's what I find unacceptable. We have the institutions that have ruled in this case. We have institutions that are also responsible for imposing sanctions and it is right to leave this to institutions and not individual politicians, and you are putting yourself above institutions and that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u42	There's no controversy, Dr. Bayuk, just a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u43	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I propose a debate on this question and the answer. Mr. President! I'm not a judge. The Court of Auditors carried out the audit and reviewed the information centre of the Government on the basis of the response report and made the complaint clear on the basis of this report. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u44	Dr. Bayuk's colleague! Just a procedural proposal. Dr. Bayuk's colleague!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u45	that it is absolutely necessary and you have been asked by the government to resolve this person because she lied to you. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u46	Dr. Bayuk's colleague!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u47	These are the facts. I wasn't the judge, the Court of Auditors was the judge. But you have proposed this same President of the Court of Auditors to the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u48	You don't have a word for it!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u49	So, always conspiring and accusing us, but when the government actually didn't do it for a year, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u50	Comrade Bayuk!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u51	I demand a debate! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u52	Comrade Bajuk, you have no right to controversy. That's what I warned you about at the beginning. The rules of procedure are quite clear here. You have only the right to make a business proposal to address the Prime Minister's response to your question. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We will now go to the parliamentary questions raised at the 43rd meeting of the assembly. Reply by Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr to questions from colleague Tsukati, colleague of Puksic, colleague of Brejc. Let's go in one order. Does colleague Tsukati want to repeat the short question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u53	I will repeat very briefly the question I raised at the previous sitting. It's a sale of Trnovo Hospital and a purchase of premises in Skytičnik. An old matter which, at the time of the interpolation and the very extensive speeches of Minister Kebra, was not answered. Since this is an example of State property management, let me repeat the following question, concerning Trnovo Hospital. In accordance with the Government Regulation on the procedures for the sale of state property, a programme for the sale of Trnovo hospital should be adopted in advance, namely a programme that clearly defines the method of sale, the right method, which is the most effective, most prudent for the owner, that is the country. As we are aware, this programme was not available and Trnovo hospital was not sold on public auctions, on public offerings, sold in a way that would be impossible to cope with more than in the way that it was sold somehow under the table, quietly, in secret. And the premises in Skytičnik were purchased without the documentation required in the event of purchase of the property by a government regulation on the production of public procurement programmes. This Regulation states that the investment documentation to be drawn up in advance contains all the necessary elements and calculations, so that it is possible to assess the financial, market, economic and other consequences of the investment decision on a comprehensive basis. This documentation, according to our information, has not been made, this investment documentation has not been made because I am sure that if it were made, it would be found that this is a very reckless purchase, that it is a waste of state property or budgetary resources through the window. And the question was about these two questions: Were these regulations respected? Were the documents made, and if so, when and by whom?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u54	Please, Minister Dr. Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u55	Thank you very much. In accordance with the regulation you stated, this is a regulation on sales procedures and other forms of state-owned possession, it is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for the conduct of the sale and replacement procedures of the state-owned property and the Minister responsible for the management of the property or the real estate. In that case, the sale and replacement of property was, as you know, property in the management of the Ministry of Health. Since the Ministry of Finance has not participated in those procedures, I cannot answer the question raised. We have therefore resigned your question to the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health will answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u56	Please, colleague Tsukati, supplement the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u57	In the case of the purchase of the Skytičnik - well, it was 191 million - this purchase was not in the government's purchase and sale plan nor in any clinical centre's plans or documents. No one has ever, according to our data, approved this purchase previously and planned the Ministry of Finance to order a budget inspection, according to our data, that this matter has been examined. But all she found was some procedural errors. I wonder, then, who is the Ombudsman, the responsible custodian in this country, if not the Ministry of Finance, and if in this case you refer to the fact that you did not participate in the procedure. If so, it may happen tomorrow, given that there is no clinical centre sale in any document, that the Minister of Health will sell the clinical centre tomorrow and buy a hotel in Hawaii for the benefit of the Ministry of Health. Are you also going to say that the Ministry of Finance has not participated in this business and has nothing to do with it? If so, Mr. Secretary, then it is sad, not only for your ministry or not for the government, but for our entire country. If it can act in this manner with State property, as the Minister of Health has done and no one has admitted or charged such a procedure, the government has also given a positive opinion on his defence in the event of interpretation. Thank you very much. I don't really need an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u58	Okay. Then the Minister of Finance will answer the question of Comrade Puksic. Please. You are aware that the absence of Comrade Puksic is no reason not to answer that question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u59	The question of Member Puksic regarding the protection of state property in the privatisation process in connection with the conclusion of the Slovenian Development Company's work is still within the competence of the Ministry of Economy, but I requested that a comprehensive response be drawn up in cooperation with the Slovenian Development Society in liquidation. I must point out that this property is not subject to the Public Finance Act and is subject to its adoption by law. The supervision of this financial asset does not therefore fall within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. I agree, however, that it is extremely important for the country. Therefore, at the Ministry of Finance, we have prepared a detailed written reply, which you have already received, which we have already sent. I will present only the essential findings below. During the period from 1.5.1998 when the law on the closure of the ownership and privatisation of legal persons owned by the Slovenian Development Company entered into force, the Slovenian Development Company reported every three months to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the performance of the tasks it has under the Act. The last report on the performance of the tasks following the state of 31.12.2003 was sent to the National Assembly on 2.3.2004. In accordance with the content and purpose of the law, the Slovenian Development Company, following its entry into force with the Ombudsman, has concluded an agreement on the procedure for lodging claims concerning damage to social capital or property established on the basis of the audit reports of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the revision of the company’s property transformation. With regard to the information on Smelt Intack, I would like only to point out that the data provided indicates that the injury occurred and that all the contested acts were committed on the basis of Gio and Smelt Internacional d.d. Against Smelt International d.d. An action to remedy the injury has been brought, but the epilogue has not been brought because a bankruptcy procedure has been instituted against Smelt International. In view of the fact that the main split of the bankruptcy mass has not yet been carried out, it is not possible to predict the percentage of the bankruptcy payments. The provision for the adoption of the law on the transfer of powers, rights and obligations of the Slovenian Development Company and the termination of the Slovenian Agency for Restructuring and Privatisation of all these powers, rights and obligations conferred by the Slovenian Development Society on the DSU, the consulting and management company, d.o.o., which will continue all procedures, both legal and asset identification procedures, which were not taken into account in the opening balance sheet, as from the date of the entry into force of the law. The DSU will also quarterly report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the performance of all the tasks it has under the law on the completion of ownership. The DSU will continue to cooperate with the public defender in the proceedings for the lodging of applications, as well as to address its costs in relation to these claims.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u60	Now you will answer the question of Comrade Brejc. Does my colleague Brace want to make an opening statement? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. In Slovenia, as many as 74% of the entrepreneurs questioned think that financial non-discipline is their biggest problem or the biggest problem of the Slovenian economy, so I asked you for the last time or asked the Minister of Finance what the Ministry of Finance or the Government will do to improve payment discipline when the contracting authority or the payer is part of it and what measures the Ministry of Finance or the government will prepare to deal with this pressing problem in Slovenia. Today, an hour or two ago, I received an answer and there is nothing really clear about what I asked. In this reply, you say that by the end of 2003, there had been virtually no outstanding obligations on the part of the State, that this measure had made an important contribution to further reducing the overall delays in payments, that the results of a specific project which examines payment discipline show that payment discipline has been gradually improving over the last two years in Slovenia, then you advised me to look at the AJPES website. At that time I looked at it and, of course, the conclusion here is completely different from what you say in your letter. Indeed, the average daily amount of outstanding liabilities reached was 15 billion a day in January and 19 billion in April, according to about 25% more than in January, was April. If we look at how many of these entities there were, these are legal persons with mature outstanding obligations, we see that there were such entities that have a serious problem with payment non-discipline, in January 2560 and in April 2914, let's say that this is 20%. What do I find out? That somehow I can't match your answer today with what you're writing in the letter itself and with the information that is available on the APES to anyone who wants to look at it. I know a number of very painful cases of people, entrepreneurs who do not get paid bills after 120 days, that businesses with 30 to 40 employees are waiting for money on average after the deadline set. Even up to 100, 130, 160 million are owed to state-owned companies, and in the worst position, subcontractors who are practically before bankruptcy have no money to work on. All of this does not go hand in hand with what we say all the time that entrepreneurship is meant to develop, creating conditions for the boom of entrepreneurship. So what exactly will the government do? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u62	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u63	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, we did not give you any data in this response, so let me give you some data from these studies that are based on a relatively large sample. It concerns 8,000 legal persons where, in fact, invoices paid in a given month are covered, unpaid invoices are not treated here. In fact, we have two systems, one system is run by the APES, it's a gyro account lock system for more than five days, so we told you that this is one data source. However, another source of data is this analysis, where only invoices are paid, and it is measured essentially how long it is from the time it should be paid to the day it is actually paid. Two types of data are kept, i.e. the average number of days late and the percentage of late payments. The data is as follows. I will give you the sum total for 2002, basically the average, pardon, 2002 and the average for 2003, and then the first three months in 2002, 2003 and 2004, for which we have data, this is January, February, March. First, data for the annual average. In 2002, the average number of days of late payments on this relatively large sample was 31 days and 61% of payments were delayed. In 2003, this figure was 28 days of average late payment and 58% of payments were delayed. That's for a year now. Then there's the first three months. We can take the year 2002 and 2004, when I took over the ministry. In 2002, an average of 32.3 days were delayed in the first three months and 61.7% were delayed. In 2004, however, 26 days of delays and 57% of payments were overdue. From this point of view, it was essential to know what my programme was, in fact, to pay all the obligations of the State in order not to block payments at the end of the year because, say, revenues are lower than planned. From this point of view, these two measures have been very helpful. In addition, the measure already adopted in 2002 was aided before I arrived for the Minister and it was a measure that reduced the country's day of payment of its obligation to 30 days. In doing so, he made a significant contribution. However, with regard to Apple's payments and blockades, a longer period should be seen. It makes sense to take 1999 as a basis when by 1999 the number of legal persons with mature outstanding obligations increased dramatically, when there were 9,312 and it was 96.9 almost 97 billion tolars. Of course, since then, this has declined significantly. It is true, however, that last year this trend has been upwards, which is also common when you have such recession movements as in 2003, especially in dealing with abroad. The days of late payments have been substantially reduced, including the percentage of those who are late, while the number of blocked giro accounts has indeed increased in 2003. I expect this to settle down by the end of 2004. This is what the first signs show, in the last month, April, this is the last data we received, which has already slightly reduced the number of blocked companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Completing the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u65	I'm sorry, but the information I have here and what you're telling is obviously different. So I would ask you: Mr. Minister, do you think that payment non-discipline in Slovenia is, what can I say, tolerable, moderate and individual entrepreneurs have no reason to despair? In fact, I would like to ask you: What should people who have done their work under the Dars contract do for many state-owned enterprises, or the state has property and where the budget is also concerned, when they have done their work on the basis of the contract concluded, but the state has not yet paid in 26 days or more, but the state has been in debt for more than 120 days. What should these people do in such a case? Because they come to me and ask me questions, and of course I'm different than asking you, I can't actually do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u67	I would say that, from the point of view of the state of payment, at least from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, they all run until the end of the year normally, of course, 30 days before the end of the year, payments should be announced and they continue to run until the end of the year. That's how there were virtually no transmissions here. The other thing is about legislation. Slovenia has gone even further in some areas of legislation than any other country with a financial transaction law, where the members of the Supervisory Board are in fact directly responsible for corporate solvency. These are, I'd say, unusual solutions. However, it was obviously necessary to accept something harsh in order to begin this trend of financial non-discipline. I would say, from the point of view of legislation, as we have examined, this is appropriate, in some areas even a little longer. From the point of view of spending the country, we are trying to provide a relatively short deadline and, of course, payment by the end of the year, so we also have a fiscal stabiliser, and at the same time, as you know, we can include in the law on budget implementation the possibility if there is more revenue to even cover more expenditure from pension insurance and interest, that we have indeed ensured that it is possible to pay all expenditure by the end of the year, so that you do not start with retention. From that point of view, I think we've done the best we can. Of course, on the other hand, it is a question of how legal opportunities are exploited on the part of companies as well and how they, when creditors and certain claims are not paid, how they deal with their debtors at the time. But here is always the question of who is in a subordinate and parental position, whether someone who is a small business is actually hoping to sue a larger company, which is its only customer or one of the few buyers, that is always the problem. This is why small and medium-sized enterprises are usually in the worst position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the questions now. These were questions posed to Minister Marble. Now the question will be answered by the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Slavko Gaber. Excuse me? Would you like to add? Comrade Sok first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I think I have to repeat the question again for the public, although I presented it here the last time, but there was no Minister Gabra at the time. Mr Gaber, in March I asked in this National Assembly what are you going to do about the increasingly frequent media records that talk about the state of Slovenian education. At the same time, in a written statement, I also highlighted the political affiliation of officials, those who are politically active. At that time, I said that most of them belonged to your political option or to an option that was close to you. You then responded very energeticly to my question and asked me to prove it or to apologize for it. Of course, I took this answer seriously and also with this computer, but now I find that after a political analysis of belonging, the politically active principals of primary and secondary schools, I am talking about officials, in fact most of those who have run in the past or in the last elections belong to your political option. While running for office is not bad, I could say that this is even desirable because it shows the national responsibility of these people, who are, of course, responsible for the upbringing of our children. Of course, it is worrying that these candidates are not normally on the list of right-wing political parties. For New Slovenia, she could say that she had practically such candidates as these or that she did not have them at all. The question that I would like to raise, of course, is: How do you answer this information? Does this situation in Slovenian democratic society seem unusual and worrying to you after more than ten years of introducing democratic change in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u70	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u71	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Member! I'm gonna have to disappoint you. In our ministry, we do not monitor the political affiliation of directors and directors. This is not the criteria by which these people would be appointed, neither in sacred schools nor in the ministry, where they eventually get their consent to be appointed. So I don't have that information myself. In our house, we are also not particularly concerned with whether there may be some who run on individual client lists more on the lists of a political party and a little less on the lists of others. I suppose they decide to make their own choices and decide if anyone offers them a candidate to run where they believe it is more appropriate for them. This society is democratic and it would be bad if someone forced them into any particular political definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u72	Completing the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u73	I understand, and I also welcome that you're not dealing with this. It would be a force wrong if you did. But my question went in a completely different direction. I wanted to hear what you were thinking as Secretary of State. Today, I have prepared somewhat differently for my question of the Member and have reviewed the list of elected, not those who have run for office - the list of elected, which has been published publicly and is a public document. And in fact, Mr. Minister, most of the LDS officials are on this list. I can give you that. Once again, this is nothing bad, and as a citizen in a democratic country, I am very upset that there are no candidates for other political parties among them. That really bothers me, and I'm worried. First of all, I wanted to hear what you were thinking. Once again, I welcome the fact that you don't do this as a minister. In addition, I ask you: Would you be willing to give up your consent as Minister in the appointment of principals? Should this be answered firmly, it could be worth amending the law and correcting it in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u74	Anything you'd like to add, Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u75	I can't make an opinion without looking at this list in particular. But I don't think I'd have anything special to say on the basis of that either. If one way or another were to wonder at the political definitions of people who are citizens of this country, this would in itself shed a very strange light on someone who has sworn to respect the regulation of this democratic state. Voting, running and loving are one of the foundations of this arrangement. So I'm going to thank you for this list, but from here on out, I'm probably not going to speculate on this subject. As for the issue of consent to appoint directors and directors, this is a longer discussion. What has produced the fact that there was even a transfer of consent to the country, i.e. to the Ministry, is the fact that in the 1990s many schools also remained without consent for months, some even a year, to appoint directors and directors. This was then in the hands of congregational councils or congregational structures. This debate is always open, but I think it would be wise to do it systematically, in some way for this responsible circle, perhaps also in this Parliament's committee for education and culture. The question that arises is, how would we deal with it? In the event that the State gives up its consent, it would itself have committed itself to the appointment of the saints. The shift to the local level seems to have tended to lead to an increase in additional tension in relation to those who are now very low, because the ministry is doing its business very formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u76	That is how we have dealt with the debt that ministers have had to the questions sent from previous meetings. Now we go in order, as announced, forward. I don't see the Minister for Foreign Affairs here now. Just for a moment, I don't think I have his apology, but I don't want to fool Parliament. Maybe he is, I think I even heard he was away, but I didn't see the excuses. I apologize for this indiscretion. He's probably gone for excusable reasons. My colleague Maria Pozsonec want to ask a question anyway? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Dr Dimitrij Rupl and the Minister of the Interior of the Council of Bohinca why they do not arrange working hours at border crossings with the Republic of Hungary? Both ministers point to each other as responsible for closing the border crossings there after a certain hour. I do not think it is justified that the border crossings between the two Member States of the European Union are closed after a certain time. I have in mind the border crossings of Pinke, Prosejekovci, Kobilje, Martinje and Chapinci. This is not related to the Schengen Agreement. This is merely a reflection of the good will and understanding of the needs of the inhabitants there. I forgive myself, I know I'm bored with this problem, but it will be my winter question by the end of the term if they don't settle this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u78	The Minister of the Interior will answer the question. However, let me explain that Dr Dimitrij Rupel has reported that, due to his absence in Brussels today, he cannot appear before the National Assembly. Please, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u79	Dear Member, honourable President, honourable Members! I thank you for this question, which has not been raised for the first time. I can answer the following. The issue of operating time you are asking about these five border crossings is not a matter of the EU acquis, but is a matter of bilateral agreements between the countries of Slovenia and Hungary. The fact that Slovenia became a member of the EU on 1 May does not affect this issue. As a result of this situation, Slovenia has coordinated negotiations with the Hungarian side over the past months on the operational time of border crossings in connection with the introduction of so-called unilateral border controls. This one-sided control, simplified control, is introduced at 1.5. at all Slovenian border crossings with Hungary. Negotiations on the opening time of border crossings or operating time have also been held in the negotiations on this Agreement. In the negotiations on this agreement, we have agreed with the Hungarian side on such operating times of the border crossings, including those five which you refer to as they are at present. This, in these cases, these five border crossings, is not a 24-hour operating time. This is what we have agreed with the Hungarian side so far to negotiate an agreement on unilateral control. This does not mean, of course, that we cannot accept negotiations or continue negotiations and that we can reach other conclusions in the negotiations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for these negotiations, and I believe that, in view of the initiatives of the local population, and also in view of your initiatives, it will propose to the Hungarian side to negotiate the renewal of these negotiations, or that there will be any other agreement to extend operating time to 24 hours. We know from the negotiations so far that, with regard to certain border crossings, the Hungarian side has an interest and has no interest in some. But your initiative is certainly the reason why we will renew these negotiations, so that the foreign ministry will restore them. If there is to be an amendment to this Interstate Agreement, it will be the obligation of the Slovenian State to decide again on operating time and in this regard also to provide the resources necessary for additional staff in this regard. The fact is that we are talking about the period until the end of 2006, the beginning of 2007 when the Schengen regime is introduced at the Slovenian-Croatian border and the current border of Slovenia will fall away with Hungary or no longer, there will be an internal border, so after that period these problems will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u80	Are you pleased with your colleague Poxons?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u81	Well, I'll ask you again next month.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u82	So you're happy for a month. Oh. I don't see the Master of Vision. I think he's gone. He apologized. It's Barovic's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u83	Thank you. The reason for the question sent, the anonymous letters and the various letters and accusations of municipal leadership Trbovlje, yes and why we support the co-incineration of waste in the Lafarge Trbolje cement plant. Facts. Lafarge cement ovens are supposed to burn, for the first time, animal fats and waste oils. I'm even supposed to pay for these two raw materials. Secondly, bone flour and plastic, for these two categories, she was to receive compensation. It's supposed to be the replacement of non-renewable resources, not the incineration. Similarly, Mr Minister knows this well, everywhere in all cement plants around the world. We did not want to raise this issue in the Slovenian National Party, but we said, we are satisfied with the duplicity of colleagues and colleagues who are unfortunately not here at this time. In the Liberal Democracy, there are some in the United List there, but there is nothing to blame for those who are present. You, gentlemen of the coalition, have sold all healthy companies to foreigners, with your wish and your legal support. That's right. The Slovenian national party claims for sure that it was always against the sale. Another time. You, some in the LDS, want me, the mayor and the Member of the Slovenian National Party in the National Assembly to prohibit what you have given and legally authorised by a decision. So you want to hunt poisonous snakes with foreign hands. Third time. You who are not have a two-faced policy when you give legal permission at the same time, but from your LDS and coalition types come accusations and objections against your decisions and against your Minister's decisions. And the worst part is that you do not respect - I will ask, these are the facts - I say: the reasons, the facts, the questions, you do not respect the work and the decision of your own minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u84	Question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u85	I have time, Mr. President. For your actions, colleagues and colleagues who are not there, you accuse others. My claims will now be confirmed by questions. Dear Mr. Secretary! Did you issue the Lafarga Depository in your ministry, the Cemetery for temporary co-incineration of waste? Another time. Is the decision in accordance with European directives? Third time. Were expert studies carried out at the time the decision was issued? And the fourth time. Has the decision been issued in agreement with the coalition political parties?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u86	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u87	Thank you very much for the questions, Mr Barovic. First answer to that last one. The Ministry shall issue decisions at its own discretion, not in cooperation or after consulting any political party or other interest group. Otherwise, this specific decision you are talking about has not even been issued at the Ministry, but at an environmental agency which is a body within the Ministry and is responsible for these matters. I didn't even know about it. But then this discussion about the public began and I went to look at this file and I found that the decision had been issued entirely in accordance with the rules and that it was nothing short of all. In particular, she was conscientiously made. But things were running around like this. About three years ago, the cement plant Trbovlje requested an environmental agency to allow it to co-incinerate certain types of waste to be used as energy substitutes for oil or coal. The Environment Agency responded to this role by requiring a new and new study on cement Trbovlje. They had to show what the current state of emissions was, what they had ensured was that this co-incineration would not result in additional emissions and so on. Once the application has been completed, after two years of complementarity, the Environment Agency has also decided. It decided by allowing the cement plant Trbovlje for a period from 22 September last year to 22 September this year the co-incineration of certain types of waste you mentioned - that is, animal fats, plastics and waste oils - but the agency did not allow co-incineration of car tires. This is because the stone used by cement Trbovlje is full of sulphur and is already too large to produce sulphur dioxide due to the collapse of this rock. And since the tyres contain sulphur, these sulphur dioxide emissions would, of course, increase with such additional co-incineration, so they were not allowed to do so. However, all other energy products belonging to the waste group were allowed because their co-incineration has been established and ensured that their co-incineration will in fact reduce the emissions of harmful substances in relation to the current energy, namely coal and lubricants. Such co-incineration is allowed provided that the emissions of waste are equal to or less than the current emissions; therefore, the state of the environment is only improved. Under this condition, this co-incineration is permitted. Cementary Trbovlje had to deliver a so-called zero state, i.e. a review of all emissions, had to install a monitoring that worked every second, every second possible insight into emissions. This applies to carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide and a variety of other emissions, while for dioxins, furans and heavy metals, occasional monitoring by an independent supervisor is envisaged, this is the Maribor Health Care Institute, at unexpected times when it wants to, so that this cement plant would not know in advance when the supervisor is coming. In short, with one sentence, this co-incineration is allowed and in accordance with all the regulations, after a thorough examination of the entire situation and only assuming that it can improve the state of the environment and in no way make it worse. This authorisation was granted on a temporary basis, not only for one year, until 22 September. Then it ceases to apply anyway, and that's why. [[End warning sign]] - if you'll excuse me, I'll just have a few more sentences - and that's because the cement plant has asked for such permission for the first time to see if they'll meet all the required criteria. They haven't started this co-incineration yet, even though time is running out, and it's going to be a year soon, and they're going to. If then for a time after September 22nd this year they will again apply for permission [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] for the co-incineration of some other energists, such a new role will, of course, be re-evaluated, following the procedure envisaged for this purpose. [[...]] There's a new one coming up. A new law on environmental protection entered into force 10 days ago, which provides for, in addition to all that has already been compulsory, the so-called public hearing at the decision-making stage, where the public has the opportunity to look at the draft decision already in preparation. If Cementary Trbovlje applies for co-incineration even after this September, this procedure will be conducted in a new way in accordance with not only the law on legal procedure, as was the previous decision, but also in accordance with this novelty of the law on environmental protection. Once again, I can only say that I guarantee that this co-incineration cannot in any way harm the inhabitants of Zasavje and that it is permitted under the condition that the missions are reduced to the environment. That is why I must say that I am surprised at all of this, sometimes I can also say, to the demagogic debates, which, at least in the facts and in the professionally established circumstances, do not have any basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u88	Completing the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u89	Fair enough, Mr. Secretary. The public now heard what she wanted. We're not the ones who politicized the case. In the municipality of Trbovlje, we want to respect the environmental and safety regulations, especially because most Slovenia is in the European Union. We want to maintain jobs, we want to continue with successful production, we want to have public transparency as well as you, as Minister, and we want to respect Slovenian and European decisions. If politicisation continues as it does, we have the right to request a referendum. I wonder: Will the municipal referendum pay for this coalition that politicizes the matter or the state? Second: Who will be responsible for such or other outcome of the referendum? Both decisions can cause environmental damage, and we are particularly concerned about 110 jobs that will be lost if the most expensive energy aliens who have come here do not replace them with the second most expensive element, which is the cost of labour.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u90	You want to add something to the minister, don't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u91	No, thank you. I understood that more than a comment. But once again, I want to say this. Regardless of political discussions, perhaps even regardless of what local referendums, the decision after administrative procedure is a decision that a public official must issue if the application is complete. He can't say, no, I don't like it or I don't personally agree with the proposer, so I'm not going to issue a decision. The Administrative Procedure Act obliges us if the application is complete, if all the annexes required in the application request are made, the simple administrative authority at the end of the application or the decision has to issue, even if this is not the case and this decision may be the decision to grant a co-incineration permit, if, of course, the applicant proves that he fulfils all the conditions required.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u92	Let's move on with the questions. This time, it's our colleague, Master Majda Potter. You're asking the Minister of Education and Sport a question? But he's not here right now. Please. Oh, he's coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. My time has begun to run before that, anyway. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I have received a substance for my current question to you in a letter from a non-governmental and non-profit professional pedagogical organisation dealing with human rights and peace education. Education on children’s or human rights has been introduced into schools, primary schools, and secondary schools. In implementation, however, we are faced with some problems. A number of subjects include learning about children’s or human rights. So, say, in kindergartens, they have the anticipated learning of tolerance to others. In the seventh and eighth classes of the nine-year-old compulsory subject of civic education and ethics, after 35 hours in each class, and in the ninth class optional subject of civil culture. Well, that's already a problem because it's one of 84 electives and it's implemented if it's enough applied for it or if there's enough qualified teachers for them. Secondary vocational education students have the content of civic culture, where human rights are also mentioned. In high school programmes too, compulsory subjects have a civil culture, and children and human rights are also dealt with in the subject of sociology and the optional subject of education for peace. Not only did the NGO draw attention to the problem, but we can read in the eighth report of the Ombudsman: "Rights have no special weight if children do not know them or are transmitted to them in an incomprehensible way." To date, the State has not done enough to fulfil the obligation imposed by Article 42 of the Convention. Although human rights learning is also part of school programmes, it is also carried out by some NGOs, but not sufficiently coordinated and planned. Therefore, the Ombudsman is also concerned with the promotion of human or child rights and a coordinated approach at national level is necessary. So I ask: Is the Ministry willing to cooperate more actively with NGOs and find the legal basis for such cooperation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u94	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u95	Dear Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry is already working with NGOs on this issue. You yourself have already touched some of the points on which this is a matter of cooperation. NGOs are also involved in educating teachers and teachers for human rights education, but I think that the core of your question measures a more comprehensive approach to this issue. Together, I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is taking such a more comprehensive approach. In this education, we will certainly include NGOs in this awareness of the importance of human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u96	Completing the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you. I am pleased with the answer, but I would like to ask you: Do you see any possibility of establishing a national centre for civic education, say, or any similar body that could then fill what we call a national human rights learning strategy dealing with the database of educators, experts and projects in this area? Do you, however, think that this is a matter that belongs more to the power of the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u98	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. I find it difficult to improvise an answer that is specific to this extent. However, let me say that I myself am skeptical of the fact that we are constantly establishing new and new institutions to deal with a particular issue or issue. I'm getting closer to the idea of intertwining different subjects who have to do their job. We already have a number of institutions that are responsible for education in this area, from the education institution, the teaching institute is working on it, and so are many, including NGOs involved. I think it would be wise to find funds that would make it possible to work more actively on all of this, and rather than establish a specific national institution, the means to spend on as many programmes as possible, which will produce a meaningful result in this area, the result that you expect and I expect from yourself. This does not mean that we will not eventually decide on any national institution, but for the time being, it would be difficult to agree on it without more serious consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. He now has the floor to ask the Minister of Transport, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. I would like to ask you a question to the Minister of Transport, Dr. Mark Pavlich. It is a question of maintenance and operation with bridges across major rivers in the Republic of Slovenia. The maintenance of these facilities in municipalities with several bridges under their jurisdiction is an almost insurmountable obstacle and a problem. The area from which I come, specifically the Municipality of Lithuania, stretches at a length of 25 km of the Sava River, where, of course, it is under its interference, the jurisdiction of four bridges. So the hanging bridge in Jevnica, the wooden concrete bridge, is durable, in Kresnica and then, of course, the wooden hanging bridge on Sava near Lithuania and the hanging eyebrow in Renkah. The actual issue is the maintenance of these infrastructure facilities at the moment, which is estimated at around 700 million expendable assets. In 2001, a framework study was prepared within the Transport Ministry to address this issue, also within the framework of the Prime Minister, but there were no concrete solutions from those studies. In fact, this is a growing issue, especially the problem and the fear of people in both areas of the Sava River, what will happen if there is no systemic approach to the resolution and maintenance of these facilities. In particular, the reconstruction of the main road has actually found some means of patching up at the so-called traffic in these parts, but in fact the citizens in this area are afraid because there will be a possibility of re-closing the Kresnica bridge again in a short time, and the bridge in Jevnica is also problematic. You [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The bridges were also launched by excessive traffic in the construction of the Ribče-Litti main road, so Mr Minister, I ask you: Does the State or the Ministry have a systematic approach to solving this problem in the plan, too, because the local community itself cannot solve it? [[...]] Another problem is in the area of the Kresnica Bridge, where it is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The bridge at the moment, even within the framework of the basic assets of Kresnice Apna Industries, this company does not have the financial capacity to repair this bridge. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u102	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u103	Mr President, honourable Members, as far as you are concerned, you are still here. Mr. Rokavec, the answer could be very simple. Your question is in place and we are actually thinking about it. He mentions the great legal dilemma, namely, who controls the overseers, "quis Custodet Custodes". Why? In fact, bridges along with municipal roads fall under the jurisdiction of the municipalities. It is true, however, that our ministry has adopted a special regulation on the maintenance and maintenance of public roads, including bridges, which, inter alia, stipulates that this maintenance including bridges is controlled by the congregation. At the same time, he instructs the Transport Inspectorate to supervise the congregation’s quality of control. As my colleagues tell me, this kind of surveillance has not been carried out, so I intend to call the chairman for the report first thing tomorrow. And only on the basis of these findings and reviews that will be carried out - that is, I am talking about bridges for the entire territory of Slovenia, not only for your municipality - will we be able to determine how much really needs to be done and how much these interventions would cost. Of course we're back in finance. And Tuba recalled the law on local self-government governing the maintenance and regulation of local public roads and public roads, which is one of the main tasks of the municipalities, and for these tasks funds are provided under the law on the financing of municipalities. Now, there is a criterion that is not necessarily the best, i.e. the criteria for the length of roads, but not the length of bridges that are problematic. If the results of the review of all bridges show that there is a need to invest so much money in the reconstruction of these bridges that the municipalities obviously cannot cover them with their funds - and this, I believe also applies to your municipality - then we must seek a solution within the framework of the changes in the criteria set out in that law, namely the law on the financing of municipalities, which is clearly within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. I hope you're satisfied with my answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u104	Are you or aren't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u105	If I just make a comment. I am generally satisfied with the answer, of course, because you have expressed concern for the real resolution of this issue, which is the most acute and affected local environment where they encounter more of these objects. However, because we have more than clear ahead of us that we probably will not have a law on the financing of municipalities in this mandate, because there is no proposal either, and I am afraid that there will be any damage at this time, but an urgent solution will have to be made. And here I would ask for your help, of course, within the scope of the possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u106	Would you like to add something? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. My colleague Vnučec will now ask a question to Minister Dimovski. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u107	I'm also going to ask Dr. Marble the same question. So I'd just like to ask both of you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u108	I don't have an open second question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u109	It's announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u110	Yeah?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u111	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u112	Just a minute! Well, first of all, to Minister Dimowski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u113	First of all, I have a question for the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on this list, so there will be no misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u114	Yeah, you're right. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u115	Thank you. You're going to take my time from the start, aren't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u116	I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u117	The tobacco problem, the dismissal of workers at the Tobacco Factory, you both probably know it very well. The Prime Minister himself has taken part in solving this problem. This is just one of those negative things about Slovenia's entry into Europe, there are also such forgivenesss, because we know capital and the interest of profit does not choose how to survive as much as possible. Therefore, a case such as that of a very successful company, which is all through a successful business and, of course, not even a place of thought has occurred to workers, in fact, the first victims of this so-called globalisation and the relocation of capital and the search for cheap labour. The unions have been successful here, we can say, they have been beating out the monetary compensation that comes from or belongs to workers under our labour law and also from collective agreements. Of course, this compensation, however rich and fair it seemed, was of course not a long time for these workers, for the tobacco administration then decided to pay part of this compensation as a relief for the dismissal of workers and part as a compensation, within the framework of the surplus workers' programme. The fact that the problem is greater is that this part of the compensation is significantly greater than that part of the deduction. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: What impact does this division of this compensation have on the dismissal, compensation for taxation? I myself believe that these workers should receive this money in full, without any additional taxes, but not that they are not yet aware or afraid that they will in fact lose almost half through various taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u119	Thank you very much. On 24.3.2004, the Ministry of Finance took part in a working interview at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on the issue of labour rights of dismissed workers. On this basis, we also sent views to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on 25.3. concerning the tax treatment of discharges and compensations, which is your question. The likeness of the tax administration was also sent by Tobacco d.o.o., as indicated below. Pursuant to the first indent of Article 19(3) of the current Income Act, the personal income tax shall not be paid from the remuneration paid for the termination of the working relationship for operational reasons under the labour rules. In accordance with the rules on the fixing of discharges for the termination of a working relationship for operational reasons, for which no tax is paid on personal benefits and social security contributions, retirement shall be considered for business reasons if the conditions under the Labour Relations Act are met. The fourth paragraph of Article 109 of the Labour Relations Act lays down a limitation or maximum amount of retirement, a maximum of 10 times the base referred to in Article 109(1), unless otherwise specified by a collective agreement at the level of activity. Under this limit, the termination of the employment relationship for business reasons is exempted from the payment of the personal income tax and social security contributions. The compensation paid for the loss of a working relationship for business reasons shall be deemed to be in full such - compensation shall be deemed to be a total of other remuneration from the working relationship that is subject to the calculation and payment of social security contributions and the payment of the personal income tax as a deduction of the income.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u121	I also have a question for Minister Dimovks, and I would like to ask him. In view of this response, which I assumed was taxed, I ask the Minister of Labour: Isn't this some kind of indirect budget patch? For, in this context, active employment policies will be eligible for some social rights benefits through the Ministry of Labour. And: Do you not think that this money should already be provided in the budget, but not that, in fact, with this taxation, compensation is now paid to itself or will be financed. For we know that the students reached with some threat of amending the law on income, even though there was earlier a speech that nothing could be changed. Or would it not be something special for such a case, but it is probably the first, but we cannot say with certainty that it is the last one, we hope that it is the last one, but we cannot say that - for such exceptional cases there were also some special reliefs or some special cases which could also be considered a special tax relief for compensation. And given that we will now review the Income Law once again: Have you considered that the option would be to state in the Income Law that no compensation would be taxed, even for the reason I mentioned earlier?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u123	First, let me say that this problem is multilayered. One part has already been said by the Minister of Finance and, of course, in this part, the question you have now raised is the issue of compensation. But let me say that what is happening to people is important to us, especially what is happening to people. Therefore, since the projected relocation or liquidation of the company due to some external factors, due to the success of the company, with a high profit rate, we have approached the resolution of the so-called redundant workers and workers. During this period, we have had quite a few interviews on this subject, and in particular this part of solving this problem has included a local labour fund, because it was a large number of cases of people who had, say, a relatively lower level of education and, of course, this is also a factor that needs to be taken into account in possible employment and so on. That is why we have also joined the training processes and other programmes, motivational workshops and so on, where I hope we will be able to identify a positive situation over a certain period. As regards the issue of active employment policy, this is not directly related to the question of revenue or revenue from any of the addresses. Therefore, it is only necessary to say here that active employment policy programmes are adopted each year separately with the national action programme. And an active employment policy is an annex or addition to the so-called National Action Programme, which, as I have said several times in this House, is based on the European Employment Strategy. Well, we can't talk about any connection here, so with the means available this year - and these are 27% higher than they were in last year - all of these activities that I was talking about just now. In this respect, we also expect as many people as possible from this title to be employed through an active employment policy, through self-employment, because there has also been some self-employment at this time. So there's no direct connection. However, this is your last question worth considering, and at this point, unfortunately, I cannot give a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u124	Thank you very much. You wish to complete your answer, Mr. Vnutec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u125	Well, now I'm going to ask Dr. Dimovski the same question as Dr. Marble. In view of the fact that you yourself have already said that the deductions are not taxed, they are a small part of, say, some of the financial amounts that might be paid by the owners of the company in such cases. Then why does the state have to tax the difference because the cancellations, as you said, are limited? Then perhaps a higher amount of money won when workers and trade unions try to get as much retirement as possible for their workers, and why not - because if someone decides to shut down a very successful factory for business reasons, they should pay, especially if they are foreigners. Therefore, I would like to ask you: Why, Mr. Minister, have you not considered, or will you be thinking in this direction, so that, because of this limitation, you will be free of the exemption in such exceptional cases of compensation? Because here's the problem with compensation. These compensations are a major part of these monetary compensations. And as I said at the outset, those seemingly very successful negotiations, when we deduct taxes here, we find that this is some minimal difference in the interests of workers, which I have already said does not seem right. And if the unions have managed to choose from the owners of such companies, which for business reasons shut down such factories, why shouldn't this remain for the workers and why our country has to put its pot here and not leave it to the workers. And like I said, if possible, [[...]] [[End warning - incomprehensible]] to take this into account also as a special tax relief. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I'll be very clear here. On income, the debate was much longer than one year; on all details, including these details. The income is for me, except for the part where we committed ourselves to the students, closed and all reliefs, we have discussed all the arguments in the hours and hours of the debate, and I must say that I have opposed most of these reliefs and most of these arguments, which are also in this regard. This way, I do not see the possibility of anything other than what was promised opening the income. Everything else remains the way it is, and I think that this chapter should be closed in terms of Slovenia's public financial stability and not open up more questions that could "increas" public financial revenues. We will definitely need these in the next two years, where we have extraordinary - I stress - on the expenditure side. But you know what the reasons are. Thus, I do not see the possibility of any further relief than those who have been.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik will ask the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! There are more and more people who don't care what kind of environment they live in. I am also pleased to note that people want to be more and more informed, they want more and more quality information. Therefore, those who are not satisfied with our information receive this information themselves, are organized and obtained from foreign sources. Such a problem has recently been the construction of a number of base stations for mobile phones. These stations are built anywhere, in the immediate vicinity of residential settlements, as well as in the settlements themselves. In Velenje we know two such cases: the village of Črnov and the local community of Gorica. People are dissatisfied because they are poor or are not informed at all and have no impact on where and how many such base stations will be in their place or community where they live. People aren't aware of the danger of radiation. However, data have been found that many scientists have already pointed to the suspicion that low-frequency magnetic radiation is classified as a category of possible carcinogenic radiation. That is why I have also asked the Minister of Health in writing. Slovenia is party to Agenda 21, and we will also adopt the Aarhus Convention at this meeting, which is considered by the civil public to be the most important interlocutor in decision-making on environmental and human protection. That is why I am so sure that people, and on their behalf and the local community, must have the option of codecision: where, to what extent and to what extent the base stations will be set up in their community. Dear Minister! According to the law on the regulation of the premises, the congregations can also plan the use of space by providing for the construction of a residential settlement. I therefore wonder: Can the local community give its opinion in the process of granting a building permit to the provider of the base station of mobile telephone in an area where construction of a residential settlement is envisaged under the law on the regulation of the premises? And: To what extent does the Ministry take into account its opinion? And second. Can the public participate in this process, and what are its options for decision-making? And if you don't, why not?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Janez Digač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Kavticnik, including Mr Bojan Kontič, who came forward for the question a little later, asked a very similar question. And, of course, I will answer you as well as I hope that you will answer him in advance. I would like to say that the municipality, as a local community, appears in two roles in the construction process: as a co-operator as a party to the procedure. The municipality may act as a conditioner, co-rapporteur, an appellant only if it has a legal basis for this in its decision. Thus, the mere fact that a spatial implementing act governing an area of the establishment of the base station does not give the municipality the automatic right to issue any opinion on the construction of the base station. On the other hand, it must be said that the Ministry always recognises the status of a foreign participant in the issue of building permits to the municipality. So not the terms - or the consenting party, but the party. In an area of the municipality where an object is intended to be built, i.e. the base station of mobile telephony, this status ensures that the municipality participates in the process. The municipality shall have the opportunity to comment on this before the decision of the legal authority or to make comments or requests regarding the construction in question. However, the administrative authority must be defined in the explanation of the building permit to this end. So if he does not heed the opinion of the congregation, he must say why he did not heed it. However, the opposition of the municipality does not constitute so-called negative agreement and there is no obstacle to the issue of a building permit if the administrative authority finds that the municipality does not have the basis for such a negative opinion in existing regulations. However, as regards the issue of public participation, it should be said that the public is, of course, involved first and foremost in the adoption of a spatial act in a municipality through public hearing, through spatial conferences, and it is not intended to participate once again in the issuance of building permits, unless it concerns facilities with environmental impacts. The new Environmental Protection Act, which entered into force some ten days ago, provides that an investor of such an intended facility must obtain environmental agreement on the project documentation already. However, environmental consensus can only be obtained through prior public consultation. So this means that in the future, as has already been done in the process of issuing a building permit, this will automatically ensure the participation of the interested public. The public concerned has the opportunity to participate, that is to say, the newly adopted new law on environmental protection, including a non-governmental organisation with the status of a non-governmental organisation, or an organisation acting in the public interest. But this status is obtained by a decision of the Ministry. Thus, we believe that the entire Aarhus Convention, which regulates access to environmental information, is acceptable. I must say that in doing so, the first country in Europe has already brought environmental information into its legal order between all 25 members, both old and new, both of whom have introduced the Aarhus Convention on Access to Environmental Information. The Aarhus Convention is really only considered by Members in the form of ratification at this meeting of the National Assembly, but this is the convention that we have first established in our legislation, and we will now ratify it and thus we are really far ahead of all others. In short, the procedure is prescribed, regulated and both the municipality and the public concerned have the opportunity to express their opinion, not at any time, of course, but at certain stages of this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. However, in view of the numerous complaints made by citizens, or more concerned by citizens, it is worth considering that these base stations would not be built by just a variety of operators, because we know that we have different operators and then each builds its base station in a certain area. Would it not make sense to think about making these base stations together in a area where there would be less impact on life and the environment where people live? Otherwise, I would appeal to the Ministry and to all those who build these base stations to inform people more beforehand how these stations will affect, of course, how they can affect healthy people.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like another word? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Mr Aloyz Sok, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will be asked the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u135	Honourable President, Honourable Minister and Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues. I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Dr Milan Pogačnik. Even earlier, I would like to point out that, in fact, what he has announced on the Committee, he has made one of the predictions; namely, that the review of the BSE is now a new one in Slovenia for 30 months, and what we have repeatedly warned Members, our proposals have not been successful. But I would like to ask you, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the following. If I have understood correctly in Thursday's Reflections when you said that in surrender, the agricultural ministry's handovers at the agriculture ministry had to cover 6 billion dollars this year's budget for 2003 and that there was still an additional 1.8 billion to cover the costs or last year's damage caused by drought; therefore, together, at this point in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food - if I understand correctly - there were 7.8 billion Slovenian Tolars. In addition, you said that it would be necessary to make an internal transfer to the Ministry and that you would meet with the Ministry of Finance as soon as possible. So, the question that comes from this is, if I understand what you said on TV correctly: Can the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition, as a result of this deficit, come to the problem of paying subsidies? Or in general: Can I explain how this ministry could have happened? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u136	Minister, Dr. Milan Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Member, for the question. Indeed, at the Reflections, I also answered the question of how the sale took place with certain numbers. The sale took place at the Ministry for a long time, for 14 days, it was very difficult and we focused in particular on the area of finance and business, especially because it was already familiar with certain data - before this function was assumed - that things could actually be questionable. Well, the question is right, not about the numbers. In total, after this sale, which was only made ten days ago - I think it was April 28th, 14 days ago - is 6 billion 848 million, including the sum needed for the final payment of the drought for last year. Therefore, if we wanted the costs identified to be shared, we should have found that some of the costs were actually due to obligations that had arisen and simply could not be planned. So you've rightly found that there's a billion 633 million, in fact, that there's so little money to pay for the damage we've found from the drought. There were 5,000 deposits more than at the beginning, and this sum, of course, went up slightly over 8 billion, together, is actually 7 billion 300 plus a billion 600 needed to pay the allocations of 8% in terms of drought. So there's a billion 600 on dry land, but we should normally get that out of the reserves. Furthermore, on May 1st - I would say at all that the ministry has been very intensively prepared to meet the conditions of entry and a little less the Ministry is prepared for this period of accession, if I may say so. So, export subsidies, exports were much higher before 1 May. There was a desire to save stocks and therefore, in the area of export subsidies, there was a shortage of billions of $28 million - due to increased exports prior to that period prior to entry. These are, in fact, costs that could not be predicted in some way or very difficult to predict. This is what I am talking about, I am talking about assessing the necessary additional resources for each purpose, so that the ministry, as has been said, can function normally in 2004. Furthermore, some of the costs stem from obligations arising after entry, as well as from entry, we should know little about this. That seems to me to have thought too little, I reiterate, the period after entry. Thus, for example, European inspections have laid down various additional identification programmes, such as "residences", in the area of phytosanitary management, and in the field of veterinary administration. And these vet moorings also reach a number of 135 million, while in the field of fitness, 80 million. These things just weren't planned. That's part of the cost. Additional costs also arise as a result of the ill-planned consequences of entry in the area of ministry equipment and in particular in the area of computer software equipment. Thus, of course, there is a shortage in the field of the Agency, which needs to be addressed and which reaches costs of up to 148 million, then an additional 20 new jobs are approved because it is again 56 million and so on. Some things are affecting, and that seems most problematic to me, in the field. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] when the funds from 2004 are spent on the payment of costs, services and payments, including direct payments, of the 2003 elections. [[...]] That is how the rural development programme is missing or already used in the 2004 budget for payments from 2003 of about a billion 500 million. The same goes for you. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in direct payments of 500 million, there is the same shortage in preventive health care of 589 million. [[...]] These are all the facts I have encountered, but I am obliged to point out that I am not talking about other minor things. Let's say the Kobile Lipica, for example, the Jabla experimental estate, but let's say there's no means to rebuild the orchards in 2004, because somehow they predicted [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that it will come from certain European funds, but not all the conditions are met and so on. [[...]] In short, it's a very serious situation. I'm just grateful for that. Undoubtedly, immediately after this finding, we approached the attempt to rehabilitate this one, these are large numbers. This cannot be resolved within the Ministry. But somehow we wanted to set priorities. Undoubtedly, the priorities of all those content related to direct recovery related to compliance related to the fulfilment of the conditions for smooth trade and trade in animals, animal feed, raw materials and waste are priorities. All of this is gonna happen. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u138	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u139	It's all right. [[...]] While you're at it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u140	Mr Minister, your time is up, I think Mr Sok will ask a supplementary question, and I think you can finish it. Then the minister has two more minutes at his disposal to complete the response. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u141	Mr Sok has asked me a difficult question, and I am obliged to give an honest answer. However, this is about giving priority, of course, to European programmes everywhere, which is linked to direct payments. Of course, some things we will try to resolve with this traditional method of redistribution, but I am not very excited about this, but certain things will have to be dealt with within the framework of government services, especially with the Minister of Finance and, of course, with others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The Minister without a department responsible for regional development will raise Mr Jože Tanko's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to everyone! First of all, I must say that I am surprised that the government coalition has put to the vote a "banana" on the agenda for a law relating to one of the key areas. This is the area of regional policy and this is the area of national and transnational policies. And the issue of regional development is, in fact, one of the key issues of all, including developed economies. For all are aware that instruments must be provided, incentives and grips to eliminate great differences. For because of these differences there is also great tension, as well as hard-to-repar consequences. Years ago, in Slovenia and within the municipalities, we had a very detailed definition of areas that were among the less developed, under developmental threats and for which, of course, there were also very clear criteria for co-financing projects and mitigating imbalances. I think that was relatively successful. Project co-financing is currently expected to take place according to the criteria, but the practice is quite different and there is a wide distribution of funds on the basis of agreements, so to speak, beyond the criteria. The new law, which is not in the procedure of these envisaged criteria, is not at all clear whether this allocation is between medium-sized regions and regions with development problems or under-average. And the new law, which is in the process, will even more so than before allow successful regions to acquire development resources under the same conditions as unsuccessful ones. This law is intended primarily for the transfer of development money to developed areas, and the title of the law is therefore misleading. This makes them particularly problematic areas that deviate negatively from the national average by all criteria, for example, according to the population index, after unemployment, after migration and so on. This is, of course, the area of Ribnica and Kočevje, which was a closed area. I would like to ask: What is the criteria for establishing regions on which basis? Under what key will the funds be shared between the over-average and under-average developed regions? What is assumed to be so highly negative? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] An environment like the pond-cotch area? [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Minister, Mrs. Zdenka Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u145	Thank you very much for this question to the Member and to all very nice greetings in this Chamber. I hope that, as we have moved the new proposal for a coherent regional development law today, the story of it has not been completed and we will continue it in June. Now for the answer to the question of the Member. Some European principles of approach, promoting coherent regional development based on programming, partnership, co-financing, cross-border regional policy cooperation, have already been established by law, the now applicable law on the promotion of coherent regional development in 1999. Unfortunately, also through the report we adopted last year and also proposed to the National Assembly, we have found that it is partly true that the provisions of this law are not being implemented in full and as effectively as we would like. On this basis, we have drawn up a new law that defines even more clearly the structures that will help these principles in the existing law actually to be implemented. I have pointed out to you several times in the general debates on this law the provisions of this new law, which say that the law between the so-called development region by the regional development council and the country on the one hand and the municipalities on the other, establishes a partnership; a relationship similar to today's, which Slovenia establishes to the European Commission. What does that mean? This means that the region is programmed by the country and that the country, on the basis of the Development Hazard Index for each area, lays down indicative means for each programming period, which will be available to the region in order, of course, to encourage those development factors, those investments in its area which, of course, can strengthen coherent regional development. Of course, it is impossible to expect that all development resources should be allocated only to so-called regions A and B and only, for example, to less developed areas within these areas, because we need to be aware that the whole of Slovenia is on the index or at the level of development 69 per cent, if we consider only the old members of the European Union, and if we also take the new members into account, at the average level of development, about 75%. This means that all areas need certain incentives, but we wanted to bring more resources by means of this law where they are needed more and thus to implement programmes and approaches quite as well as the European Union knows. As I said, the Development Hazard Index will be the one who, if adopted, as proposed, will lay the basis for indicative allocation of funds in the period 2007-2013. I am talking about all the development funds, not just the so-called direct regional incentives. Of course, we know that we need a critical mass for development on the one hand, so we have also created the regions in line with the comments and suggestions from the environment themselves on the one and the other, but really at the lower limit of the bearable level, how big a region should be so that it can be formed as a development region. However, as we know that within these development areas there are also significant differences - and here you are right, honourable Member, that, of course, for the Costa Rica and certain other border areas, it is considered that they have their own specificity - we have also provided in the law for the creation of so-called sub-regions or functional rounded areas, for which development will be monitored separately and for which specific regional development policy measures will be targeted. With this we want to replace what has been lost in part also because it has not actually continued to do so, I will say, an approach to promoting the development of demographically endangered areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Tanko, please choose a supplementary question or supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u147	Thanks again. See, the fact is that with the formation of regions it is possible to redistribute the weight of individual criteria and transform areas. For example, if I tell you from the data - for example, the ageing index for Slovenia is 100.8 for Kočevje 102.4, for Osilnica 300, Kostel 290, Loški brook 122, Sodražica 118. This means that this area is strongly subject to eviction, that it is not a young population and that it is all fleeing these areas. And this area, which is relatively large, say, about 800 square kilometers, you've connected an extremely successful valley region, a new urban area. All these development indicators are lost on average in the lower region, where, say, the ageing index is 87.1. It doesn't have any effect. However, the fact is that this area has been closed for 50 years, that it has not been invested in this area, that it has had special status and that obviously with this redistribution, joining the developmentally successful new township, this area has nothing to expect, no compensation for 50 years of non-investment in this area. And it is not clear to me how we could ensure that this area is equal. In short, I think that in this case technology is falling apart from problems in several smaller units and connecting to successful areas. This will give the area of the above-average indicator and, in short, the co-financing resources will be extremely poor. However, I must say that you did not directly answer any of the questions. First of all: criteria for the creation of regions, what will be the key to the allocation of funds for these areas of the over-average, unaverage regions? Then let me ask you another question: From what sources will this be filled? For if we take these complementary or indirect investments, there can also be a road program, a highway program, but this has little to do with investing in regional projects. And one more question. The separation criteria. You know, if municipalities can agree on each other, when - well, it's not a problem because it's also a minute before - because municipalities can agree on each other, that's what's said and prevailed over the population's humiliation, then it's perfectly clear that rich centers are picking up the rest of the money that would otherwise be earmarked for those gray foxes in this Slovenian area or rural area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u149	Thank you. So forward around the criteria for the creation of regions. In the new law, we came from the existing law, which defined 12 statistical regions in 1999. However, we have allowed that in those areas where this way of implementing development policy has been shown to be extremely impractical. This is mainly in the area of Podravja, where this region has not been able to adopt a common regional development programme; in the area of Savinjska, where it has been significantly stuck in its implementation, and in some other regions where the municipalities have already joined another region at the time of the implementation of this three-year period, we have allowed these municipalities to move. For South-Eastern Slovenia, where the law adopted in 1999 was true, we have also joined the Kočev-Fishing Area, and we have, of course, identified all the time, as well as providing both the Programme Council and indicators to measure where development incentives are directed, to form three separate development partnerships within this region, which are equally preparing and coordinating projects on them in the Programme Council of the Region. In fact, we wanted and took as a model how things needed to be transformed within the context of this law, based on the common desire of these municipalities and the general population. But it is true and here is probably the answer to your question, so far only direct incentives have been distributed after this key, which of course were not many. What we want to do with this law is, of course, that there will also be a greater part of the so-called indirect incentives, which, unlike the direct ones, are about 4 billion, and there are some 82 billion of them, and when we can also divide them by these locations according to the developmental hazard index, we believe that the picture will also change. How are these areas going to get funding now? It is precisely in this way that this law now foresees that within the development regions a specific sub-area, a sub-region with such statistical characteristics, on the basis of which it is possible and more meaningful, can then implement specific regional policy measures. We ourselves see that we can also find the right solutions for the nomadic fishing area in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Mr. Tanko, please. Madam Secretary, can you turn off the microphone, please? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u151	Thank you, for your word. I will not say that I am not satisfied with the answer, I think that you have answered correctly, could be much more precise, but given that the law was rejected at the previous meeting, that the law was withdrawn at this meeting, I think there is an opportunity for a special debate on the subject of regional development and I think that this would be very correct on the basis of all these different opinions and views on this extremely problematic area. I propose that the National Assembly also vote on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The proposal by Mr Jožet Tank to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a resource responsible for regional development will be decided by the State Assembly at the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Now, Mr Vojko Celigoj will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of this April, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, and the President of the Republic of Croatia, Stipe Mesić, opened a large and modern interstate road border crossing Jelsane. This transition is by the meaning and size of the third interstate border crossing with neighbouring Croatia. The border crossing includes modern facilities, which are necessary for such a border crossing, and at the same time represent a great deal of work, both by architectural and functional design. The facility can be a real honor to all of us. The border crossing allows for the exit and entry into the country in nine passenger vehicle columns and two freight lanes. The border crossing has 11 traffic lanes, which are already 100 metres out of the old imperial road with one single lane in each direction. Such a road runs up to 40 kilometers away Postojna and there, of course, to the highway. Thus, the inhabitants of this road have long been indignant about the noise of a column of vehicles, trucks, dust, shaking of the ground, road damage, and general danger. There are also restrictions on the type of cargo vehicles, as some working organisations are subject to additional damage. As far as I know, the planned construction of the highway on this section has moved to a later date, which is only for the next decade. I therefore ask the Minister of Transport, Mr Mark Pavliho: Is there any possibility, now that we are part of the EU, of an early approach to the construction of the highway, for the possible acquisition of other new funds from EU funds, to accelerate the construction of this highway? This is all the more important because the Croatian side is already intensively building road connections, and it has approached the new border crossing in Jelshan already a few kilometers away. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Mark Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Cheligoy. This question of yours, at first I was a little scared that you had abandoned me, because I understood that the question was addressed to the Minister of Transport, but anyway, probably "lapus lingue" Each solution, including this one, probably has its own better and worse edge. A better salary is the fact that the motorway or section you spoke about was placed or envisaged in the latest national highway construction programme, which you adopted at the end of February, for the first time. So, for the first time, the Ministry of Transport has shown an understanding of this issue and the need to resolve this problem. And once again, the continuation of this good news is that immediately after the adoption of the national programme, we have begun to prepare the project documentation and other professional bases necessary for the preparation of the initiative to begin the process of putting this section into space. We anticipate that we will be able to submit the initiative in early June to the competent ministry, namely the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, and thus, of course, ensure the early acquisition or adoption of the Local Plan Regulation. However, the worst part of this problem or solution is, of course, a timetable for providing the necessary funds from European funds. In fact, the Jelsane-Possible section will be able to be included in the reference framework for the Cohesion Fund for the next financial perspective, but from 2007 to 20013. And that's real, given the paperwork for this section. The main condition for candidateing these funds is, as we say, the Location Plan Regulation and, of course, the land acquired, the property acquired, the project and technical investment documentation produced and so on, as well as the provision of the shares or shares of the State's own financial resources. We will make sure that this regulation is adopted as soon as possible, that is, in the shortest possible time possible, but in the light of experience this will not be possible sooner than within three to four years, provided that all procedures are conducted optimally. In the case of complications that we can read, let us mention only, for example, highway sections past Radovljica or now around Trebnje, unfortunately this time may be even longer. I hope I have at least partially explained your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u156	Thank you very much. You're pleased. Mr Victory Jelinčič The nobles will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. My question will concern the selective treatment of citizens or non-nationals of the Republic of Slovenia in the Republic of Slovenia. As an example, I should point out the increasing violence committed by the Gypsies in Slovenia, both between themselves and the surrounding population. Lately, two dead in Murska Sobota in mutual accounts, shooting accounts, a whole bunch of wounded. Today, or yesterday, he was killed, says, by an officer with a gun at the Gypsies in Dolenjska. And what the Slovenian National Party has said several times about the problem and has pointed to a problem that our Minister is not a match for. The fact is, cops don't go to gypsy settlements, they don't have any sanctions, because cops are afraid of them, or they say, "it doesn't matter what we do, the damage is so small, but we can't hurt them." After Dolenjska Gypsies for a long time and for a wide variety of shoplifting and when a salesman comes to a police officer, the policeman asks her what the damage was, and when he says the damage was there about 15, 16 thousand, he says, "Oh, it's nothing," and they leave the matter alone. Five times a day after 15,000, I think it's as much as 75 000, or as far as I don't know, about - it's not that small, it's one salary, and there's a lot of people in Slovenia working for one salary or less. These people don't get hurt. And the police under your leadership, Mr. Minister, are hunting those who drive 5 kilometers an hour too fast, who are drinking a glass and then have to be sanctioned and taken away from him by driver's license, and I almost don't know where. Preferably, if anyone says a word, beat him up, and stuff like that. I would ask you: When do you intend to stop selecting treatment? And: When will you protect Slovenian citizens from these gypsy escalations? Above all: When do you intend to stop essentially collecting and filling the Treasury Ministry of the Interior with mandates? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u158	I give the floor to Dr. Rad Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The Member asked the following question: "I am referring to the Minister for Home Affairs the oral question of the selectivity of the treatment of individual offences, which is the priority order for the inclusion of matters in the hearing." There is no mention of the Roma issue in this question, not even in the word. If the Member had been so kind in the future and wished to answer questions on the Roma issue, I would have kindly asked him to state this in the question, otherwise I could only answer him: no selectivity is in the police regarding the treatment of individual offences, no selectivity as a principle, as a rule in the police, and there is no priority order in which matters are dealt with. The police have a duty to deal with all matters in the manner in which they have been dealt with, so the only order of business is the timetable. No rules on selection and no rules on any priority order, and also no neither positive nor negative discrimination. If, honourable Member, you find any rule, instruction, guidance, any legal act that would support the criteria of selectivity or the mechanisms of order, then you could discuss such a instruction, but you will not find it. Since I've been in charge, as you say, not of the police, but of this ministry, which is something else, such instructions as the Minister have not been issued, nor for this legal basis, nor has the police done so. While the police, as you know, are being led by the Director General of Police, I direct and supervise the police as Minister. And in my jurisdiction there are such acts, not acts of conduct. But, I repeat: neither the Roma population nor any other specific group is discriminated against, there is no selectivity, there is no separate treatment, there is no order of course, but I would be happy to evaluate an individual case if we would point to it, if we were to warn it, we will also do so if you present such cases in writing and through the report that we will require of the police, also let you know whether the police have done what is right in the present case. Until you mention such cases, of course, I can't even argue that it was right or that it was wrong. What 100,000 offenses, only crimes, are dealt with annually by the police, and you probably believe that I don't have them all in my head, but there are some 80,000 crimes, so that a case that may not even be real, you may have given it as an example, but if it's real, I can assure you that I can only investigate it if you give it to me in advance. I'm closing with an answer. We will be happy to tell you more about the Roma problem and the involvement of the police in solving such crime or security risks, but I can tell you right now that we have no different, discriminatory treatment and that the police, like in Roma settlements, are doing exactly the same in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u160	Thank you, Minister. Victory, Jelinčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Well, selectivity is, you can also look into it at the police station in New Town, where they'll tell you what's going on. Well, but since you already said it was an individual case, let's not make it about the gypsies. Then I'd ask you about your car accident. I think December 2001 or 2002 there, on the highway, was a little further from the secession for Unec. From the coast to Ljubljana, about ten o'clock at night. And when your BMW was supposed to hit some guy or your BMW was supposed to hit some car when you said you were hunting with some yellow mega who then "flies" off the road. One Ford with three young men and one girl hit your car from behind, and then it hurt pretty bad. Some wine came out of your trunk and so on. And the police or police first put your companion in the ambulance, who was supposed to be one of your close associates, took her - easier wounded - to the hospital, while, as for that girl who was being offered help by certain people, the cops just drove out those who offered help, if you, go away, don't ask questions about what was going to happen to you, disappear and similar things. And after all, I was talking to one of the witnesses to this event, and I was wondering if there was any selective treatment here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Mr Victory Jelinčič Noblemeniti, you may ask, in the second part, a wish for the Minister to complete the matter earlier, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You may request an additional reply. And this structure that you have now carried out has nothing to do with the question being asked. And please: the Roma community! In our country, he only has a name like that. Mr. Secretary, you don't have to answer the second part. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u163	I'd still be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u164	Complementing the answer, and your reply will not be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u165	Since these were charges against my personal account, allow me to answer a few sentences. It was not my accident, but it was a car accident involving a vehicle driven by a driver of the Ministry of the Interior. It wasn't about someone -- I don't know how you put it -- a co-worker as a companion, but it was about my wife. There was absolutely nothing different about this accident than any other accident. And even in this case, there was no selection or order of treatment, nor in other cases. As far as New Town is concerned, I'll ask around and see if there's anything on what you're saying. I am also prepared to inform you of this or to give you a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The Minister of Culture, who is excusedly absent today, will ask Mr Franz Čebulj a question from the Parliament and then please indicate whether you want a written answer or an oral one at the next meeting. Here you go, Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u167	Yes, thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to be answered in writing by the next parliamentary session, Mrs Culture Minister Andreja Richter, and, if possible, by the next parliamentary session. If I don't get a written answer, I'm obliged to ask the same question again in a month. This is as follows: On the basis of the list of approved monumental protection actions under the so-called cultural toll for 2004 and 2005, it has been found that for the Goran region with monuments with the exception of Škofje Loka, funds are granted only for the cod core of Kropa and for the Church of St. Loka in Praproča near Lukovica. Thus there is no provision for the continuation and completion of the initial works also for other monuments, which are most on the list for a monument of State importance such as: Adergas, Vlesovski Monastery; Small Castle in Kamnik, Sv. Take over Kamnik, Limbarska Gora, camp Ljubelj. Monuments of the State have been lost, while for some actions: Canomelje, the Clave has been granted as much as 100 million tolars. Madam Secretary, as I said, I'm asking you a question. Why has regional division not been taken more into account in the allocation of funds, if not sufficient for all actions? In such a division, Gorenjska remains completely at the back, which is worrying, because it is one and cultural heritage will undoubtedly be an important factor in our tourist offer as well? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u168	Thank you very much. So, the written answer to the next session. Mr Peter Levič will ask the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister! Slovenia became part of the European Natura 2000 network by entering the European Union. Protected areas that will be subject to special protection services, in particular restrictions on spatial development planning to preserve certain animal and plant species and habitat types, will cover as much as 35% of Slovenia's total surface area. We believe that the Natura 2000 project is a good project that will help preserve animal and plant diversity also for craftsmen and will contribute significantly to the conservation of endangered animal and plant species. Slovenia can boast of as many as 15,000 animal species and 6,000 plant species, a significant percentage of which are only endangered species. Prior to Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the government adopted a regulation on ecologically important areas and a regulation on specific protection areas which lay down the management of Natura 2000 areas. However, restrictions on the population will be considerable and will have consequences for development, settlement and life in these areas. Although in some municipalities 50 % of the territory is included in protected areas and includes intermediate areas, municipalities are not invited to participate in the discussion and preparation of this project. That's why I'm asking the Minister. There are no specific rules on the behaviour and behaviour of the area in the regulations, which in fact means that the adverse impact on the animals and plants of the protected area should be minimised. The duration of the protection procedures to be adapted to the animal’s life cycle is not defined and, of course, no compensation or compensation to the inhabitants for the intervention in question. However, the regulation provides for the Ministry to draw up a so-called management programme adopted by the Government. I wonder, when will this operational plan be ready? Will it contain specific rules, practices for residents with all time-definitions [[When farmers can eat grass and so on]] ? When will the government determine the amount of compensation or compensation for residents? Will interventions to sites protected by Natura 2000 provided for in the existing spatial plans be possible without additional checks and restrictions? In some cases, whole settlements are included in Natura 2000. Is it true that, in the case of interventions within the boundary of the boundary zone, the parts where the protection of the biotope must be complete and the parts which do not affect the living space of the organism that we are protecting? When will this more detailed definition of sites within Nature 2000 be carried out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u171	Thank you so much for asking. The identification of specific protection areas is an obligation under the so-called "birds" and so-called "habitative directives". This determination takes place after prior consideration in the congregations - does not hold, as you stated, that the congregations were not involved. I can say that we have received comments from 63 Slovene municipalities and their wishes, as far as possible, we have taken into account; I think there have been about 50 such cases where we have fully aligned ourselves, in a few more than ten cases we have only partially aligned ourselves. If an area is declared a special protection area, this does not mean, as it may have been mistaken to understand from your point of view, that there is a special regime - the regimes are laid down in parks, for example, the Triglav National Park Act provides for regimes on what can and should not be imposed in a specific area. In the case of Natura 2000, or in the case of the establishment of specific protection areas, this only means that if a new use or a new act is planned in that area, it may also be a forest-economic plan, a new plan, or a change in a spatial plan or something like that, in that case such an act should be fully judged with regard to its effects on a particular plant or animal species for which that special protection area is declared as such. That's all that means. This does not mean that, in short, I stress once again that a special regime is being introduced there. Well, these measures are in principle not costing, so those with land in the area of special protective measures will not receive any rent or anything like that, this is not foreseen. This specific assessment is therefore provided for in the new management acts or for interventions to that area. This will, of course, cost the country the most because, as the directive says, it will have to maintain "a favourable conservation situation". This means that it will also have to plan a certain use of space that will maintain the conservation status in such a way that the endangered plant or animal species for which an area has been declared can remain vital, in short, without jeopardising the existence of this population. And all of this will be set out in the management plans that you mentioned. These management plans, however, are acts that will arise next, I can say three, four, maybe five years. The management plans are something that the old EU Member States, without exception, are just now preparing, they don't have, and so are we, when we look and we want to copy from where and see how others have done it, we don't actually find any real patterns yet, because that's something that's just in the process of being created. However, the establishment of an area for a specific protection area within the Natura 2000 network means that certain desires in that area will no longer be feasible because such an intervention would prevent the maintenance of a favourable conservation status, as it is called by law, such an intervention is not allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I was running out of time before, so I'd like to ask you a few more questions. In fact, why was the Valovja Rebr area, namely wind power plants - Why was the Valovna Rebr area, where wind power plants were to be installed, excluded from Natura 2000? This is the area of the first protection category within the envisaged Regional Park Sneznik. However, it was also defined as a specific protection area within the Natura 2000 area. We know that there is a habitat of great beasts, bears, lynx and internationally protected birds. It is known that both the nature protection agency and the Slovenian Environment Agency were of the opinion that the construction of wind power plants there was not acceptable, and the Ministry of Environment and Space took into account only the opinion of the Milan Vidmar Institute, which deals mainly with the development of general energy and, of course, gave an opinion that there will be no damage in nature. How could the Institute, which specializes in energy systems, give its independent opinion on the potential threat of a bear, a lynx, a white-headed hawk, owls, goats and so on? And how can their opinion be more weighty than the respected institutions specifically called for such an assessment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u174	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u175	This is not a complementary question, but a completely new question, but nothing about it - I will try to answer it. First of all, I must say that, of course, in determining the area of specific protection areas, we must follow the professional criteria; therefore, whether or not there is a priority plant or animal species in an area. However, as far as this determination is concerned, the state has some room for manoeuvre. So they don't have to be 100 percent, so wherever there's an endangered plant or animal species, they automatically declare that area a special protection area, and that's enough, if it declares 80%. That's more than enough. If it declares 20% to 80%, this is subject to the European Commission's special opinion. In addition, the State may use more flexible criteria in determining this territory in cases where an area for the endangered plant or animal species exceeds more than 5% of its territory. In the case of large beasts, i.e. bears, lynx and wolves, the special protection areas that we have declared are significantly above 5% of the territory in Slovenia. As regards the opinion of the nature protection agency and the environmental agency, I have to say in particular that when reference was made to the presence of birds - especially birds - it referred to the available data at that time. Subsequent data prepared as a professional basis for determining specific protection areas showed a quite different picture, which, of course, allowed for an expert opinion not to be classified as special protection zones, of course taking into account the above-mentioned flexibility criteria available to the State. As for the decision on wind power plants, it was the decision of the congregation. As I said, we wanted to define as much as possible, without conflict with the municipalities or on the proposal of the municipalities, the areas of special protection that we had to define under the professional criteria or where we still had this room of manoeuvre under the professional criteria. The municipality of Illyrian Bistrica, I could say, demanded, in a uniform manner, the inclusion or the definition of that area for the area of wind power plants. In view of the adoption of the national energy programme, this, of course, made sense to us, and I must say that from your party, Mr Levič, an amendment to the national energy programme has come in order to establish 300 megawatts of wind power plants. I don't know where they would be if the problem was already with the 40 megawatts, which is the problem you just opened. But we opposed that amendment as a government because it was absolutely excessive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dr Jožef Bernik will ask the Minister of Finance the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, I have a very simple question for you, which is the quality of the various marriage proposals coming into Parliament and most of them are extremely complicated, long and unclear. I'm curious, it's said, I've been observing this for several years, that the marriage proposals from your ministry are the most underly prepared, as I would say. At least some of them. Thus, our legislative and legal service must draw up a number of comments from time to time and thus comment almost everyone else, if not everyone, Article. And it seems to me that this legislative service has a duty to do so, but, above all, it looks at, if you say, a misunderstanding or a disagreement with the constitution, not to repair some of the internal conflicts that these articles contain. So I want to know, who's making these laws? Who's looking into it? I've even heard once that your ministry, probably before your performance, sent laws to different lawyers outside the Ministry and that they were paid for it. Now I wonder: Does this practice still exist? How much does it cost? And: Why couldn’t the Ministry prepare this? It's mainly that your ministry wants to maintain some quality, and I think your associates should have told you that a long time ago. But if they are not to you, it would be good for you to signify that we will get laws that will be well prepared and thus save you and us time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u179	Thank you so much for asking. I have to say, you've put the thesis that the laws that my ministry is preparing are poorly prepared. I'm putting an antidote to your thesis that these laws are well prepared. Some of them are even great. I'll just give you two cases. Let us say that from all these laws, which were passed during my term in Parliament, which were 26, I would like to say that two of them, which are actually what you said, are extremely technical and one is demanding from a substantive point of view. And these are the Income Act, and the Tax Procedure Act. Now for the Income Act, if I remember correctly, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service in the Finance Committee itself said something similar - this was Mrs Andrea Kert - that this was an extremely well-prepared law. That's what we say on the board we were on. The second law, the Tax Procedure Act - this first has 153 articles, and as we know, its coordination was indeed one of the extremely difficult tasks. And if I look at this: there were virtually no comments. There were a few nomotechnics. With the tax procedure, which has 406 articles, the head, Tina Bitenc, of the legal and legislative service which has practically reviewed this law with four colleagues, has told us that he is well prepared, so extensive and demanding. There were virtually some nomotechnical comments and 5 substantive comments in this case. But with such a complicated law technically, I think it's more than permissible. Next thing you know, you're asking me who's making these laws. All of these 26 laws were made by 23 people. These 26 laws had 1,626 articles. Of course, this must be all harmonised and these 23 people are employed by the Ministry of Finance: two in the sector covering the budget, six in the financial system and fifteen in the tax system. No one, none of these laws, was given to work outside the Ministry of Finance. We've done everything at the Ministry, and I must say that in some areas I have extremely good associates, including Harvard education. The only thing that has been put into production outside the Ministry of Finance is an analysis of the possible impact of tax reliefs on corporate income tax. This is an economic econometric analysis which sees how tax reliefs affect economic growth and so on in this law. It was prepared by the economic institute of the Faculty of Law and the costs were equal to - 6 million tolars. This is the only thing we've done out there, and I have to say that in my opinion, I have read all these laws; I am not a legal expert, but others who are legal experts have told me, some have been really determined. Of course, you have great laws to make, but I say, good ones. I don't think any of them were really bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary! I will not compete with you how many paragraphs or articles have been corrected, but we can do so, but I fully believe your comment. But I would not exactly agree with what the lady said, Mrs her, because I have my own opinion. Even though I didn't mention it in my question, I'm going to warn you about something else. For example, in the law on the sale of state property, on various guarantees etc. coming from your ministry, now much less, but never had financial analysis along with, so that one could judge, as if one were selling his own house, that he knew how much it was worth, etc. They're just sums and we should be deciding on them on the basis of guesswork. I'm just adding that. This was done primarily in front of your ministry, but it came from one office, I think, who never had to understand that we needed more detailed information. That's how business works, business units, and I don't think the state understands it enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u183	I fully agree with you, Dr. Bernick. Any law that comes, but primarily about guarantees, must definitely have its consequences and also an assessment of the likelihood that this basic loan will be paid off. And I know how much we've been trying to get all the guarantees, especially for Dars, to have a very thorough review of what Darsa's obligations will be in the future in the next 30 years, or whether it will be possible to cover the maintenance costs of the toll and the repayment of these loans at the same time. I'd say it took a few months for us to do that. So I agree, it has to have, and I'm trying to make it so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be asked a question by Mr Anton Butolen.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister and other ministers, colleagues and fellow Members! In the area of direct payments, Slovenia has taken a major step forward and a new Member of the European Union is best prepared. Nevertheless, the annual submission of requests for direct payments is, of course, an extremely demanding information, both for the agencies and for the investors themselves. My questions or questions were brought to my attention by the investors themselves when they read the instructions for this year’s subsidies. I quote the last sentence in the first paragraph: "Let us pay particular attention to you this year, that you will avoid any possible sanctions that will be imposed on investors who will be exposed to administrative errors by submitting a correct and complete application." Such a text, which, of course, was originally signed by the Director of Masters Sonja Bukovec, and the interpretation later given on the ground by agricultural advisers, of course, upset some investors because they were afraid that they would be punished by administrative errors or administrative errors. Therefore, of course, I ask: On what regulation is this threat that someone would be punished for administrative errors? But we understand the penalty as punishment! What will actually be considered as administrative errors? I assume this is about other things, that this is about, simply put, fraud. It is said that someone would report some crops or in some parcels that are not available. But in this case, at least I don't think it's an administrative error. Of course, I would also ask: Will this year's applications be dealt with in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, so that certain administrative errors can be corrected? And: How was an advisory service prepared to help fill out applications? For I must say that there have been some misunderstandings here, and I would ask if you could answer these questions. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Butolin, for this question. After receiving your question, I went right to see what this introductory address was. Well, apart from that sentence you read, it's just a kind letter. Here, of course, it points to the importance of a proper and perfect role to be given. Unfortunately, I would say that whether someone likes it or not, we have entered the European Union and, in fact, the conditions for obtaining funds from such public sources are very strict. The Agency shall, as far as possible, seek to alert candidates to the difficulties encountered in errors that may have arisen. That way, I would have taken this sentence as a good warning rather than a threat of any kind. It is also true that procedures are carried out in accordance with European rules and standards. And if the Agency fails to do its job properly, this will also result in the taking away of the European part of the funds and, of course, of our part of the funds. Well, when you talk about what these so-called sanctions should actually be applied on the basis of an administrative error or on the basis of administrative control carried out, all of this will be implemented in accordance with the 2004 Regulation on the implementation of agricultural policy measures, which was published in Official Journal No 24 this year. What will be considered an administrative error? As I said, part of control is also the exercise of administrative control. In particular, there is a discrepancy between the data from the registers and other official records and the data reported by the applicant in the application or application. These are so-called administrative errors. Of course, that comment of yours is, in theory, in place. In this case, only a written error can really occur, but it can also happen that someone does not provide the correct information for any other reason. However, this administrative control is prescribed, carried out by the Agency’s workers and on this basis they try to warn and correct these errors. Procedures will be carried out in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act in 2004. And how the advisory service was prepared for this help. I do not know how the advisory service is doing this, but I certainly see that the agency has made a great effort to actually do what many workshops and preparatory courses have taught those who will carry out and provide assistance in fulfilling the applications. Thus, for example, the agency organised a two-day workshop in January. At the workshop, consultants from all regions of Slovenia presented the operation of the computer system for data entry. In March, the agency organised a consultation with 300 agricultural advisers and agricultural inspectors from all over Slovenia. They presented the content of the Regulation, the market order and also the technical part, the implementing part of the Regulation, such as the way applications are applied, the deadlines, the registers, all that is necessary. Then, between 23.3. and 26.3., she prepared and re-educated consultants, attended by 75 consultants from all over Slovenia and lasted from 8am to 8 p.m. On 1 April, we also introduced a specific website on the Agency, which is intended only for consultants for the exchange of opinions and the acquisition of additional information. Answers to questions from the outside shall be prepared by the Agency’s experts in cooperation with the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. And we've also introduced an open phone, a call center that works from 9 a.m. to 15 p.m., where you can actually get some answers to some questions about direct payments. That's all the agency did. I think you're best prepared for these activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I fully agree with you in this respect. But I'm still going to say, "administrative error," I just don't like it or I don't understand it. If someone cites wrong information for his crops, it is not an administrative error for me, but it is practically a fraud that is even a crime, not just an administrative error. For people understood this doctrine of 'administrative error' differently. People simply understood that if he forgot to sign, he would give the wrong house number and so on. These are basically administrative errors. Certainly not that he listed the wrong culture on a plot, then I fully agree that he is being punished for it or has been deprived of any subsidy, that they must return it and that there can be no dilemma here. Of course, that's perfectly clear. Okay, but if that's what this is all about, then I'll take that explanation as well. However, as regards the advisory service, I asked this question because certain field advisers explained that the application prescribed in this article could not be submitted without their signature. This, of course, is not true to me, and it happened that farmers did it themselves, but later they took the consultant to sign it, paid 4,000 tolars for it, and then the paradox is that this sheet, which is essentially a control sheet on the completeness of the application, is not an integral part of the role, but it sticks to the back and absolutely has to be present. By signing it to him, the consultant did not guarantee anything, but it did not guarantee anything, took no responsibility, and it was definitely on the advice given by the advisors. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Work with citizens or investors, so to speak. [[...]] And there's another flower I'd like to find. Of course, this is understandable in such a difficult process, but there is still a need to pay more attention in the coming year because of the huge resources involved. I think it's about 25 billion tolars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u191	In any event, the applicant can perform his own role if he needs the assistance of a consultant, of course, this aid actually pays. But it's not mandatory. Everyone can perform the role themselves, send it away, and there is no need for further advice. And I agree with you that all the news is as difficult as this administration sometimes is at the beginning of the difficult, and then it becomes easier. I just hope that in the coming years we can work things out even better together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan asked the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, after a question was asked by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So, I ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport: Mr Minister, do you think that the graduates of the university programmes so far will be in a subordinate position in the labour market in the European Union, in particular compared to the graduates from Germany, Italy or Austria, in view of the proposal for a new law on higher education? To explain what I meant by that. According to the new proposal of this law, which is already under way, in order to achieve a second level of education according to these new criteria, it is necessary - similar to the university's four-year free study plus one year of Master's paid study or a three-year high school free plus two years of Master's degree to be paid - to introduce scholarships to achieve a new second level of education or to achieve a profession valued at 300 points of the KT level or second level. This is a problem that is seen on two sides: one is a problem ahead, there will probably be no problems, because we will introduce such studies and the issue will not be problematic, but the bigger problem I see in the backroom. In fact, this problem occurs before those who have so far achieved this high university education, is called the current second level, and the new bot is valued from 180 to 240 KT and not 300 and will only be under the first-degree code. All of this means that Slovenia is one of the rare EU countries - I don't know whether it was the basic problem of tuition, it hit it - I don't know, I hope I haven't made a mistake - a few tens of thousands of graduates with a university degree or a second degree, but now they will be in the EU labour market because we are no longer closed down, but we will, of course, run on the EU market and vice versa, even EU graduates will be able to run for us, and now our future will be in a subordinate position - our graduates. I ask the Minister why the proposal is not more kind to these few tens of thousands of diplomats of our second degree and to have an equal position with university graduates from Germany, Italy and Austria, and someone else in direct contact with them for work. For now our second level will be evaluated as the first, but in the countries I have listed in Germany, Italy and Austria, this four-year programme is valued at a second level. This means that our graduates will be in an unequal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u195	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. Our services provide, and I also guarantee, that our graduates will not be in a subordinate position in the EU labour market. Now - why? This requires a more thorough explanation. If I start with the credit points that you ended up with, then I would like to point out that every year it is valued with 60 credit points - not only in Slovenia, but also in other countries parties to the Bologna Declaration. From this logical point of view, the current four-year study is, in fact, somewhat equivalent to the 240th loan. This is what they usually do around Europe. The addition to Article 51 of the Act, which was adopted here in the Committee of the National Assembly, speaks about this. It says that as a rule, everyone who continues to study in Slovenia at the university is trying to obtain a second degree, the degree of study after the new, that is to say master's degree, recognised 60 credit points. This has already touched the logic of higher education in Europe. Europe continues to separate two forms of recognition from the Lisbon Convention in this area. One is recognition for the continuation of studies, recognition of the level achieved and type of education achieved for the continuation of studies, and here we will do as I have just described. Secondly, recognition for the performance of work, with Council Directive 89/48 on the general recognition of diplomas saying that the basis for the recognition of competence in the labour market is the first stage of three years, at least for a period of three years, and further points out that, in fact, it is a criterion for your competence to be recognised in other countries of the European Union, to recognise your competence in your labour market. From this double combination, it comes out more than before, except for regulated professions, where it is also considered that the whole of Europe is subject to the same regulation and the same minimum requirement that our people should not be in a subordinate position in this labour market. It doesn't say to cover your eyes in front of another fact. Indeed, before the fact that the diploma itself is not yet a job and that employers are the ones who decide who they hire. Slovenia here is specific, we are one of the more regulated labour markets when it comes to employment. We have a whole bunch of regulations that say exactly what you need to be to be so that you can carry out a particular profession, so we are facing more, probably, long-term deregulation. Why the deregulation? Because the above-mentioned directive of the European Union will force us to recognise to others their skills in our labour market because they are qualified to carry out their profession. But it's not a question of recognition of diplomas, it's another question. It is a matter of deregulation of our labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Would you like Mr. Petten to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, we agree further. We don't have any differences here. But the bigger problem arises with the so far, the ones who have graduated so far. I obtained three documents, three laws from Austria and one from Germany from Italy. Austria is even a little specific, but in the Italian law of November last year, it literally says that it is four years old, which is equivalent to our university programme, to a new one - says example 3+2. Because they're probably going to go to a similar system as we do, and 3+2 and 4+1 are probably going to go to 4+1. That it's equivalent! That's what they say. It's about saving those who have graduated so far. That's what I'm talking about. We'll be inequitable here. See, in Italy this is written directly that the current, our university, for example, is also a university four-year-old equivalent to this new to achieve II. Levels. In the Austrian university law, which is one year old - at least the one I have acquired - it is also written that for graduates a four-year study is equivalent to II. rate. Then he also cites a three-year plus two-year mastery. Apparently. The Master's degree is only for an additional three-year program, which they strangely call. Master's degree is all for that. It's similar in Germany. And now for example: in Slovenia there is a call for a call for a II. level of education. Graduates from the Austrian Faculty are applying where the current four-year study is recognised as II. the degree and the Slovenian graduates of the university programme, where only Grade I is recognised. This is said, even at home, we will be in an unequal position - university programme graduates, because only the first level will be recognised, Austria, Germany and Italy will have a recognised II. Level. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] To finish. It's true that it's important to know, but when you sign up for an invitation, you have to give me the papers. Without the papers, they will not accept you, and based on the papers, even on the paper, they will generally assess you. You might have to do another test or something. That is why it is very important how we will recognize those who have so far, university studies or I. or II. Level. I think we should be generous enough to allow them to run on an equal footing with European graduates, these diplomats. I mean, this is where we're gonna have to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u199	Thank you. We will, of course, also carry out further checks based on what you claim. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that employment will increasingly run on the basis that you will add a diploma to the diploma, and on the basis of the appendix to the diploma, you will see what you have actually done. And on that basis, the employer will decide whether to take you or someone else. Most European countries do not, with certainty, correct their educational structure. Among other things, Italy is known to be in the midst of major discussions on how the Bologna process was introduced, because it has been introduced faster than us and than some other countries and is therefore withdrawing at some points. But I would like to draw attention here to the dilemma ahead of us, or it will be Friday before us, because then we will discuss the law on higher education. If these four-year studies were to be declared a complete second level, which is after a new five-year study, which is 3+2 or 4+1, so you get a second degree, then you would devalue new studies. If they admitted that he had already been admitted to five years of study for four years, it was simply more than he had actually done. But that's what the debate's gonna be about Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič will raise the question of the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u201	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I will ask Mr Kopač, Minister for Environment and Space. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have already pointed out in the pre-accession period the weaknesses and negative consequences of Slovenia's entry into the EU in various areas. However, the justification of our concerns has already been incoherently demonstrated. Since 1 May 2004, the Slovenian real estate market has also been released for other EU citizens. After May 1st, many foreigners and our media published information about the growing interest of foreigners in the purchase of Slovenian properties. The information on the increase in the number of purchases referred to by the real estate comparison agencies is as follows. In 10 years, 13 foreigners in the Pyrenees were to purchase property officially. In the first week of May, 10 real estate purchases were recorded. Foreigners are particularly interested in the most interesting locations of houses, villas, weekends in tourist areas and city centres. I ask the Minister: How does he intend to prevent the sale of Slovenian properties? What will you do as a competent minister that foreigners will not pick up the most attractive and valuable buildings and land in Slovenia? It is obvious that Slovenia is small, but it appears to be a rich and interesting country, which is mainly appreciated by foreigners. I also ask the Minister: With what measures does he intend to prevent the increase in prices brought by increased demand? That's what real estate agents predict. The fact is that real estate is already unattainable to most citizens. Our negotiators are, however, expected to be able to condition a fuse that allows the imposition of protective measures over the next 7 years if disturbances occur on the Slovenian real estate market. So I'm wondering, what is it exactly? What is the real estate market supposed to mean? And: What measures and strategy are they prepared at the Ministry in the event of these disturbances? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u203	Thank you very much for the question, Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. You said that Slovenia can be valued mainly by foreigners. I don't think that's true - most people can appreciate it. Well, if we're talking about real estate, of course we know that at real estate prices. After all, we have three Slovenian regions where the price of real estate continues to rise: these are the coast, Gorenjska and Ljubljana. Well, and it is here that there is no difference in prices after 1 May of this year, i.e. after the entry into the European Union and after the opening of the possibility of uninterrupted real estate purchases to nationals of other Member States of the European Union in Slovenia. We have not seen any other special fluctuations in prices. The fact is, we already have a whole range of options for action in our legislation if there were any negative phenomena. Such options are the pre-emptive right under the real law, the pre-emptive right under the housing law, the pre-emptive right under the law on the regulation of premises in favour of the municipality, the pre-emptive right under the law on conservation of nature in favour of the State, the pre-emptive right under the law on protection of the environment also in favour of the State, the pre-emptive right under the law on agricultural land, the pre-emptive right under the law on forest protection, the pre-emptive right under the law on defence and the pre-emptive right under the law on protection of cultural heritage. All of these are instruments available to the State or the municipality to reach out to the market if it considers that something that should not in any way come into the hands of anyone other than the State or the congregation to prevent it. As you mentioned, Article 37 of the Act of Accession of Slovenia to the European Union states that Slovenia may resort to the general safeguard clause referred to in this Article for a period not exceeding seven years from the date of accession. These phenomena - you asked what they were supposed to be - but above all there are huge fluctuations in prices. In short, in the event of a sudden rise in the price in an area due to the sudden high interest of citizens of other Member States of the European Union, Slovenia could enforce this so-called safeguard clause, in accordance with European Union law, which is a protection mechanism beyond all those pre-emptive rights that I have mentioned earlier. In short, we are legally well-armed for possible intervention or the country's response in the event that events on the market show such a need and we have not yet seen such events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, we fear that the sale of our Slovenian land will indeed take place, or that prices are rising indefinitely. Would you like to ask the Minister another question: Do you keep records at the Ministry, which, to what extent and to whom are Slovenian properties sold? And: Are there any activities already under way to prevent this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We do not keep records by nationality or nationality of the buyer, and we have never conducted them before. In fact, we do not have the authority to demand citizenship as data from the buyer. Such an assessment could theoretically be made on the basis of a survey, but for the time being we do not have it, after all we have only been in the European Union for two weeks. However, any more well-founded assessment of events will, of course, require a number of events, so far virtually there has been no event, suffers for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The Minister of Economy will ask Mr Samo Bevk a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. Minister of Economy, Dr Matey Lahovnik, I am asking about the possibility of transferring the mercury mine Idrija in a state-owned closure to the local community. During the years of mine closure, a greater number of applications were made for the transfer of part of the assets of the mercury mine, which includes a number of land and facilities in the city of Idrija itself and which is not necessary for the implementation of the closure programme, to the municipality of Idrija free of charge. About a third of urban areas are owned by the country, such as greenery, playgrounds, parking lots, many other areas and some facilities. So far, only the mining cultural hall was returned to the congregation in 2003 after almost eight years of efforts, and it has been maintained and renovated by the congregation itself for decades. The Public Finance Act in Article 80b speaks of the principle of non-remuneration of the State's financial and real property, provided that this is permitted under a specific law. Let me mention that I have tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the mercury mine of Idri, which refers to the above-mentioned legal provision and expressly allows this. In addition, Article 21 of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, which allows the transfer of the country's commercially unnecessary assets with the aim of promoting coherent regional development. On this basis, the procedures for transferring the cultural home in Kočevska Rijeka to the municipality of Kočevje and the apartments and municipally equipped land and other real property of the uranium Žirovski vrh to the municipality of Gorenja Vas Poljane, whose proponents were the Ministry of Defence, Environment, Space and Energy. The procedure for transferring the property of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine to the municipality of Trbovlje is also part of the government procedure, in which the Ministry of Structural Policy and Regional Development is involved. Minister, Dr. Lahovnik, I ask: When will the Ministry of Economy transfer the property of the mercury mine to the municipality of Idria? I thank the Minister very much for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Matthew Lachovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u211	The government has not yet decided on or dealt with the amendment of the law. The point of view of the Ministry of the Economy is that it is possible to transfer free of charge only in cases where the municipality presents a programme of activities and where the facilities or parcels are intended for public good. However, it is not possible to make the transfer free of charge if the property is intended for further sale or for commercial use. As you correctly stated, in 2003 it was thus freely transferred to the municipality of Idrija a cultural hall with a corresponding plot of 1063 square meters, part of the plots in the area of the Aumec square, to an extent of 983 square meters - it is a public area or road - then also in the process is the transfer of the Jaška and Zaga machinehouse, with the corresponding plots of 826 square meters, projected for the tourist information center. If the proposed law on supplementing the laws on prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idrija mercury mine is not adopted, the Ministry of Economy will continue to insist on the views that the free transfer of individual parcels intended for public good may be possible. If the law cited is adopted, the transposition will be possible according to the provisions of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Well, it's true that the amendment to the law has not yet been adopted. In my question, however, I also mentioned the possibility offered by Article 21 of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, which allows the transfer of the country's commercially unnecessary assets with the aim of promoting regional development. These legal options have been used both by the Ministry of Defence and by the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. The basis for such a decision is first of all to decide, of course, whether, in such cases, it is indeed a business unnecessary property of the State. In a number of cases, which were listed in relation to the ownership of the mercury mine in Idrija, this is precisely the case. That way, we could use these other options. However, any transfer carried out to the local community by the State or mine for the local community, in this case for the city of Idrija and the municipality of Idrija, is welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Would you like another word, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u215	When I mentioned whether this is a public good or an appropriate programme of activity, the Ministry of Economy does not object to this, as in the cases mentioned above. However, it is different if there is a possibility of further commercial use or if there is a sale.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will ask the question of the Magi. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Dimovski. It's about funding home for the elderly. How are homes for the elderly financed? How are prices set? The highest and lowest. What is the share of the State in the care or budget and how many from local communities? How much are the top salaries of directors and how many with all the supplements? Of course, on average. Why do I ask about these supply prices? Because they're talking to us in my office, and they're asking us how do older people's homes add extra prices to these basic care providers, extra costs like, say, using technical tools just in a flat-rate, even though they don't use them? Second. An additional tariff for cabinets 10 centimeters higher, or an additional standard for a few centimeters larger nightstand, a larger space where this lobby is such that you can barely walk with a wheelchair. Loading balconies for people who are immobile and cannot go to the balcony and these balconies are not even used, but they are, of course, within the building some above standard, considered if the closets are erected. In our opinion and in my opinion these are imaginary prices, this is a deliberate and hidden raise in nursing homes for the elderly. Mr. Secretary! Please, if you can answer those questions that I just asked you and what the reasons are. Are you familiar with these facts that I have given you, or do you find that appropriate?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u219	Of course, I would be grateful if you could specify exactly which home it is, because what you have stated is not in accordance with the rules or regulations governing the pricing of services. That is to say, if this is happening, of course, it is not in line with the price that we, as the ministry, approve. So I would be very grateful if, in particular, they would provide us with this in order to respond within their respective competences. In any case, however, we always say that each caregiver or caregiver has the opportunity to deliver any complaint, opinion and so on to the supervisory authority. That's what I'd say for a while. Where we have been informed that, for example, an additional service, which is not in accordance with the Regulation or Regulation, we have intervened immediately and then requested that the arrangements be made in accordance with the rules adopted in 2003 and with which the supply prices and structure are very precisely determined, since it is essentially the Ministry which will eventually agree on the price. However, I would say that the answer is only to hang, but I would like to say how to finance, what you asked, home for older citizens. According to the Social Protection Act, there are three types of care or three segments, namely basic care relating to housing and organised nutrition, social care and health care, which is the area of protection. As far as funding is concerned, and as is known, home users are paying supplies for basic care and social care. While what we are talking about so-called health services, it is financed by a health insurance institution, both for national homes and for concessional homes, provided for by a contract on the distribution of health insurance funds each year. However, as far as that part of the budget is concerned, what is said, directly from the budget, are possible investments, namely, investments, investment maintenance works when we are talking about enlargements, adaptations, and these are adopted under the government's specific programme. Since last year, it has been said since 2003, and the State budget has also financed the provision of funds for the cost of the care of persons who have a permanent residence registered at the address of a public institution, unless they had a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. And that's the news of the marriage. At the same time, let me say that homes can also acquire funds on the market if, of course, they get the consent of the founder, the ministries say. That's what the first part of the answer is. Secondly, as regards coordination, the strategy that we have adopted since the adoption of the rules on the methodology for the pricing of social security services and which has resulted in a clear and transparent definition of the prices of services in all social security institutions, including the need for price quotations that individual social security institutions have to have - in the past - where it has not been - where it is clear what the individual institution can actually calculate in price structure. And that's, I'd say, what I told you before, what you can do, what you can't do at any price. Let me say that the strategy we adopted in this regard was to equalise the differences in prices, which were in terms of care of 1, 2 and 3, and other services of all social security institutions. This so-called coefficient of variation was almost 40, 45, 46% at the start of this. Following the coordinations 1, 2 and 3, we have now carried out a variation coefficient of 29%. This is said to be our long-term strategy that by 2007 the provider would pay the same price for the same service anywhere in Slovenia, of course under the same conditions and the same quality of services. This, of course, seems very important to me. What are the highest and lowest average supply prices. This is what we're talking about at the cost of care 1, I'm going to finish this part here, the highest in the home of the pensioners Krško, 3,173 on the day of care, and the lowest in the home of the pensioners Impolca 2.299. That's basically this variation maximum, the minimum I was talking about. But if we say the average, the maximum is even lower.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u220	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u221	Thank you very much. See, however, even if this answer is correct and these comments follow the criteria, then it would be damn good to look at the criteria. This will probably need to be coordinated. It's not just one letter, it's another, there's an account. When this party asked how they charged her two times four thousand 330 extra, that is to say 8,600, she replied by going from now on to counting 10 centimeters larger cabinets and nightstands, such as standards and that pre-space in front of the room is somehow superstandard, and that the balcony is charged to everyone, including those on a wheelchair that can't actually reach it. That's it now. Now there's something they can't get to. This is, in my opinion, an artificial lifting of services. Or, for a reservation, you have to pay 44,000 tolls for three weeks to book in advance, even though you're not in. These are just quasi services that raise prices then to the caregivers so that they can't pay or their family members. It's full of them, and the artists are the ones who run the houses to just pick up the money. What can you say to that? Do you agree with them? Do you agree with the criteria?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u223	As I have already said, honourable Member, I would be very grateful if we would actually get these specific comments, because it is very clear from the rules and regulations, what can and should not be done. If this was actually charged, you can't do that, I can say that directly. Of course, any such possibility is that even in some way this disagreement will be declared either to the world or to the ministry and we will certainly act directly because we have already acted in many cases. But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer that other part of the question that you had about how much the caregivers are making, how much is going on from the state budget. This is a novelty that has been brought by the regulation, which actually protects, I would say those who themselves cannot or cannot afford to pay care in their homes. And we've also taken care of you or taken care of this regulation that I talked about before. In this context, in addition to the cost in homes for older and special social homes, and I say this for 2002 because all the data are collected now, it is for those who are not actually able to fully settle the supply from one of their sources. In this sense, there is a combination of family members - tenants around 27% of these special allowances, or additional allowances, where it is a resident in combination with the municipality as an indirect budget user 24%, where it is a combination of relatives and the municipality 1% and where it concerns residents, relatives and the municipality 2%, and the municipality as a whole is about 4.5%. This is now the structure for the killing of all these allowances imposed by the Regulation on the criteria for a certain exemption in the payment of social security services. I have to say this in an additional reply. However, as for the first part of this second part of the question, I would be grateful if the party would provide us with the opportunity to perform the supervisory function that is within our competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In February this year, the National Assembly passed a law on the agri-agricultural chamber. Prior to that, Nova Slovenija submitted its proposal for a law that sought to raise the amount that determined who was to be a member of the agricultural chamber on the height of the cadastral income. This would indirectly reduce the number of mandatory members of the agri-agricultural chamber. The proposal was rejected by the ruling coalition, but now it has turned out that election participation in elections to the bodies of the agri-forestry chamber has been extremely poor. There was little more than 12%, which suggests that members do not take the room seriously and that something will have to be done about it. At the time of the adoption of the law, there were also many discussions on the financing of the Chamber. However, since the agricultural forestry chamber is an institution, which is mostly budgeted in addition to the membership, I ask: Were the data on the salary of the president of the chamber published in the newspaper Finance on 7.5.2004 true? There is quite a stir among the members of the agri-agricultural chamber. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Milan Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mrs Tisovic, for this question. I would say that at first I was in a dilemma, if this is even a question to which I am competent to answer, but your question also relates to the use of public funds. In this context, of course, I will answer you. I'm so sorry I couldn't, and it's not my responsibility to check the salary of the director or the president of the agri-agricultural chamber. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber is an independent and non-governmental organisation, our social partner. It is true, however, that we finance part of their activities from the budget and thus finance the activity of this public advisory service of 2 billion 100 and then the work of the chamber of 197 million. I went to check and from these funds, neither the President's salary nor the salaries of other officials in the Chamber are formed from public funds, since these salaries are mainly covered by funds collected from the Chamber's contribution. Thus, the salary of the President of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture and others employed there shall be exclusively within the competence of the members of this Chamber and shall be responsible for the amount of his personal income. There's so much I can do for you. Of course, with regard to our resources on the basis of a programme that we carefully check, then we conclude a contract on this basis and also then pay public funds on the basis of a procedure that is specifically prescribed, but not for the personal income of the officers of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete his answer? Mrs. Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u229	I am pleased that it was whether it was also budgeted. That is why the question was raised here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Economy the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. During the month of August, in the time of pickles, the government sold 83% of the company Systemic Technology until then the works of the Slovenian Ironworks at a low price. This company had previously received several billion state orders for the manufacture of military equipment and according to experts, the profit of this business alone is greater than the purchase value of 80% of the shares that the government has recovered. Although many of us have called on Prime Minister Rope to abolish the harmful treaty, nothing has happened. At the end of November, Viator Vector sold a minority share to Steier, an American-owned company, for a higher purchase than he had previously paid to the State for 83%. 3. 12. 2003 Prime Minister Rop, following the violent reactions of the media and civil society to corruption, demanded a verification of the sound sale of Systemic Technology. Clearly, it was a political bluff to see how the government would check everything, as nothing has been reported to the public today, although six months have passed. Even at the Minister's hearing, it turned out that President Robb has not even spoken to you about this, nor has he informed you, so it is high time for the public to know whether anything has been checked. During this time, I made sure that the government of Owl had not ordered any inquiries as to whether this deal with foreigners had been agreed before the country was sold to Viator Vector. It is more than obvious that it was a political bluff, that something will be checked that it is done regularly and that is why I ask you to give the answers. At the same time, I would ask: What are you going to do as the new Minister of Economy to get into Slovenia in the future a non-problem, non-spectrum capital that will also bring new jobs with the room? What are you going to do to keep it from happening that good businesses will sell cheap to friends of high government officials and then sell them at multiple prices, leaving employees at the mercy and mercy of foreign owners? Why does the government not want or is not interested in selling its assets at economic cost to the benefit of the state and citizens, but rather in caring for the super profits of political supporters? Following such government actions, Slovenia's healthy, non-spectrum capital is, of course, avoided, as has also been shown by the fall of Slovenia on the competitiveness scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Matthew Lachovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u233	The budgetary inspection for budgetary control carried out a review of the legality of the procedures of the Ministry of the Economy concerning the procedures for the sale of state property in the form of an 80 % share in the company Systematic Technique, d.o.o. According to the findings of the budgetary inspection, the Ministry of Finance also further examined the course of settlement and execution of the sale and found that due to the connection of ownership of the company Slovenske Slovenske želizarne, Machinery and Technology Equipment, d.o.o., with the parent company Slovenske železarne d.d. and in view of the transparency of the procedures for the sale of business shares to the creditors of the company of sale of the Systematic Technology, guided by the procedures laid down in the Regulation on the sale of State property. In addition, in the process of forcible settlement, the status transformation of Machines and Technology Equipment was carried out, d.o.o. The main objective of the company's state-of-the-art conversion in the enforcement settlement process was to achieve greater price effects in the sale of companies' business shares, better insurance for creditors and the certainty of the planned creditors' payment, and to maintain production programmes and employment at the location, which would be with Machines and Technology Equipment d.o.o. As a whole, it's impossible. At the Ministry of Finance, it was estimated that the sale of the 80 % stake in Ssystemska technika d.o.o. Viator Vector carried out correctly and transparently. At the same time, the objectives pursued by the Government in the sale of the assets held by the State in the subsidiaries of the Slovenian Ironworks were met. These are: job conservation and planned investments, appropriate purchases, creditors' payments and company preservation in the future. In order to achieve these objectives, the sales contract also granted an explicit licence granted for strategic reasons for selling the 29 % share of Steier Daimler Puch’s basic share, which was paid by a licence for the production of waves. [[8 times 8 is just a label.]] . Until then, the Systemic technique had a licence only for the production of different types of waves. [[6 times 6]] . In addition to that inspection, the Ministry of Finance also requested the Slovenian Institute of Audit to carry out control of the authorised assessor in accordance with the auditing law. The latter found that the evaluator made the assessment carefully, responsibly, independent of any interests of anyone and in accordance with standards. On the basis of the oversight carried out, it can therefore be established that the sale of the system technique was carried out in accordance with the rules in force, since the Commission took into account not only the interests of the creditors in the sale, since the company sold itself in the framework of the compulsory settlement of the parent company, but also the objectives of the sales programme of the subsidiaries of the Slovenski Iron System. This is to ensure social security for as many workers as possible and to ensure that an appropriate strategic partner not only preserves the existing programme and production but will even extend it. As far as the second part of your question is concerned with my measures to promote foreign direct investment, I will personally, in a short time, come into the procedure, tomorrow, the law to promote foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of business operations, which the relevant team at the Ministry of Economy has been preparing for a long time. I look forward to your support here because this will also be a positive signal, as you yourself have correctly identified, to foreign strategic investors, especially those who want to invest in high added value activities and thus contribute to the creation of new jobs in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as I'm concerned personally, I've also made certain contacts if there was any interest in foreign investors. Of course, there are no results in this short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u235	Thank you very much for that answer. You are obviously aware by the government that the answer is not given to the public. At least I think that so far the public has not been informed of this and the symbolic message of this is that in the future the business allowed is not allowed to interfere and also the various budgetary inspections do not interfere. Mr Minister, did no one ask themselves why the country would not sell directly to Steier 29% of the shares for that licence, but would have obtained a significantly higher payout, and 70% of the company would still be left behind, thus rid of 80% of the company, and immediately after that the new owners had reselled. And these resells are happening forever. They keep happening. And with such a response you send a message to Slovenian citizens and Slovenian workers: Fear the government because it does not work for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u237	Thank you. It should be pointed out here that this has already been expressly agreed upon in the contract. As I said, for strategic reasons. The foreign strategic partner did not pay with cash, but with a license, which is a major difference. The Slovenian buyer paid with money. It's a different way of paying. That's the first thing. And the other thing. The foreign strategic partner has also conditioned entry into the company by participating in the business of an appropriate private company in some way of privatisation. He didn't want to come in on his own, or he could have checked in. The invitation was open and, as you said, if you had this interest, you would probably sign up and enter the company in that way. However, since this was not the case, there was a different way of selling, which I think is still very useful mainly for employees in this company because they are thus provided with a long-term perspective. It should be pointed out that the licence itself does not in itself mean that this programme will be successful, and it will have to be marketed accordingly. I think that, as I have previously pointed out, the relevant interests have been taken into account mainly here of the employees or society, which is also one of the objectives in privatising state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Mamić will ask the Minister of Culture a question, which is absent, however. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. I welcome all present. My question concerns respect for the renowned composer Stank Premrl, who was one of Slovenia's most fertile composers. It's not about the hero Jank Premrl. It's like sometimes there's a trade, because that was his uncle. Its features are impressive tunes, and so is its resounding of Prešeren's Zdravljica, Slovenian anthem. His work is therefore rich, diverse, and extensive. I wonder: Why is there still no suitable monument that deserves it? When and where will the Slovenian state put it? In the form of an initiative, I propose that the composer Stank Premrl be placed with a breast statue in the birth village under Nanos in Vipavska, as well as in Ljubljana, where he created his works, some over 800 songs and was discovered on 14 March 2005, on the day of his 40th birthday. We wouldn't talk about the importance of the anthem because we all know what it means for the country. The sad fact is for the people of Slovenia that we all know who wrote the Health Agency and who made it sound, we are just a few people we know. Let us acknowledge to the great Slovenian that he does not fall into even greater oblivion than he already has. I will send a written question to the Minister and ask him to answer me in writing, in the hope that this answer will also be positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Mamić, ministers who have the question raised and are absent, are obliged, on the basis of the oral question, to answer you in writing within thirty days, so that you do not need to prepare anything in writing again. What you've just said is quite enough. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Okay. [[...]] The Minister of Health, who is also absent, will be asked a question by Mr France Tsukati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. Well, we have been in Europe for a long time and, of course, we have long known that we will soon be in Europe, but in recent times we have seen unpleasant things happening in the health sector, particularly in the area of the public health service network. A few months ago, we had an affair with the abolition of a paediatric infirmary in Novi Jarša. When the people happened, the pediatric infirmary came back. Murska Sobota General Hospital is threatening to shut down the pediatric ward because there are no pediatricians. Humanity hasn't happened yet. I don't know when it's gonna happen. In Black and Mnemonics, they threatened to end not only the gynecological outpatient but also the children's clinic. Here let me read a statement from a gentleman from Montenegro who says, "I signed a petition too, because in Black things, they just cancel. Although we are at the end of the world, people need a pediatrician, a gynecologist and adequate access to health and so on." And he goes on to say, "It's bad for society to let us take our X-ray machine, which happened two years ago, they shut down the gynecologist last year, this year's consulting room, we don't know what else to expect." The latest information is likely to be made available by the Presidency itself. But what's interesting is that we talked about these problems four years ago. In 2000, we adopted a national healthcare programme, which clearly stated that a public health service network was being set up. In 1999, the Law on Medical Services was passed, which clearly states: "In one year the doctor should name a network of medical jobs after Slovenia, a pediatrician here, a pediatrician there, a gynecologist there and so on." Today, they shut down where people happen, they get back. But they're shutting down the infirmary. They're shutting down. And no one guarantees any place to have an ambulance tomorrow, because there's no network. And what did the minister do in those four years? I hope he'll answer me next time. Only this was answered by a ministry representative to think that basic health care would be determined at regional level. Where are the regions? In four years, instead of doing what the law requires of the Ministry, the minister began to think that these things would be resolved by the region. I hope I get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u242	Thank you very much. The Minister of Health will also be asked a question by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Your Honor! On an international day that has been celebrated recently by nurses, it is an opportunity to remind ourselves once again that our country still does not recognize the right status and that they still receive a shamefully low payment for their work. On 1 May, Slovenia became a full member of the European Union. Since they have already faced a serious shortage of nurses, it is even more likely that these deficits will try to solve employment from new members, including Slovenia. This will further exacerbate the question of the lack of nurses present now, as we would need at least 1,500 right now. Both the status and wages in countries that offer our nurses are significantly better than in Slovenia. And it can happen that nurses will leave, and experts warn that this will lead to major problems in this area by 2020. There is already an association at European Union level that is supposed to be over the registration of nurses. I would take care of the issue of work permits and the supervision of the profession. National registers are expected to be linked to the European network. In doing so, it appears that Slovenia will be complicated. Although the profession already has such a register with us, it is not implemented because it has not been given public authority to manage it. I ask the distinguished Minister: Will Slovenia therefore have any problems? When and how will you begin to exercise professional oversight in this area? How long are we going to have to wait for the Ministry to give the nurses inside health care the town they're going with and the corresponding payment? I ask that the Minister of Health at the next meeting respond orally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobnik will ask the Minister of Economy the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! I'm asking you the next question. Why is it that the call for a call for funds from the European Regional Development Fund, Measure 1.2, for the promotion of the development of tourist destinations, where the wider area of the Julian Alps is also defined, does not include certain other parts of Slovenia or certain municipalities such as Idria, Cerkno, Železniki? Let me briefly - I have written this in writing - but I would now like to briefly explain this question. This invitation to tender was recently published. It appears that it is discriminatory because it is simply not possible to apply for this invitation to tender for those companies which are not located in the municipalities envisaged by the tenderer in four basic geographical areas. I can tell you which centers, for example, will not be able to sign up: Old Top, Soriška Planina, Zelenica, Krvavec, Velika Planina, Logar Valley, Luče, Mozire, Solčava and Cerkno, Koroški part of ski resorts and also part of the Municipality of Semič. For me, the basic question is: What was the legal basis for this call? How were the criteria adopted? Was it really just a matter of free thinking without proper legal basis or accepted criteria? Could the legal basis for this call be adopted by a single programming document 2004/2006? The question is whether the invitation to tender is complete or whether the tendering conditions were such that at some appropriate time those who applied could also prepare their documentation well? What are the arguments that the following municipalities have fallen out: Železniki, Tržič, Cerklje na Gorenjska, Kamnik, Mozire, Luče, Solčava, Cerkno, Idrija and Škofja Loka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Matthew Lachovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u247	Thank you very much. In July 2002 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a strategy of Slovenian tourism for the period 2002/2006, which also truly sets out the basic geographical, productive and programme areas to which the development of tourism in the planned strategic period is directed. Basic geographical areas under this strategy are the wider area of the Julian Alps, the coast, Kras and Pohorje with Maribor. The main product areas are medical wellness tourism, gaming entertainment tourism and business tourism. The area of the Julian Alps is based on the strategy and comprises four tourist centers: Bled, Kranjska Gora, Bohinj and Bovec with the Sočko Valley and includes those municipalities that gravity in this area. It is true that the area of the municipalities of Cerkno, Idrija, Railways do not gravity in this area, so they are not included in the wider area of the Julian Alps. In view of the knowledge of the background of this issue, which is directly linked to the possibility of applying for a public tender, as you yourself have mentioned, to promote the development of tourist destinations, it is important to stress here that the inclusion of an individual municipality in the basic geographical areas is not an exclusive condition for the possibility of candidateing in a public tender. The invitation to tender may also be open to private investors from municipalities not included in the basic geographical areas, but with key investments in basic product areas, i.e. medical wellnes tourism, entertainment or business tourism. In line with this call for proposals, we are directing the development of key investments in basic geographical and product areas, i.e. those that we have decided on in the strategy and on the basis of all the analyses we have the most concrete competitive advantages and opportunities to achieve strategic objectives. Of course, I would like to stress, however, that the essential criterion for the actual selection and co-financing of a particular project is its quality, readiness and impact, or its contribution to the achievement of the strategic objectives of Slovenian tourism. This invitation to tender will support truly the most competitive tourist projects of Slovenian tourism, which will generate business opportunities and the development of new tourist products in tourist destinations. Finally, let me add that the strategy of Slovenian tourism 2002-2006 was, in this period, adopted after a broad and thorough prior public discussion with the tourism economy, municipalities and NGOs. Support for channelling development incentives to key projects and not to the fragmentation of available resources into a host of projects, we also have in the tourism expert council, where representatives of virtually all tourism stakeholders are represented, and at which I have also participated, and I have highlighted this issue that you have pointed out. In fact, it is possible here to discuss whether these areas are really well defined, whether an alternative definition is possible, but what is essential is that they are not exclusive conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u249	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. In your reply, which was substantive, of course there was a lack of l. And the point on the i would be that your department would simply complement the tendering conditions and thus allow for exactly the same possibilities. If this does not happen, then as a Member, I say that the person who led this process has gravely violated the principle of equality and the principle of free competition. These are principles which are one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. If your interpretation were followed, then you claim that Slovenian cableway operators and those with modern snowboarding devices are not able to prepare quality and competitive calls and projects. And soybeans can do it! This is especially true for Krvavec and Cerkno Centre [[I also have a part of their role here.]] . That's the first one. Secondly, the tourism development strategy, I personally know it very well. The wider area of the Julian Alps, there are also some municipalities that I previously counted - they are in the map and are written on the map. So there's no arbitration that can rule them out. This is an arbitrary approach that is unfair. You mention that some of these congregations are not associated with the Sokka Valley. Idrija and Cerkno are naturally connected to the Sočko valley. Whoever wrote or helped you, Mr Minister, to prepare this answer is simply a counter-argument in some elements. I therefore urge and appeal to you to complete the tendering conditions immediately so that all those who have all the conditions can also be prepared on the basis of the principle of free competition and the principle of equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u251	Once again, I stress that the key criterion for success in the invitation to tender is its quality and readiness, or appropriateness, to contribute to strategic objectives. This is not about exclusionary conditions. However, we have adopted a strategy for the development of Slovenian tourism for the period 2002-2006, as I mentioned. A number of tourism experts participated in this strategy, including from various areas of interest, geographical areas. I think it would be irresponsible, on my part, to simply go over these certain guidelines and simply run them over in such a way that this strategy is simply empty for ordinary letters on paper. I would like to emphasise that this is not an exclusionary condition. That's one aspect. Second point. If we complement the calls over and over again, regardless of any comment, whatever the argument we make, I wonder, of course, to what extent will we later acquire funds from the European Union. Those, it should be borne in mind that the relevant institutions in Brussels are likely to follow these conditions. Counter-adaptation to the wishes of individual stakeholders would, of course, raise questions about the regularity of calls. I'm stressing again. It's not an exclusion clause. I agree with many of your statements, in fact, these geographical areas can also be defined differently, but this is what the tourism expert council has defined, but this is not an exclusive condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Aloyz Sok, Minister of the Interior, will ask the question of the delegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, what's left of you, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Supervisory Committee of the Municipality of Podlohnnik and some of the saints asked me to ask you a question. In the municipality of Podlodhnik, the operation of the Congregation’s Supervisory Committee has been disabled for a long time, and the Municipal Council has not met since September last year. He did not confirm the closure of the 2002 and 2003 accounts and did not accept the 2003 budget balance, although the mayor carried out it, nor did he adopt the 2004 budget, although the mayor says the budget has been adopted and works under this budget. These were also matters that were written several times in the evening newspaper covering this area. In a public statement last week on TV Slovenia, Mrs Astrid Prašnikar, State Secretary from the Office for Local Self-Government, admitted that there were several irregularities in the municipality of Podlohnik. That's what she said. That's what I heard. At the same time, she stated that, given the current local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry does not have the authority to act. However, some solutions or events in the near past show that in some municipalities the ministry or state institutions have acted. If, for example, I only remember the Koper Congregation or the Market and some other. There may also be little indication that the mayor of the municipality is also the principal of the primary school and probably such an example of the administration of the municipality and all the records appearing in the newspaper do not have a positive effect on the young generation, who also sees this. The question is: How will the Ministry resolve the case you certainly know because the Secretary of State mentioned it? What can the Supervisory Committee, somehow waiting for it to perform the function entrusted to it by the Law on Local Self-Government, expect from your services or your ministry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member Sok! Anything you've said, I can confirm. It is true that this municipal council, or other bodies, does not operate in the municipality of Podlohnnik, that it does not meet, that it does not accept budgetary documents so that the municipality does not operate, that coordination between the authorities is poor and it is right to act. The current law on local self-government had a provision of 90.b., unfortunately the Constitutional Court in 2000 retained its validity. In 2003, and in October 2003, this provision was repealed. This provision was the legal basis for the dissolution of the municipal council and the recall of the mayor. The State Secretary has rightly said, as you stated, that, following the repeal of this decision in 2003, in October 2003, the State no longer has the option of disbanding the municipal council and calling the new elections or calling off the mayor. A new law must therefore be adopted. However, it is also possible to take limited action within the framework of the control right of the State over the municipalities. This limited action is, in fact, limited to a warning to the congregation to do so and to the congregation’s actions, but only on condition that the damage is caused as a threat to the life and health of the people or the environment. But the non-acceptance of the budget is not such a case, which means that the state cannot act directly on this basis. Therefore, it remains for us to fill an empty void after the application of the Constitutional Court decision repealing article 90.b of the Local Self-Government Act. The Ministry of the Interior has therefore drawn up a new law on local self-government, which is already in the parliamentary debate and in this law provides for the possibility of the State to take action in a manner in which, in a given case, the municipality of Podlodhnik would resolve the situation. The Constitutional Court did not object at that time to these measures, to the dissolution of the municipal council and to the recall of the mayor, but annulled this provision because there was no judicial protection We now foresee, in the new law on local self-government, similar measures, which we are also providing for in the applicable legislation, but we state very precisely the conditions laid down in the law, the criteria for when it is possible to act so strictly with judicial protection in the administrative court. The remedy for the situation is the adoption of a new law on local self-government. We wish it were in the shortest time. I am informed that this law will be discussed by the Internal Policy Committee at its next meeting. And there is a possibility that the law will be adopted at the next meeting of the National Assembly. On this basis, action will be possible. However, I should also say that there have been many contacts between the local government office and our ministry and this congregation to resolve this problem. Unfortunately, this has not worked so far. It is planned in a short week, two weeks, a new visit by the Ministry, the Office for Local Self-Government, together with the Ministry of Finance. It may agree on something at operational level primarily from the point of view of government money management in a way that neither meets budgetary rules nor the rules on local self-government. What will these arrangements be, this moment is too early to say, but certainly the finance ministry will try to act with us in this direction. That's all I can say for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u257	Just one sentence. But Mr. Minister, the implementation of a budget that is not available is an illegal act. If the budget has not been adopted, how can the mayor implement the budget?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u259	I agree with you. If you listened very carefully to me, you could understand that in the Local Self-Government Act there was a basis for action by the State in this case. Unfortunately, this basis has been annulled by a Constitutional Court decision and this basis has been re-established by the adoption of a new law on local self-government. However, I agree with you that such conduct, the implementation of a budget that is not adopted, is contrary to the law. There's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs will be asked the question by the rapporteur. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to raise a question to the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs concerning the issue of audit decisions by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs concerning beneficiaries of the law on victims of war violence. The Ministry of Labour has been issuing negative decisions in the framework of these audit decisions for some time, although they have been positively resolved at Stage I. It always gives reasons, but it is about gaining refugee status because the occupying party either made a violent move in Italy or in Germany. There were, of course, fires and the like that they had to move. In this regard, of course, these beneficiaries are now applying for rights. The Ministry of Labour in these audit decisions issues negative decisions, although positive ones were introduced at the first stage. And in such a way as to disregard the law as its dictates. What are those reasons? The reason is that the individual or family who was exiled because of the violence of the invaders did not participate actively in the partisan movement or NOB. It doesn't say anything in the law. It is stated as follows: "Article 2 of the Act on Victims of War Violence, by which two actual states are established, the first, when it comes to a person who was forcibly expelled from his home during the period of 6.4.1941 to 15.5.1945 for the purpose of carrying out retaliatory measures against the families of partisans, murdered hostages or for cooperation with the NOB." So, for any of these reasons, rather than retaliatory measures, they were banished. They are now in negative decision-making under the procedures, although positive decisions are being issued to some others who were in a totally symmetrical position when you were resettled. We believe that this is inappropriate, but especially when it comes to participants who are very old to be bullied in this way. I ask for an answer to justify the issuance of such audit decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u263	Thank you. I would answer this question as follows. The Ministry of Labour shall consistently implement the policy established by the National Assembly. With a novelty in 1999, and a consolidated text of the Law on Victims of War Violence, the National Assembly established such a dictatorship, which you yourself cited, in Article 2, paragraph 4. I would therefore say that the Ministry, in its statutory audit and appeal procedures, consistently respects the cited provision of the law and the status and rights of the victim of war violence, fugitives, exiles; it may recognise it to persons who, in the process, prove that they have been forcibly expelled from their homes for the purpose of exercising the retaliatory measures of the occupier or his associates. If the reasons or circumstances in the proceedings have not been established or it has been demonstrated that these persons have been expelled from their homes for other reasons, then the status of the victim of war violence on this basis cannot be recognised. Where only the fact that they were at any time during any period of life and were expelled is not legally relevant. I regret that this is such a dictatorship of this article, but it is consistent, according to our legal service, the definition of this law of war-violence sacrifices.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u265	No, Mr. Minister, the diction is perfectly fine, you know, but the decisions issued by the Ministry are not correct because they do not respect the diction. There is no need to collect any cumulative evidence whether he actively participated in the partisans or not. In particular, I have one decision where he has cooperated with the partisans and a negative decision has been issued because he has not actively cooperated. It's not written anywhere in the law, and such dictions are unacceptable. It is essential that the occupier has caused violence, that is to say that he has resettled this person violently because of the retaliatory measures or any measures taken by those inhabitants. And that's enough. I think such interpretation of the law is inappropriate. This is not just one decision, but it follows these decisions when this source is used at the first stage and then not anymore. Of course, then you travel them to an administrative dispute to ensure these rights. I believe that, given the age of these participants, the suffering they suffered during the war is not right and is not right and is, in fact, merely a postponement of obligations for a later period. For it is a clear doctrine, and I do not understand the reasons why your servants do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u267	Once again, I can ensure that the law, as prescribed and adopted in the National Assembly, is implemented. However, in order not to leave the matter in the middle of the road, as far as we have tried to effectively grant the status of victims of war and war violence, let me say that it was only in 2001 that 35,000 and more decisions were dealt with and resolved within the Ministry. It is said that a tremendous amount of effort has been made to ensure that as many people as possible who, according to the law on victims of war violence, have the opportunity to acquire this status, too. However, as far as it is, I have already told you, any decision that is not appropriate in your opinion, but we are always open because we have an open-door policy and that any citizen can either anonymously or in any way inform us and we will immediately proceed with the control process.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u268	Thank you very much. And the final question of today. Mr Ivan Mamić will present it to the Minister of the Information Society. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u269	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister a question from the Member States regarding frequencies. Under the Telecommunications Act, a competent agency should, in the event that, on the basis of an interested public response, determine that certain radio frequencies will not be available to all interested parties, make a public call for radio frequencies. Mr. Minister, I ask you: How many calls for radio frequencies have been made during your term of office and to whom have all radio frequencies been distributed? How many radio frequencies were distributed without a call for tender? When will the next public call for radio frequencies be made? I'd like to see you compare the data you're going to give to the data I have to see how they match. Despite the allegations made by the Ministry's representative at the petition commission's meeting, there was no call for frequency in March this year. Why, then, does the Agency not carry out at least two public tenders per year as provided for by law? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u271	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Mr Mamić, you correctly note that if a competent agency finds out from an interested public response, it is necessary to publish a call for radio broadcasting. So, as far as frequencies are concerned, if I answer your question now, during my term of office three public calls for free broadcasting channels or frequencies were issued, without a call for tender, no frequency was granted. To whom, the frequencies or channels have been allocated, or I can give you in writing or even after the session in the annex, I will not read all the frequencies because these two sheets are written in detail and I will hand them to you either here or in writing. With regard to the next public invitation to tender for free broadcasting frequencies, I can tell you that the Agency is not entirely independent of when this call can be made, but needs the consent of the broadcasting world and we expect, or today, such agreement of the broadcasting council to be given. We can tell you in the coming days whether and then this call will, of course, be possible now under the new law on electronic communications, in a short time. With regard to the question of why the Agency does not carry out at least two public tenders per year, I must tell you that, of course, such provisions are not in law that it should describe the frequency at least twice a year. Once again, the invitation to tender is due to be issued in a short time, and I can give you a list of assigned frequencies and channels today, but I can also, of course, in a slightly nicer form in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić, would you like the Minister to complete his reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u273	Thank you. I'd only ask if you'd give me that material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-17-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u274	Thank you very much. The materials will be exchanged. Dear Members, Madam Member, Prime Minister, Members - Members - we are all in the crowd, three men Members of Parliament and three women Members of the Government - Mr President of the Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, Madam Minister, on behalf of the National Assembly, I thank you very much for your answers, including all those who have participated in this, thank you very much for a nice and good night. So I conclude this item on the agenda and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. I interrupt this item on the agenda, because we will decide tomorrow on the proposals to hold a debate on the answers of ministers. Thank you. Good night.
