ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and others present! We continue the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's session is justified: Roberto Battelli, Franz Chebulj, Victory of the Elinčič nobles, Franz Kangler, mag. Blaze Kavčič, mag. Janez Kramberger for the start of the session, Rudolf Moge, Alojz Peterle, Maria Pozsonec and Joseph Školč from 17:00 p.m. From the beginning, I would like to remind you that at 4:20 p.m., the time is set for the opening of the vote on today's points, at 7 p.m., a festive meeting. Therefore, I ask that you take the scheduled time for each task seriously so that you can prepare the hall for the festive session. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft constitutional law (EPA 700/III). Proposal to initiate the procedure [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mrs. Maria Possonec is present [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u2	Looks like it's a mistake. I'm here and I'll be here all day.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u3	I see you already. I'm sorry. Maria Possonec is present at the sitting. Thank you so much for the heads-up. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amendments to Articles 90, 97, 99 and 170 of the Constitution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. At its 35th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly decided to initiate a procedure to amend Article 90 of the Constitution and to postpone the debate on the draft constitutional law and the decision on the proposal for the views of the Constitutional Commission to one of the following meetings. I give the floor to the representative of the government, Mrs Ksenija Mihovar, to give a further explanation of the draft constitutional law. May I have your attention and peace in the debate room? A representative of the government has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u4	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members! Allow me to stress, despite the various positions we have already heard in this National Assembly, which partly oppose the Government's proposal to amend the 90th Article of the Constitution, but I would like to reiterate, above all, the professional and comparative arguments that we have taken into account in the government when we have proposed a solution. I'm going to focus on the so-called human initiative. Already in the section preparing the Government's proposal for amendments to the Constitution, the question was raised as to whether, in a way, direct democracy in the absence of a human initiative was not narrowing down and whether it would not suggest that a solution should also be sought in this direction. Nevertheless, experts who participated in the working group on the preparation of the amendments assessed that this change required a more in-depth professional discussion, given that it is also not comparable in Europe. Only Switzerland knows this kind of human initiative, and it's on a level when it comes to a referendum on the constitution. The review of the solutions adopted in Switzerland on the basis of such a referendum has shown that they are sometimes not the best professional. In fact, the people's initiative eliminates the role of the National Assembly. The National Assembly is bound by the decision taken at the referendum. A professional question is therefore also raised as to how the procedure for the adoption of such a law in the national assembly is actually followed. Is it possible to adopt amendments to such a law? How can we change it later because it is an expression of human will? We therefore reiterate our call, or ask the National Assembly, to reconsider this proposed solution, which also came from the Constitutional Commission before your decision-making. Do we actually have such a system that we can also include this human initiative or referendum, which is thus mediated in decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u5	Thank you very much for this introductory explanation. The draft constitutional law was examined by the Constitutional Commission and made observations. Does the representative of the Constitutional Commission want to present his views? He won't, he won't. That is why I am moving on to the consideration of the views or the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to my colleague, Aloyz Sok, for the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u6	Dear President! Representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, nice to welcome you! Let me begin by finding, as in yesterday's debate, that again, as regards New Slovenia, we miss the Minister. We think he should be here between us, listening to arguments and discussing it with us, not simply missing him. So the current regulation of the referendum is very broad. We agree with that. We have a number of different bodies that can propose a referendum, which is why this proposal is an amended and supplemented Article 90 of the Constitution in this direction, in order to abolish the previous legislative referendum or, in other words, to say otherwise, to abolish the possibility for citizens and citizens to make prior corrections to the decisions of the National Assembly. This is a fundamental change in this part, which, as we have heard in the introduction, the government still advocates, and this is justified by the fact that no European country, other than Switzerland, has this in order, so to speak, that no country has a previous legislative referendum. And we wonder why Slovenia would not have it if Switzerland had it so arranged. The referendum is a correction of the decision, the national assembly, that is, those political decisions in Parliament taken by Members. However, as far as the previous legislative referendum is concerned, in our view, it is the previous correction of those decisions for which groups of citizens or citizens expect to be adopted by the National Assembly and for some reason they are not adopted. In fact, it is the fact that people's will can correct parliamentary political decision in both cases. In the case of a subsequent legislative referendum, after the legislative procedure has been completed in the previous legislative referendum, before or during the legislative procedure. In Novi Slovenija we stress the need to maintain both forms of referendum, because we need to be aware that we have a relatively short time of democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. The previous legislative referendum means that people's will is realized by a legal initiative, that is, a so-called preliminary voter statement. Throughout the short period of Slovenian democracy, it has been shown that the stronger the ruling coalition is, the more I can put it, the bold the decisions are and the more likely the initiatives are, even in terms of previous legislative referendums. We believe that this is to be expected in the future, regardless of the composition of the coalitions, because Slovenian politicians seem to be inclined to do so and to such a way of leading the country. They should be aware of this and, for at least a period of time, retain this constitutional guardian in the form of a transitional legislative referendum. In Novi Slovenija, we are not in favour of changing the constitution because of the problems that the ruling suit has, in fact, must be the other way around; the power must change, not the constitution. The area has to adapt to the stop. The Constitution, however, must mean the sacrament in legislation and we cannot just change it as it seems to someone. The possibility of combining certain issues in the referendum already lays down the current law and, on the basis of this law, the Constitutional Court, which, in fact, has been doing so regularly in the last period. This also does not require amending the Constitution. So far, however, referendum decision has been blocked in some way and, in our view, by constantly amending the law on referendum and human initiative. I don't know. Until now, this marriage has been amended several times. However, when it seems that this is not enough, part of direct decision-making is simply trying to be abolished, although in practice there were no large and numerical requirements for irrelevant previous referendums. Forgetting, of course, the request for a referendum on the return of church forests, which was prevented by the Constitutional Court. On the basis of the previous referendum, a Slovenian state was actually created, we had plebiscite, and for that reason, Slovenians should leave this form of decision as a constitutional category intact. There were then only four referendums on the basis of the previous legislative procedure in Slovenia. This was a referendum on TET 3. We ask in Novi Slovenija what would actually happen if we did not have a referendum on TET 3 and this mega-Romanian energy facility would also be built on assumptions that were there. Today, we would have much bigger problems with the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, and for the construction of TET 3, we would have spent huge billions, more than a billion German marks. Then we had a preliminary legislative referendum on the return of investment for the development of telephony. Here I should point out that if the National Assembly were willing, and the government could settle this area without a referendum, and you were not willing. Despite the fact that it was clear to all that Slovenian citizens had built up the Slovenian telecommunications system with their funds, that they had made a huge contribution and that they had every right to have the country privatise Telekom, also to expect some compensation from this title. There was no wish, so a preliminary legislative referendum was convened, of course on the basis of 40,000 citizens' signatures, and in the referendum people made a fair decision as is right. But once again, I could have done it to the National Assembly if I wanted to. At the same time, at the referendum we also had a statement on how Slovenian railways should be organised in the future. We had another preliminary legislative referendum. It's about trading on Sundays. This is also a question that the National Assembly could settle if you listened to the profession if you listened to the workers if the opposition were respected, but unfortunately that was not the case. However, the arguments for the abolition of the previous legislative referendum, as we can hear them, are often the following. Firstly, some say that the previous legislative referendum is a Slovenian speciality, but at the same time we have heard here today that it is not really a special thing, that they also have it in Switzerland, which is a long-standing democratic state, and we like to commend Slovenians very much on how well we have solved the issue of democracy. That is why, of course, we propose to keep this as a democratic norm in the future, not to say that it is a Slovenian specialty. But if it is, it is not, then in some areas we can also be Slovenians before other countries of the European Union. Furthermore, we have heard a number of opinions or claims that the Institute of the previous legislative referendum is being abused for purposes for which it has not been designated. On behalf of New Slovenia, I firmly claim that this is not the case. Humanity can never and never abuse power. On the contrary, the authorities may abuse the people of most of these previous legislative referendums, and in fact, it was based on the signatures of 40,000 citizens and not on the request of Members. That the issue of the referendum in Slovenia is poorly regulated will not hold up either. We argue that, in fact, the issue of referendums in Slovenia is very well regulated and that there is no need to correct or change the country for this reason. It is true, however, that the Institute of Referendum in European Parliamentary Democracies is generally rarely used. But we agree with that. The data show that, for example, only two referendums have been held in Austria since 1945. However, we need to ask ourselves why it is that in Slovenia there is so much interference with referendums, although in Novi Slovenija we estimate that the number of these four previous legislative referendums in more than ten years of the independent Slovenian country is not much. Nevertheless, it shows that the ruling policy, the ruling government does not respect the will of citizens, does not take into account the opinion of the profession, and in all such cases it is only possible to call upon citizens and citizens, in all these cases, in the face of the arrogance we have witnessed, to decide in a direct way and to express their will. We have also been able to hear in Parliament that the majority polls show that people are expecting constitutional changes on the referendum, which is what they expect to see some kind of restriction in this area. I have to say, we don't believe these polls. In our view, these polls are in some way organized, because it is abnormal and illogical for the people to propose and require that they not be able to express themselves directly in a referendum on fundamental issues concerning all citizens and citizens. And another argument or two. The claim that human will or referendum does not express human will. I wouldn't even comment on that. I think that's a completely depressed argument. What else should human will be expressed if not a referendum? Or should the opinion of this House, or should the individual of politicians, express human will if the referendum does not? Well, there's another argument he's holding. The referendums are expensive. They cost a lot. In doing so, however, I would like to point out that some of the wrong decisions would continue to be much more. I mentioned the construction of TET3 earlier. If we were building this TET3 thermo-energy block, of course, such a solution would be a lot, a lot of attitudes, like the then referendum, which was over 400 million Slovenian tolars. Restricting the referendum leads exclusively to one point, that is to restrict the rights of citizens and citizens of our country. We understand that this is in the interests of the ruling majority. Of course, it is easier to rule in such a way that politics does not take into account the needs and demands of people. The envisaged change in the constitution, as indicated by the government, is not going in the right direction, but in the wrong way. It goes in that direction, which indicates a reduction in fundamental human rights and freedoms, this is codecision within its own country. It is about human rights, which do not have a price, that we have heard a lot about in this House in recent years, and it is also up to us to end the previous legislative referendum. In addition to the elections, the referendum is the only form of direct decision-making between citizens and citizens, so in New Slovenia we strongly oppose that the Constitution is changing in this area. One of the experts who participated in the Constitutional Commission wrote, among other things, that is Dr. Kavčič, "The previous legislative referendum is a means to which the government block has no influence. It represents an important auxiliary form of separation of power and a relatively effective means of opposition and non-parliamentary parties." Finally, the Republic of Slovenia, we must be aware of this, is in a transitional period between the former totalitarian social system based on the monopoly of the Communist Party and the new emerging system of constitutional democracy. Therefore, the basic objective of the referendum, including the previous legislative referendum, was also introduced into the Constitution to prevent any possibility of restoring the former totalitarian system. In New Slovenia we will strongly vote against the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Miran Potrč has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In addition to the election, the referendum is the only form of direct decision-making between citizens and citizens. It is one of the forms of the exercise of the authority of the people. But it's good. Above all, in all parliamentary democracies, the most important form of expression is the direct will of citizens and citizens, general, direct and secret elections. However, this principle does not apply to the referendum, as it is not known in many European parliamentary democracies. As a rule, however, if they know him, they use him much more restrictively and he is very different. As far as elections are concerned, the general principle applies as regards the referendum very, very large differences. Furthermore, under Article 3 of the Constitution, the voice of the people in our country is also realized through the legislative, executive and judicial branches of power. The referendum is therefore only one of the democratic forms of declaration of human will, and it is not unconditional and necessarily the most appropriate and most quality. When and how the referendum is used to provide democratic content in addition to democratic form, it is therefore a matter of constitutional and legal regulation. I myself was one of the co-signors of the proposal now in force on the referendum and the people's initiative, which we have drawn up and tabled on the basis of the adopted constitution, by individual Members and Members from most of the parliamentary groups. To read therefore to me personally or to my client that it is against the referendum may, of course, be unobjective or pure stupidity or, I would say, false accusations that simply do not hold. Dr. Kavčič participated with us at the time, who was also the most important expert in the preparation of this law. There were many different views on how to fix it. And our common assessment at the time was to get it fixed in a maximistic way. That's how we consciously arranged it at the time. Since then, almost ten years have passed, and practice has shown how this arrangement can be good and necessary, and where its shortcomings are likely to be. It may be possible to insist on everything that has been decided so far, but it may be realistic and seem necessary. In order to see that the amended provisions would not be contrary to European practice, I would like to draw your attention to the study or review carried out by our research centre with a view to comparing the arrangements for a referendum in ten European countries, which is legislative. A special study is also for the constitutional referendum, but this part is not important this time. Those who will be corrected will believe that the following can be found from this comparative study: The previous legislative referendum, which raises the most questions for us, is not known by any country. None of the countries surveyed know him. Anyone who claims something else is telling the truth or not ready to read this study. He is known by Switzerland for changing the Constitution, but not for the legislative referendum. In all countries, in all countries, there is a limited range of issues that cannot be decided at the referendum. We had this, but because our constitution did not provide for such options, the Constitutional Court deleted those restrictions that we had. In all countries, proposals are very restrictively identified. Citizens can only propose a referendum in Switzerland and Italy. Others shall be the candidates of the President of the Republic or Parliament with the necessary qualified majority or government. Nationals and citizens only in Switzerland and Italy. In many countries, the quorum of participants or the quorum of those voting for a decision is provided for in order for the referendum to be valid. In Italy, we know that participation by at least one more than half of all electoral beneficiaries is necessary in order for the result of the referendum to be valid. In Denmark, for the rejection of the law - and there is only a vote on the rejection of the law - there must be at least 30% of all electoral beneficiaries, regardless of how many they have come to the electorate. In Ireland, however, there must be at least one third of all registered in the electoral directory in order for the referendum decision to be valid. In short, this is also a practice that Europe knows. Finally, in many countries, Finland, Norway, Sweden, it is perhaps difficult to say that these would be non-democratic countries, the referendum for Parliament is not binding, but is, above all, a consultative referendum. I do not say that it must be so arranged for us, but I say that the debate on the constitutional regulation of the referendum is not a debate aimed at reducing democracy, but a debate is aimed at assessing what has brought us good and bad experience so far in relation to referendums and whether it is right or wrong to change anything. I think it would finally be right to talk about it because no matter how real or untrue the polls are, no matter what people think or not, but mostly these polls show that people would want a different order. Even at the last referendum, we heard that the National Assembly was not prepared to accept any changes, so we have such a referendum. Please let's finally find out who in this national council is not willing to accept anything, but who is willing to accept something, so that we know where the desire is to make things more rational, where is the desire to keep things the way they are. And the fact that they remain as they are is because it is only natural that those who cannot obtain the necessary majority in elections, in order to be in power, have a desire through such a way of referendum as we have to ensure that the exercise of power is made difficult for those who have received the majority in elections, and with a minority that is, as a rule, a minority, larger or smaller in us, decides in referendums, except in three referendums, thank God who were right, I think, to plebiscite, to enter the EU and to enter NATO, where participation and result were, in any way, unique and something completely different from all others. In this study, among other things, the following are written down literally: [[Quote]] : "The referendum as a method of decision-making does not have a monopoly on democratic decision-making, so it cannot be evaluated unanimously. There are cases of his abuse and the possibility of manipulating him in order to achieve political objectives." This is, please, a quote from the study, not my claim. "The use of the referendum should take into account all the advantages it offers for democratic decision-making, but also the limitations that are objectively contained or derived from it. If the referendum is to be an effective form of direct democracy, it should only be used exceptionally for the most important political issues, but it is not appropriate to decide on very difficult professional and complex issues, especially if they cannot be drawn up with transparent and understandable alternative solutions." Here's the end of the quote. Above all, it is the responsibility of all those who participate or cooperate in the decision-making process of the referendum to ensure that the contents of the referendum are such that it is constitutionally permissible and clear that everyone participating in the referendum will know the consequences of the vote it will give. And from all the above aspects, more referendums have been held so far, according to my opinion, especially the last, certainly poorly and irresponsiblely prepared. The options and consequences of the decisions taken and the like have been misrepresented. This is also demonstrated by comments on what this referendum means. Such a referendum, once again in my opinion, cannot contribute to democratic conditions, the rule of law and respect for constitutional arrangements. And that's bad. The legal profession, European democratic practice and the practice of our referendums, as well as the surveys, show that certain constitutional changes would be necessary and useful. Some of these are proposed through the views of the Constitutional Commission; we support them in the United List of Social Democrats. We believe that they are minimally possible, in my opinion, they would be even more useful, but since there is little willingness to do anything in the field of the referendum to be manipulated in the future, I fear that any more of this will be accepted. When I say "manipulated," of course I don't think they manipulate voters and voters. They can't manipulate, they can only be manipulated. They manipulate those who ask unclear questions, manipulate those who explain the untruths, what the decision to or against practice will mean directly, who are not willing to objectively inform people of the problems that make it a referendum and so forth. And all of this happens very often, for reasons I've already said. Therefore, in the United List of Social Democrats, we would like at least to open the way for debates on constitutional changes in this area. We are aware that any change will need a new two-thirds majority later in the law. Of course, there are, but we know, those present, if we are all here to be an absolute two-thirds majority, but I think it would be right to support this issue. If we do not open it, I would be extremely grateful to the representatives of the media to say, for once, who is the one who would be willing to propose changes, who is not to say that the national assembly as a whole is to blame, that we have the referendums arranged as we actually have them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by counterpart Saša Peče.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u10	Respectable present. If he had lived in the past, if he had lived in the past system, he would probably have been able to confirm to the speaker in front of me who only acknowledges one truth and, of course, other arguments and other options does not allow and interprets them as lies. But I think that's what manipulation is all about. To say that if someone disagrees with a government representative or government policy that he is manipulating or misleading the public is, of course, improper in the kindest form of word. The fact is that it is quite logical that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to limit the referendum powers, to try to limit the forms of the referendum and to try to restrict the applicants or qualified candidates who can initiate individual referendums. In particular, given that so far almost all the referendums have produced a result that casts a bad light on the decision of the government or the government majority. It is probably quite understandable, either by a government representative or by a government, if we come from their theory that in most cases people should not listen at all and that they imagine constitutional provisions on equality and the power of the people in their own right. In the National Party, however, we are convinced that in the Republic of Slovenia we should still notify the Constitution, which in its provision says that it has the authority of the people in Slovenia, and that we should not ignore it and should not interpret it in our own way or in the interests of our political party. In Slovenia, the authority of the people is exercised directly and indirectly. In the middle of this country's national council. But whenever someone's in the middle, there are different choices that people probably want. And so far, my words have confirmed almost all the referendums that have put government proposals on their heads and have demanded a different regime, especially a regime that will be to the extent of citizens and citizens. That other form of government of the people or authority of the people is called a direct democracy, during which it appears in a positive form primarily a referendum. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, of course, you should not restrict the right of citizens and citizens to decide on the most important things within our country. The fact is, and I do not want to compare the weight of the people with the weight of the legislative branch of power, but you are continuing with your strategy to destroy any possible debate. So at the beginning of your term of office, you tried to change the rules of procedure through which you would destroy the role of those Members who do not come from governmental types. In today's proposal to change the constitution, you are trying to destroy the role of the people who make their decision at the referendum. Both the essential innovations you are proposing in the government proposal or as you support them in government parties are, of course, inappropriate in our opinion. We should not, in the National Assembly, sincerely hope that we will not allow the rule of people to be reduced in any way, because our country, in one way or another, does not have enough rights or their fundamental rights are violated and their fundamental rights are violated. The proposal for an amendment under code 1 or which can be labelled by number 1 is a clear determination that, in the constitutional order and later also in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, we know only a subsequent legislative referendum, very much reminds us of a known theory or the setting up of a dilemma, whether we will repair the damage or prevent the damage. The problem of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the government majority in this national council is that you decided to try to repair the damage without preventing the damage. With a previous referendum, as the name just says, people are trying to prevent damage from occurring. With a subsequent referendum, that is, a referendum that takes place only after the adoption of a certain law, the damage can only be rectified. According to our assessment, it would be far more useful to allow both forms to continue, that is to say that we are trying to correct or prohibit the damage in general, rather than allowing ourselves exclusively the possibility that only a later decision can be taken on a particular matter. But of course this is the question of the purpose of the proposed constitutional changes proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As I said in the introduction to the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, there is a tendency and the content proposed by the Government to understand, even if we are based on the government's way of action, that is that no one in this country, not the opposition, nor the citizens, nor the professional public, nor any other public should be involved in the functioning of the executive and legislative branch of power. Of course, we do not agree with this in the National Party. If we trust people so much and appeal to people every four years that we are worthy of their trust all together, all political parties, then of course it would make sense to tell people that we also trust them so much that at times when politics is not able to find the right solutions, we trust them with their decision. Not only should citizens and citizens be exploited during the pre-election campaign when voting votes are held, but it would also make sense for people to be trusted in other areas. The second change the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to introduce into the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia is in the area of the reduction of the number of entities entitled to the initiative to initiate the referendum. This, of course, is irrelevant, according to our assessment. Any decommissioning of entities, on the other hand, is also a violation of rights. And I do not believe that in this period of development in which it is currently located, Slovenia needs to be deprived of its rights at any stage of its decision-making. However, I am convinced that many referendums could indeed be avoided in this country if the willingness of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was to do so. If the government of the Republic of Slovenia did not blindly follow only the vision of capital and narrow political orientation. If there were communication, acceptance of the views of others in this forum, then there would not be so many referendums in this country. Unfortunately, however, the referendum has become one of the possible forms of disagreement with government policy. And you have to admit that our country's referendums have so far been exclusively when we talked about important topics. When you have made decisions in the government majority or within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not only that they will be negative in the short term, but also have long-term negative consequences. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the proposed amendments to the Constitution in the field of referendum. We estimate that they are detrimental to our country, but especially to citizens and citizens. However, we would be willing to consider this in our parliamentary group, and we have offered this to both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the other parliamentary groups in this National Assembly if we could find a different change in the field of the referendum. This is if we could agree that the so-called referendum day should be implemented for a year or a year. In this way, the referendums in our country, even if they were more in a year, would take place only for one day. This would, of course, try to solve the dilemma of financing referendums, which, of course, I think, is also attracted to hair. It is precisely the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, those for which citizens do not even know, the decisions of this National Assembly, those decisions for which citizens do not even know usually cost much more than the implementation of one referendum. But when it comes to the referendum, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is initially always trying to focus attention on the financing or cost of the referendum. But the stories that cost this country a lot more than the referendums are, of course, much more. Let me draw attention only to the story, completely mistaken, of buying a plane - a government aircraft that has stood at that stage as far as all the referendums in this country will stand for the next hundred years. But the government of the Republic of Slovenia has not once said, the plane is not necessary, the amount is high. Now it's a year and a half after the plane, and we see that we're selling it with a big loss without ever driving it under the government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I find it misleading to talk about the costs of the referendum irrelevant. The costs of the referendum do not even reach the knees of the other costs which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia causes recklessly and according to our assessment inappropriately. We will not support the National Party for Amendments to the Constitution in this area. Once again, we offer because we believe that the amendment proposal will not be accepted for the government to consider the so-called referendum day of the year. This would not only ensure greater participation and greater information, but, after our assessment, we would approach a way that would show more than unequivocally the will of citizens and citizens. I sincerely hope or ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consider this proposal from the National Party. However, we will not support the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u11	Thank you. France Tsukati has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The debate on the referendum must be based on Article 3 of the Constitution, according to which the people have power in Slovenia. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections, and of course by referendum directly. Thus, in the ruling hierarchy, the people are at the top, not the national assembly, not the government, not the president of the state, and not the constitutional court - the people. But the people can exercise power directly, as we said, only through a referendum. Since the referendum is the highest form of decision-making in the Republic of Slovenia, this national assembly must also be very reserved and very respectful when setting and modifying referendum rules. We have before us a proposal by the Constitutional Commission that the preliminary legislative referendum should be lifted, or that a preliminary referendum should be possible only if the national assembly would not want to adopt the law submitted by the voters in terms of the people's initiative. In this case, the National Assembly could attach a competitive version of the law. We find the proposal acceptable. Nor does the Slovenian Democratic Party oppose the proposals contained in the third, fourth and fifth points of view. However, we strongly oppose attempts to radically limit the content of the referendum and to place extremely difficult conditions for its success. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative in Article 16 already imposes a substantive restriction on the referendum. He says: "If the content of the request for a referendum is contrary to the Constitution, or if the adoption or enforcement of the law or the rejection of the law could result in unconstitutional consequences, it is required that the Constitutional Court decide to do so." So the law is in force. When we adopted this provision years ago, she seemed very innocent and self-sufficient. Of course, the referendum should not have anti-constitutional consequences, we said in 2001 and confirmed the amendment. For we did not expect the rule of the left hand option to be misused so persistently and so relentlessly. In all the referendums, we continued to listen to the evidence that we were violating human rights and that government parties were constantly blackmailing the referendum from the Constitutional Court. Universal and inalienable human rights are a serious matter. In the general declaration of human rights adopted by the United Nations in 1948 and in the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, all protocols are valid, these rights are well listed. However, in their categorical opposition to the referendums so far, and in accordance with the needs of the daily policy, government Members have included everything possible among these rights. For example, the desire of a healthy fertile woman after artificial insemination, the desire of a capitalist to limit the exploitation of shops, the desire of a foreigner to a permanent residence. And so on. No international instrument or convention of these wishes shall fall within human rights. It mentions, for example, the following rights. Everyone has the right to work, to just and satisfactory working conditions and to protection against unemployment. Everyone who works has the right to a just and satisfying wage that guarantees him and his family a life worth living. That's human rights. This is reflected in the general declaration of human rights adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations. How many workers we have with a minimum wage that they can't afford, to them and their families, are worth living. And there are also these rights. And let's say the right as stated in this general declaration. Everyone has the right to education, which must at least be at the initial stage free of charge. How much do school supplies cost per year for a nine-year-old child? And then there's school in nature, and there's all kinds of extras, and there's all kinds of contributions, and so on. How nice it would be, ladies and gentlemen, if the government coalition had the will to realize not only the wishes of some stakeholders, but also universal human rights, which are indeed internationally recognised and required. The last referendums prove alive. In such an atmosphere, however, any restriction of the referendum content means opening the door to the restraint for a severe violation of article 3 of the Constitution. As long as there is an abuse of political power that violates laws, constitutions and regulations by a large majority of the votes in the National Assembly, any possibility of restricting the referendum can be fatal. The referendums can be rationalised and time-limited. For example, all the referendums at once a year on a referendum day, as my speaker has already mentioned. However, it is pointless and unnecessary to limit the referendum content. The decision taken at the referendum may also be judged by the Constitutional Court, annulled, or requested a change or a different solution to the problem, just as it may assess and repeal the legislative provisions adopted in the National Assembly. However, the Constitutional Court cannot prejudge the outcome of the referendum, as no one can, so it cannot continue to decide or conclude that there will be or will be no unconstitutional consequences, that there will be or will be no difficult remedial consequences for the country. On each referendum issue, we can say that there will be unconstitutional or difficult remedial consequences for the country. Everyone's. This will happen once if the initiative at the referendum is adopted, and once again if the initiative is rejected. Therefore, if we had taken the view that the referendum could not be negotiated on such issues, we should not have a referendum on Slovenia's independence or a referendum on Slovenia's accession to the European Union, because the failure of these referendums would certainly have serious remedial consequences for the country. Restricting the content to be decided at the referendum, as well as making it difficult or preventing a referendum, is very harmful for the country. In a parliamentary system where the National Assembly appoints a government, in the event of a large number of positions, there will be a merger between the government majority of the national assembly and the government itself. This clears the gap between the legislative and executive branches of power, a separation that becomes dangerously unnecessary or undesirable. And the executive branch of power becomes arbitrary, because few numerous opposition can control it. In such a situation, however, the importance of the referendum is outstanding, which is the only one who can control and control, at least indirectly, government will. The division of power means balance and control over the branches of government. These are not separated from the walls, but connected to the bridges, said Prof. Dr. Lovro Sturm a long time ago. The purpose of this division of power is not to allow each of them total freedom, total will, but rather to control and control one another, so as to prevent absolute power. In this respect, therefore, the referendum is an extremely important correctional and last guarantee of democracy. That is why the Constitution places him in the very top of the power hierarchy. In Slovenia, the authority of the people is primarily exercised directly by a referendum. So in the Slovenian Constitution. Strange things have been happening with us these past few years. In the case of a procedure, the government or the government majority of the national assembly shall be placed over the rules of procedure and, in the case of a referendum, the people and shall indicate to them what they may or may not decide. The Constitutional Court assumes a legislative function and sets its decisions over the Constitution. A company of economic monopoly is established which announces political action and thus, according to its capital power, also the management of economic, financial and tax policy, past the National Assembly and past the Ministry of Economy or Government. And once again, there's a referendum as the last guarantee of democracy, and that's why it's probably becoming very disturbing for someone. Ladies and gentlemen, if our amendment is not adopted to delete the second paragraph, then we Slovenian Democrats are resolutely opposed to any changes to the Constitution - changes aimed at clearly disposing of the referendum initiative and thereby taking away the only lever of the direct political influence. However, if you are able to change the constitution according to your own standards, then be so honest that the constitutional provision under which the people have power over us will be amended to read: In the Republic of Slovenia you have capital and from it a constitutional court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Franci Rokavec has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party, we were never prepared to take or reduce the powers of the National Assembly and, of course, of the State Council. At the 15th extraordinary meeting of November last year, we supported the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the 90th Article of the Constitution, which also received sufficient support from the National Assembly. We have not supported the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 97, 99 and 170 in the Slovenian People's Party, as we have advocated a restrictive approach to changing our Constitution from the very beginning. Part of the position of the Constitutional Commission on the draft constitutional law amending Article 90 relating to the amendment of the definition of a legislative referendum in a way that is only to be defined as a subsequent one was at the outset somewhat controversial for us. However, in the parliamentary group, it is estimated that the solution that foresees that the National Assembly will first carry out its legislative task is meaningful. The participation of citizens and citizens, i.e. a statement of direct democracy, should be maintained or supplemented by a provision which constitutes a call for a referendum on the law submitted by voters. In the SLS Group, we support the Institute of Human Initiative within Article 90, and we believe that an important institute for people's participation is in the legislative process. As has already been said, we support part of the position of the Constitutional Commission, which defines the referendum only as a follow-up. However, we must express our reservations to the second paragraph of the first position of the Constitutional Commission, which provides for the establishment of provisions to regulate the cases or circumstances under which the call for a referendum will be restricted. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already highlighted in our Group's proposal on draft constitutional laws, which we forwarded to the Constitutional Commission on 26 November 2003, the restraint of the second paragraph of the first position of the Constitutional Commission, as we have stated, that the appointment of direct decision-making rights should be re-examined. In fact, if this provision remains in the second paragraph of Article 90, we can rightly ask ourselves, according to practice so far, whether there will then be any referendum in that country at all. In addition, of course we can and will be present at various exercises and manipulations between the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court or I am also explaining the individual referendum initiative for the subsequent legislative referendum. With regard to the financial implications, we also believe that restricting the subsequent legislative referendum is unacceptable. In fact, in that case, the National Assembly does everything. However, if the ruling majority does not manage the necessary consensus or cooperation with arguments coming from a minority, it is, of course, necessary to enable the establishment of an ex-legislative referendum without restrictions. In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that this paragraph also represents an additional reduction in the possibility that people can decide directly. The existing regulation provides that the constitutionality of the referendum question is decided by the Constitutional Court, which is why we assess that the second paragraph of the first position is unnecessary. The referendum, however, represents the institution of democratic regulation as an opportunity for direct decision-making of the people. In our Group of Members, we believe that the restriction defined by that part of the position is unacceptable. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we assess that it is essential that the relevant proponents set out in the existing Constitution do not change. In line with the position adopted by the Constitutional Commission, arrangements are maintained for the National Assembly to hold a referendum on the law at the request of 40,000 voters, a third of Members or the Council of State. On this occasion, I would like to point out that a editorial error occurred in the first position of the Constitutional Commission, which lists the initiators for the referendum as cumulative instead of an alternative. There is no doubt that this is a editorial error, which must be corrected as a result of possible misinterpretation. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to the 1st position of the Constitutional Commission. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support a position that preserves everything through the constitution of certain candidates for the referendum, since we have opposed from the outset any changes that would reduce the competence of both the national assembly and the state council. We must not forget that between the three branches of government, only the legislative body is the one that is loved and thus the representative body of all citizens and citizens. With any reduction or even withdrawal of powers, the legislative branch of power is, therefore, in some way also deprived of the vote of citizens and citizens. In the Group of Members, we believe that lowering the level of parliamentary democracy in this area would be unacceptable and unacceptable to our party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u15	Thank you. Igor Štemberger has the floor for the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we remain in a negative position to propose amendments to the Constitution, which inadvertently violates citizens' rights to referendum decision. We consider the proposal to be an attempt by the government to silence once and for all the direct will of the people, which, in particular, has been particularly intense in the mandate of this government as the last defender against arrogant rule, which does not take into account the opinion of the opposition, experts, let alone citizens. Such a rule has turned Slovenia into a country of referendums where citizens are more or less successful in defending themselves against unacceptable decisions by the ruling coalition. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that there have been many issues that have been decided at referendums in recent years, inappropriate and too professional to burden citizens with them. On the other hand, the weight of more than 40,000 citizens remains that they express their disagreement by requiring a referendum to be convened, which gives a clear signal that the government does not rule well. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we stress that the current regime for referendum decision-making in Slovenia is entirely appropriate if there is a political culture that does not exploit the Institute of Referendum until disability. And if we could raise our hands today in the National Assembly, I'd like to change the constitution to guarantee this political culture. However, we will by no means support a change in the Constitution, which would, precisely because of the lack of it, distort the direct will of the citizens to decide at the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich is responsible for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u18	In Slovenia, we have special arrangements and special experience with referendums that are hardly comparable to any country, so it is necessary to start thinking a long time ago about changing both the Constitution in this area and the law on referendums and human initiative. This time, the proposal to amend the constitutional regulation of the legislative referendum is first of all to address the legal and political problems created by the Institute of the previous referendum and, of course, secondly to prevent the abuse of referendum initiatives to impede the legislative work of the National Assembly, which is also one of the major problems. However, we are convinced that we must do so in a way that will mean regulation and will not reduce the direct influence of voters and voters or, in other words, there will be no reduction in the standard of direct democracy. It is more than clear, and the profession has also made it very clear, after lengthy discussions, that the current constitutional regime is inadequate, which has led to significant problems and complications in practice so far. It is true, however, that these problems cannot be fully attributed to the constitutional regime, but also to the constitutional order which the Constitutional Court dealt with. And, of course, we also have a task, the government had already drafted in 2001 the first draft of a law on referendum and human initiative or changes, but because of the inadequate majority of this, it was not possible to amend or adopt this law. As it is said, the implementation of the previous legislative referendum has been particularly problematic. This type of legislative referendum is only an exception and opens up a number of political and legal problems in other countries. From analyses and statistics it is clear that this previous referendum has also been used most of the time. The incentive or requests for the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum was significantly lower, even in the case of the referendum actually carried out, the relationship was in favour of the previous one. The previous referendum has caused a number of problems and probably need not be specifically mentioned. It has also been shown that this form of legislative referendum can make it possible to abuse the Institute of Referendum. Here I speak very clearly in cases where there is a delay in the legislative process, we have not been able to adopt a number of laws for this reason in the National Assembly at a certain time because these requirements were for such referendums. Certain deviations related to the legislative referendum also show an extremely small number of constituencies collected in some cases when the requests were made. You also know this, it was an obvious manoeuvre in delaying Parliament's legislative initiative. A comparative legal review of the legislative referendum also shows that in most EU Member States a legislative referendum is to be held after the adoption of the law on Parliament and before its entry into force. So it's an ex-post and legislative referendum when voters are indisputably aware of how the old assembly has arranged, what consequences such an adopted law could have for them, for the state, and decide whether to confirm it or not. Such a referendum is without prejudice to the legislative function of Parliament, which should be independent. And it has already been said here that in Slovenia people exercise authority directly and through elected representatives, so Members have to carry out their work in accordance with the Constitution and the electorate will only find out later whether such a law is so problematic for them that it is impossible to enforce it and can be rejected in this way. Therefore, the Institute of the previous referendum is hereby lifting these proposals, which, in our view, also eliminates all theoretical and practical problems in relation to such referendums. Of course, simply deleting the previous referendum would be a significant reduction in the standard of direct democracy. That is why we have decided and proposed a proper legislative referendum instead of such a referendum. and in the same way that it has been said several times that a referendum can be a law adopted by a national assembly, or a law passed by voters. This case has already been mentioned as Switzerland and we think it would be suitable for the Slovenian situation. For a little while. The essence of the legislative referendum is, in our view, that voters decide on the proposal already made and just before it enters into force. If such an arrangement is adopted, voters will finally be able to decide on issues that, as they will be enshrined in the law and if they are voted on, the solutions will also apply and will be, mandatory, as they will be adopted. Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia believe that changes are necessary if we are to ensure European comparability, consolidate the legislative role of the National Assembly and address the uncertainties created by the current regime. The proposed views follow the thinking that we do not need a previous referendum, which is a speciality - this is what we are talking about - in our legislative process. The proposed positions seek a medium, reasonable and internationally comparable way of addressing the legal content, such as human rights, the extraordinary needs of the state, state finances, which should not be able to present a legislative referendum. This has already been discussed at the time of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, however, consideration is given to the role of the same Constitutional Court in assessing the admissibility of a legislative referendum on the content of the law. In addition, the proposed positions state and thus raise questions such as the time-limit for the re-election of the referendum when the question is already addressed, the way in which the outcome should be determined, whether the outcome should be determined only by valid votes, as it were said, and the way in which the vote and the outcome of the vote in the simultaneous vote on the proposal of the public initiative and against the proposal of the national assembly, which could also be a possible form for the implementation of the referendum, whose answers would be able to be clarified by constitutional text in the next stage of the constitutional amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft constitutional law and the views of the Constitutional Commission. Mag. Janez Pettych as the first discusser has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u20	The referendum in our country has two roles. So one is a preliminary referendum, which means some kind of possibility of a legal initiative directly by the people, and the other means a confirmation, which means a correction of the representative authority. In view of the thinking of some groups, some might argue that some advocate the intensification of that work, that is, the authority of the people, that is, the direct authority of the people of the Constitution. This, in our thinking and in my opinion, is not fitting for a number of reasons. Firstly, because this practice we have has proved to be good and in no way problematic. And secondly, because our experience with democracy, both directly and indirectly, in the past has not really erased this historical memory. Of course, some of these things are disturbing because they have found that people have different thinking with direct decision - making. All those referendums that have in fact rejected the adoption of the law mean that there is no confidence in the ruling of the elite in its decision-making. That means non-trust. And now we want to oppose it. If the people have chosen such a solution by majority will, then this must be accepted. So it's a confidential matter. Thus, we hear the comments of the referendums at which the people decided differently from just the grassroots elite. That people think differently. But if we think carefully about these statements, especially at the last referendum, then we find that some can think instead of the people, that on behalf of the people they speak all kinds of insatiableness and stupidity. It is unacceptable that the round of candidates for the referendum should be narrowed down and that the possibility of a legislative initiative directly by the electorate should be strengthened. Why would we limit that to them? If there are any objections to the costs of the referendums, it is possible to do so with the current possibilities of electronic voting or with the different organisation of the referendums, which has already been mentioned, once or twice a year. These comparisons with Europe or European countries are also not all viable. Look, countries have very different arrangements. But if you look at what they've done so far, how they've changed, they haven't gone in the direction of unifying the solution. The Swiss maintain their system, claim it is good for them, even though comparisons elsewhere or these referendums are otherwise arranged, but do not want to, do not try to change it. It suits them because they play a major role in direct decision-making, direct democracy. In the light of technological developments, these things can be substantially cheaper, rationalised and simplified by a good organisation in order to strengthen direct decision-making. You're probably disturbed by the referendums because you're more inclined to make other forum decisions in front of the auditoriums and I don't know what. What has an informal weight or informal character. This is not worthy, but especially not because we have had such experience in the past when it was decided somewhere else and not behind the keys or by raising voices. A similar story is coming back. Smaller countries can afford more direct democracy, more people-to-people decision-making. We are among countries with fewer inhabitants, fewer citizens with electoral rights, so it would be easier to decide on systems with direct decision-making. The number of referendums depends on the system. A few, if this is possible, of course this will also be used. However, if very difficult criteria are set, there will be fewer referendums, but of course we cannot claim that people’s decision-making is better or that people’s decision-making is better. No, less options are made to decide people. The countries are deciding on some kind of "modeus vivendi". As I have already said, given our bitter past experience, it would be good to maintain this level of direct decision-making of the people. The referendums showed, in fact, all but one that the decision in the National Assembly was wrong to make a different decision. That's what the referendums showed. Nothing but that the people are wrong or that there has been an abuse. What kind of abuse are you supposed to be thinking about? That the people had made a wrong choice or something if they had given the untrustworthy ruling coalition. There was no abuse. Abuse is just an abuse of power by a certain elite. But we cannot talk about the abuse of the authority of the people. The people have the right to make decisions under the Constitution. And it was a different decision, so it bothers you, of course it bothers you. Now you're gonna say it was wrong. If this bothers you It is similar to those who speak, statistics are bad about unemployment, about inflation, let us stop the statistical service because it is disturbing because it gives such problematic data to us. [[...]] That's the logic of thinking. Once or twice a year, the dates when the referendums can be signed for rationalisation, and then this will be done, whatever it may be. And why would we reduce the possibility of a legislative initiative on the part of citizens? Which referendums are not allowed, on behalf of whom will you decide that referendums are not permitted? That winged, or the word "human rights cannot be decided at the referendum". To decide to decide on human rights. When freedom is taken away and freedom is not taken away. But not directly to whom it will be taken, but the procedure, the legislative matter, is open to the people to make a completely legitimate and legal decision as to whether a law defining the restriction of freedom is a decision. That's what we can talk about. You are selling these false stories to decide rights in Slovenia at the referendum on fundamental human rights: yes or no. And you're wasting this information around the world. It's not that. A criminal code can also be decided, including a criminal code that restricts freedom. Are you saying that it is not possible to introduce a referendum on the criminal code? These are the facts that we need to think about when we change our system. The current regime does not require any change, but in particular the restriction of direct democracy of the people, direct decision-making of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Master Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendments to the Constitution that we are discussing relate only to the legislative referendum. Therefore, it is not possible to agree to the repeated thesis that it is the only possibility for people to influence decisions, say the irresponsible authorities. The referendum and elections are both a form of direct expression of the will of citizens and citizens. However, I think that the fundamental problem is that some still cannot distinguish between these two forms of expression of will and that they are replacing. That's what's causing the problems. The manipulations and abuses of the referendum occur most frequently when the parties to the referendum want to abuse the referendum as a direct form of expression of the will of citizens and citizens instead of expressing the will to vote. That's my problem. The reference to democracy and the assessment of the democracy of a country after how often the expression is a referendum is certainly not in favour of those who are closer to the Swiss model, because I do not know where they will then include a whole range of very democratic countries, but the referendum, as some, is very easily realistic and often achieved forms of expression, do not know. I support those who believe that consideration is needed on the limitations of the possibility of a previous legislative referendum. Research also proves that we are one of the few countries that has such an existing regime. It would be good, however, to refer to the fact that it is often possible to hear how the opposition will support good projects, that it has the political will to support good projects. We've also heard of constructive opposition. Why not then give her the opportunity to participate in the legislative process in order to cooperate with her own good faith and help her to develop good legislation. Thus, it can now be heard that referendums are necessary because the National Assembly is unable to adopt good legislation. In democracy, it's the votes that make the decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u23	Thank you. My friend Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u24	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues. Comrade Sašo Pece has already said a good part of the content, so allow me to touch some other things in connection with the content. First time. I was delighted to read the content of Articles 90, 97, 99 and 170 of the Constitution of Slovenia. And I can honestly admit that with this content written down, I am very, very pleased. However, it is not fair for some of you to directly or indirectly tell me that I am manipulating and exploiting - that is, my personal opinion is such, others may have a different opinion. That's why I can't, and I won't, if I can, tell anyone that he's manipulating and exploiting, if he thinks otherwise. So please, colleagues and colleagues, do not use these terms or use them because someone thinks otherwise. Today, in this National Assembly, it has been said that the referendum makes the exercise of power more difficult. Those words were spoken by a respected colleague, Mr Potsch. You know, this sentence can be understood in its own way. I understand that someone is in the way - or I will say otherwise - that the people are in the way of power at her work. I can understand that sentence like that. I don't know if we'd just agree with my dictates, but that's what it means. I am proud that in Slovenia we have special experience with the referendum, as Mr Tone Anderlič said. I'm proud of it. It doesn't bother me. It bothers me. It was said that the referendum stalled the adoption of laws. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what's wrong with this at least when some people think differently from you and we don't think that the marriage is meant to be bad. Do we really have to accept everything from the current tape as it is now? First of all, allow me to be the most disappointed and most disturbed when all the speakers in the order, of course from the coalition, you say 'in Europe this is not the case, in Europe this is the case, in Europe it is different, the European countries have one way or another'. Yeah, why shouldn't Slovenia be Slovenia? Why must Slovenia not be unique in some things? Are we ashamed of that? Why do we have to follow, most European countries? What's wrong, after all, with Switzerland? They have a federal referendum there, and they have cantonal referenda for almost every single thing. All right, well, they did it in Switzerland, and we did it the way we did. In Europe, they have at least once more wages than in Slovenia, but not all have such productivity. Well, what the hell! Why don't we say here, and now we'll be following in Europe's wages, not at the expense of such a good Slovenian nation, which will raise them up a little. It really bothers me, don't mind me, but Slovenia is Slovenia. And thank God that sometimes there are refugees, as it is, a young country that has developed on cruel experiences, whose constitution you have also written, the one you want to change today in some articles. My personal opinion is that I agree with one part of the amendment if it were given to set a threshold, for example, I do not know that 30% of the people should come to the referendum, that the referendum is in force. Okay, that's my personal opinion, I agree with that. But with everything that's proposed here, I absolutely won't and I can't. Allow me to say, on my behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that Article 3 already speaks clearly and loudly and in the second sentence of paragraph 2: Citizens and citizens exercise authority directly. It shall be carried out directly by a referendum. And such as is enshrined in the Constitution, and the rules of the game which are enshrined in the existing constitution in these articles are rights and Slovenian for Slovenia. I'm proud of that, and I'm going to insist on keeping it the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u25	Thank you. Dr. Miha Brac gets the floor for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd like to say something about the process of changing the constitution. When I participated in the Convention on the Future of Europe, 105 representatives from 28 countries formed a comprehensive document, a constitutional treaty, within 16 months. In Slovenia, the National Assembly in Slovenia has not been able to implement constitutional changes in more than two years. There was an obvious positive approach in the Convention, a search for what connects us, what I would say strengthens us, not what separates us. In the European Convention, the willingness of politicians to discuss how to say it was almost endless. In our country, however, there is still the arrogance of the majority over the minority. So inability to engage in dialogue or dialogue is possible only when the opposition agrees when it agrees with the majority. Discussions, the current debate on constitutional changes at this meeting also show significant differences, which means that the ruling majority did not try to gain a higher degree of consensus. It probably comes from that famous coalition fact that it has two thirds more or less and that it will change everything that it wants to change. But usually, these bills don't run out. I think that this is a way of changing the constitution when it counts on power, force, literally, a really sad way of changing the constitution in a democratic state. I keep listening to you refer to your profession. In doing so, you forget that there are many questions the profession cannot discuss at all. The Constitution creates eminent political issues, which the profession then legally correctly formulates, so that they are consistent with the origins of the Constitution, with preamble and principles and so on. Here we forget that the profession cannot resolve differences in political terms. It can help with its width, with its knowledge, with its research and examples, but it cannot solve political differences. Finally, the profession is often uneven, and there is nothing unusual about the profession. With regard to the change that is now on the agenda, i.e. with regard to the referendum, of course I object to the constitutional amendment, because I think that any restriction on the right to a referendum is just a step back in the democratisation of Slovenia. The reference to European practices, which is so common in this area, is actually manipulation by the ruling majority of themselves, and of course consciously forgets to mention many other cases, areas where Slovenian regimes are increasingly European. Let them be the wages of workers, equality before the law, violations of laws, inefficiency of justice, in particular of labour courts, as well as of others. And so on. When you mention that such arrangements as Slovenia has, no one else in Europe, this in itself is no argument. There is no Forum 21 in the democratic countries of Europe like we do. Therefore, Slovenia is not yet a non-democratic country. If someone has such a union, a capitalist, rich people, they have it. But that is why Slovenia is not yet a non-democratic country. It is sad, however, that there are no such associations in the socialist countries. But that's another question. Of course, the government's proposal cannot be supported because it abolishes something that has been created in the past, a right acquired, one would almost say, people because it sets out laws that the referendum cannot be declared. Let's say the Emergency Action Act. This is a very broad provision. Or, say, a law directly dependent on the maintenance of the state budget. The state budget is a huge document and one detail could have been enough to say, no, but that is not possible because it says so in the constitution. This is an extraordinary, extremely hard provision. Imagine putting some law on some budget item. And I would say no, but now it is not possible to carry out the referendum because it is a budget item. Or, say, the enforcement of ratified international treaties. Ireland, as you know, has put a contract from Nice on the referendum. What would have happened if we had adopted such a provision, and then in the European Parliament, there would have been a consensus, say, or political consensus in the European Council, that the new European Constitutional Treaty should be adopted by the countries at the referendums. But we will say, yes, it will not work, because in our constitution we have a provision when it comes to ratifying international treaties, it is not possible. There's a whole bunch of problems waiting for us here if we're going to act this hard. I also quote: "The referendum is not allowed to be declared even if this could result in unconstitutional consequences." Please, who can decide that something will be unconstitutional? Or Parliament? Parliament does not have this right. The National Assembly is also no longer bound by the outcome of the referendum. I know the constitutional theory, I've read everything our experts have written, and I can agree with them to a certain extent. However, I think it is actually immoral for the referendum to bring an outcome, but in the National Assembly we would say, but we are not really interested in it, we will not respect it, because it does not matter if people have made such a decision. If nothing else, it's very unusual not to say non-democratic practice. But the fact that you suggested this is probably the reason in your other practice. When it came to a referendum on the majority electoral system, you said you weren't obliged to respect it. But when it came to, say, a copious case, but you said, yes, you have to respect the will of the people; but duality is obvious. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, at a meeting of the Council of the parties in October 2001, we decided that such restrictions as the Government proposes are unacceptable and will not be supported. That's when and today, and we'll keep saying the same thing if we have to. Why are there so many referendums? Why is it that there have been several referendums in Slovenia lately? Because in recent times the arrogance of power is so powerful that it is the only way to draw the attention of the authorities to inappropriate, undemocratic conduct. Indeed, this authority is unable to discern in time where the questions could lead to a referendum are. If it were wise - and he who has power - he should also have wisdom - if this government were wise, it would be very careful to monitor what is happening and try to find consensus, not to act only on the basis of his power and not on the basis of his mind. Finally, when writing the Slovenian Constitution, it was very stressed that the referendum was some kind of control instrument for people over the functioning of power. Apparently, the government has forgotten that. People need to be trusted and given the opportunity to express this in their own way if they do not agree with the decision of the authorities, it is said, in the referendum. What the government is now proposing is going in some interesting direction, as if democracy were too much. But democracy is never too much. Democratisation of society is a process in which there are always new and new forms of opportunity to express views and, of course, also the decision-making of citizens. He who has power can abuse the people, not the people who have no power. Human beings can't abuse their power. And even in Parliament, when you talk about the opposition stalling, it is not ready to accept and so forth some of your proposals, you are talking about how we somehow abuse the Institute of Referendum. As if this last referendum, which was about so-called deleted, was called in the Slovenian Democratic Party and Novi Slovenija. That's what it looks like. But you forget that the National Assembly has called for this referendum and that the calls of the President of the State, the former President of the State, the Prime Minister for the boycott of the referendum, are an explicit form of a lack of understanding of the rule of law and a lack of respect for the constitutional order. When Slovenia enters the European Union, Slovenia acts in the opposite direction as the European Union. The European Union is looking for a greater degree of democratisation and Slovenia is reducing democratic standards. If we maintain the current provisions, there will be constant pressure on every authority at any time and in any way, because if the authorities leave the dialogue with the opposition and the public, if it gets too far away from the people, then it will have to face a referendum. Therefore again, I do not support the Government's proposal to amend the Constitution in this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, just one notice. At 12 noon, we will adjourn the debate for a short period of time and give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, and then we will continue the debate. So I urge you to understand, this is a matter that has been brought into line with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and agreed to do so at 12 o'clock. He now receives the floor from the following panellists, Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. As the representative of the opposition stands in the position that the referendums have the reason and opportunity to use it because of the arrogance of power, I can of course have the view that it would be very important for the institutes of direct democracy in our country to correct it by concrete measures in a way that would bring them to a harmful monopoly of partyhood and political establishment, and I think it would be very sensible to rebuild it from the bottom up, that is, from the people. Just like the Constitution speaks. What we have seen in our country lately can be assessed not as an institution of people, but as an institution of opposition in the Slovenian political space. Let us, through a brief review of the institutions of direct democracy provided for in our Constitution, find that nothing will be threatened in all the debaters before us; we take nothing from the people with these changes to the Constitution. Thus, we find that the first decade, in which the Slovenian political system really found its theoretical and practical place in the institutions of direct democracy, is like the history of young Slovenian democracy on even a direct democracy story of successes and shadows. The fathers of the Slovenian Constitution must have chosen a harder way to follow the principle of human sovereignty in such a exemplary and broad-minded manner. For while representative democracy, i.e. the possibility of people electing people into parliament, we can say that the mandatory programme of every modern democratic political system is much more difficult, because it requires very precise and weighed procedures on the one hand and on the other, a highly developed democratic political culture, both political elites and voters. A review of the institutions of direct democracy in our constitution shows us that they are huge. And not to assign this constitutional change to the work of some institute, but we have recently brought another kind of referendum into our constitution. If we look at the institutions of direct democracy in our constitution, we can see that these are: the right to petition, the people's initiative, the legislative referendum, the previous, the subsequent, the initiative to change the constitution and the confirmatory referendum on constitutional change. In 1994, the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative added a consultative referendum to this wide spectrum. And let us not forget that when the Constitution was amended in so-called European articles, we have also put in place some kinds of referendum on the transfer of sovereign rights to international organisations and the entry into defence unions. The palette is extraordinary. Access by citizens and citizens to these institutions of direct democracy shows us that, compared to other democracies, with the countries around us, it is quite simple. For example, the right to petition - access to this institute is easy. For example, the Austrian Parliament allows only collective petitions of 500 citizens, and with us every citizen has the right to give State authorities initiatives of general importance. The Human Initiative - 5,000 voters are allowed to submit a law after the constitution to the National Assembly, i.e. 0.3% of the population; others are significantly more difficult. Human demand - because the people's initiative for the National Assembly is not mandatory Allow me to move on because I don't have that much time. [[...]] The initiative to change the constitution, then the consultation referendum and to stop more precisely at a constitutionally defined optional legislative referendum, which is the most powerful institute of direct democracy in Slovenia. But we all have to admit that after so many years of application of this institute we can find that, compared to other countries, this institution has three specialities, namely, these particulars give it one-size-fits-all. The first is that there is an extremely wide range of beneficiaries who may request a referendum. In most other countries only one or more institutional political system actors can request a referendum, while in Slovenia four are listed: the National Assembly itself, 30 members of the National Assembly, 40,000 voters and the State Council. And your esteemed colleague Brace, the National Assembly, you say it's what the referendum itself has called for. You're deceiving. You know exactly that on the basis of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly - if the referendum question is clear, reasoned, there is no doubt that it is constitutionally consistent - is required to present a referendum. This is a constitutional provision and a request may be made by 30 members of the national assembly. That's the right thing to do. And since it was filed, the invitation to tender was only a formal act. And this breadth of the applicants, this breadth of the candidates, is, of course, a unique one in our constitutional order. And in this is the opportunity or possibility of political opposition to use this institution frequently on the basis of a constitutional provision. Often. It is intended for the electorate and the electorate, which is, as we have quoted, as you quoted earlier, article 3 of the Constitution, a form that is intended for people. The referendum request to be submitted by the Council of State is also a Slovenian unique and referendum at the request of a parliamentary minority, that is 30 Members and Members, in fact to be seen in one way only in the Danish regime. The number of 40,000 signatures, which is 2.6 per cent of the total population, is also a relatively unnecessary condition compared to other countries. I really want to put forward the arguments that led us to minor changes and I am trying, not with the arrogance that is evident to us, but with some thought with an argumented debate, I want to get over what you are always referring to: strength, strength and so on. The second difference is that the referendum is completely possible on all issues, and you know exactly that the referendum law and the human initiative have listed rules that should not be a force for referendum decision-making in our country. The Constitutional Court said that, if already, these restrictions should be enshrined in the Constitution and deleted the article in the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which established such restrictions. This led, of course, to complement this constitution with this reference. Not only because we are assessing that this is necessary, because this is also the standard of the countries around us. That is to say that the referendum is possible on all matters covered by the law, where the excluded matter, such as the state budget, the release of penalties, the ratification of international agreements, is otherwise dealt with. This shows us a review of other referendum arrangements. Moreover, no quorum or majority is provided for us to take a decision at the referendum. And even this arrangement, whether we admit it or not, is comparatively exceptional in our country. Both the introduction of a quorum and the exclusion of certain materials would, of course, be possible only after amending the constitutional provision on the legislative referendum. Otherwise, there's no way. Mr Vice President, I ask you to stop me if it's too long. Third time. For the third time, in Slovenia, a referendum is possible not only on adopted laws, which is customary everywhere else, i.e. the subsequent legislative referendum, but also on bills, of course, this is the so-called previous referendum, which is, we recognize or not, one way Slovenian referendum invention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u29	Dear colleague!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I'll pick it up later.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u31	Please, if you'll stop now. I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Pahor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u32	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! On 7 April 2004, the General Assembly of the United Nations set for the International Day of Remembrance of Victims of Genocide in Rwanda. In this regard, our Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, stated in a statement on the 10th anniversary of genocide in Rwanda that Slovenia condemns such acts most severely, but also points out that it is necessary to strengthen the ability of the international community to respond effectively and in a timely manner, especially to the United Nations, in such humanitarian crises. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, on a proposal from the Rwandan Government, called on individual countries and the entire international community to honour the memory of genocide victims on Wednesday at 12 noon with a minute of silence. Our government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has also decided to invite all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, especially public servants, to honour the memory of a minute silence today at 12 p.m. on the International Day of Remembrance of Victims in Rwanda. This memory is now given to the State Assembly by a minute of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u33	Thank you, President. We can proceed with the debate. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u34	Thank you very much. So about this Slovenian invention that was supposed to be involved in the constitutional change of its abolition. The previous referendum, therefore, is similar to a human requirement, because the initiators can also propose a thorough amendment of the law in their referendum question. The special feature of this referendum is that voters can decide on a law before it is adopted and that the National Assembly is therefore bound by the outcome of this referendum. The complications came about. If we look at the arrangements so far, then there may be a complication, because it is not possible to force members of the National Assembly to vote in the referendum on the decision taken in exactly the same form as it is possible to even ask the question. Otherwise, the matter is complicated when it is decided at the referendum on a specific issue and it is therefore necessary for the State Assembly to draw up the law subsequently. The initiative to collect signatures in support of such a referendum request must be supported only by 1,000 electoral signatures. The biggest problem is that the legislative procedure at the time of assembly, that is, 30 to 60 days, has been suspended. And as we see in practice lately, it does not necessarily have to be interrupted once, it can be interrupted several times if the promoters are the right ones. And this is about opposition parties, which, therefore, also the breadth of the referendum regime has given them the opportunity to act as initiators of the referendum. And, Your Honor, there is no secret that the practice of referendums, in particular the attitude of professional policy towards this most sacred institution in all the political system, has greatly undermined the reputation of direct democracy. At a time when the trend in most modern democracies is towards the development of direct democracy and the increasing practice of human initiatives, demands and referendums, we can find out from today's debates that even Slovenia will not be able to say goodbye overnight from its own two-faced but extremely rich referendum tradition, not in part, but from all the democratic world to which we can recognize that name, we cannot correct what is more than no in this work, we can even say that it restricts us. An assessment of the large part of the professional and political public is that institutionalisation of direct democracy in Slovenia is poor. The problems are therefore well known to experts and practitioners in the history to date - unclear procedures, Parliament's overriding role in direct democracy, the Institute of the previous legislative referendum as such, the absence of quorums or the necessary majority, and the exclusion of certain materials from the referendum decision. At least that should be settled in this part. With full responsibility I claim - at the outset, I have cut down quite a few institutes, I can say, a rich volume of institutions of direct democracy that are available in the Slovenian space. And it's obvious that in the work that these previously described shortcomings make us aware that we want this institute to be completely crippled, they really hold the most. And in the part of the proposal you can see where the intention goes. The intention is to really build this institution from the bottom, a part of the proposal where voters would propose a law that is broken down, which is proposed in the position, shows that we want to take the initiative at least in this part where we all really want it to be - this is in front of the electorate. And we want the political "establishment" to not actually use this institute, not least, as we have seen recently, even the free election campaign. Thank you. Beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u35	Thank you very much. And since Dr. Brace was mentioned in the meantime, he has a replica on his mind, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u36	I object to Mrs Krebs in the part where she mentioned this last referendum and said that our arrangement was for the refugees and so on, for the refugees and that it was only a formal decision. Of course, it is a formal matter, since the National Assembly does not take informal decisions, since the National Assembly is not Forum 21. Here we are representatives of the people, elected, and we are obliged to respect the procedures prescribed by law, constitution and rules of procedure, and if a procedure is carried out in accordance with these rules - and this is, I hope you will say that it was - then the moment when the national assembly decided to sign a referendum on the basis of a prescribed procedure, but this referendum was not the Slovenian Democratic Party or any other candidate. I therefore hope that we agree on this. It is therefore necessary to respect this decision, which is the decision of the national assembly to call a referendum, as legitimate and legal, but not one of its individual constituent parts. And of course, then I can talk in the sequel - I can't replicate everything because I don't have time, but I've never heard anything like it! The overwhelming role of Parliament - you will not hear this in Europe, these are incredible things. And so once again, when I hear this, you're actually limiting the possibilities of direct democracy. And we think that people have the right to make decisions when the government breaks them as much as the current government does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u38	Thank you very much. It is indeed an abuse of clarification at work when Mr Brejc says that the National Assembly has called for a referendum. Yes, despite the warning that it would be appropriate to withdraw the request for a referendum on a law that would not produce any results, you did not withdraw this requirement. So truly no, please abuse and that is why my debate went in the direction of such a broad-minded set of possible institutes of direct referendum, which is not in the hands of voters and voters in Slovenia, but political opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u39	Thank you. Jerca Mrzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members, dear people. I would like to respond to some recurring developments in our Parliament. First of all, there is only one thing in mind: "Destruct, destroy, destroy", which was written by Kosovel, whose anniversary we celebrated recently, around 1920, is the slogan of the revolutionaries. All right, but Kosovel also wrote this poem: "The storm is going through my path, and my cloak is resisting, it is seeking to break my rebellion, not rebellion, God's restlessness. When he crucifys a travelling coat like a bird born into freedom, I feel and fight this fate with the power of double wings. That is how I go. That is how everyone who feels the goal in the distance goes. If fate stops him a step, he opposes them." Where's the target? If you want to crash: what are you offering, what is your goal? We have independence, in all history, such dream autonomy. We are going to Europe as one of the most developed countries. I have never experienced a meeting of the National Assembly constantly - secondly - that would not offend our past, which we have already changed and achieved democracy. We're not aware of any more good. No one is willing to admit that in postwar times there were also decisive qualities, which meant not a foundation stone, but a fundamental rock for today's independent, sovereign, democratic Slovenia. But no one talks - the third - and no one talks about all the good things that have happened to us and the very bad kind of capitalism. I am comforted by the fact that they were rich but our people and not foreigners, as they used to be in Slovenia. This is a major problem of Slovenia. We also need to build the system on the benefits and experiences of the previous system. Someone mentioned before me, one speaker was - thank you, for a nice look - one speaker was, who said: stood up to the people. What was in the previous system? In the previous system, people were constantly being talked about in power. About the referendum. The speaker before me who spoke about the referendums did not mention one referendum, and this referendum on the medical fertilization of women. We talked about women's rights yesterday, he didn't mention it! Is it possible that someone is embarrassed? It would probably be healthy for anyone to be ashamed of this referendum. I am convinced about human rights that it is not decided at the referendum, too long has the human race struggled and fought for too long for human rights, too much suffering to be as far as we are. We have witnessed the inflation of performances - we have chosen TV broadcasts and maybe this is why - the inflation of words and that is why we do not listen here anymore. One more thing about the referendum. If you remember, today someone suggested that we have a referendum once a year, I proposed before the time that we would have a referendum every month, and then we don't need this national assembly anymore, because this one is very expensive too - let's end the national assembly! These referenda are just a matter of one client and 30% of the results are not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u41	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u42	Yeah, just a conclusion. Let's go to the referendum: do Slovenian people want to live in capitalism? Who's hoping? Then we'll see what the result is. One more word. I support the position of the Constitutional Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is given to Joža Ašić.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I think that I can say that most Slovenian professional public, as well as the lay public, expect us to do something to avoid the nonsense that is happening to us through the constant invitation to referenda on topics that are by no means the public could discuss in a large and sufficiently wise way. This is evidenced by numerous expert articles, as well as by numerous public opinion polls, as well as polls from various local newspapers, when the respondents answer that they do not think we can decide on such issues at the referendum. The way we have today, on the basis of the Constitution, on the basis of the Constitution and the referendum law and the human initiative, could be said to allow for the violence of a minority over a minority. Violence of a minority because it allows a minority - and this is a strong minority - to decide on certain issues. The violence of a minority over a minority is due to the fact that, as a rule, we decide largely at least at the referendums on the rights of minorities, minority parts of the Slovenian population, including marginal groups, if you wish. And that's not right. And that's not right! And the predecessor mentioned before me, for example, a referendum on biomedical aid. What do you know about the damage you have done to some couples in Slovenia? And that's the one who's trying for big Slovenian families. You've done a barbaric fact that these people are looking for help abroad. Because, despite the knowledge and expertise provided by Slovenia, we do not allow them to operate in Slovenia. The referendums, such as the reorganisation of Slovenian railways, and the guarantee law for some credit and similar matters, were put into referendum decisions by universal Slovenia. And Mr. Brace says it's our fault. That we're the ones who called these referenda. Mrs Irma said, of course, in what part we acted responsibly, because we respected the legislation, on the basis of the request of those who requested it. And in one case waiting for a referendum to be held or not, these 1,000 signatures were collected even after the inn. SDS activists collected support for these, or 1,000 signatures per inn. And these people at the inn, you know, at morning coffee or the afternoon glass, they really knew what the problem was in this marriage that we were supposed to go to the referendum. These are indeed qualified candidates. Thus, I think it is right that these views be supported today in order to allow for a change of constitution and, on the basis of the amended Constitution, also a new law on referendum and human initiative. And I reject any thesis that we want to reduce the right to a referendum in Slovenia, it is said, the right of voters and voters of Slovenia to decide on the most important things - I emphasise the most important things. No right will be taken away from this change, but the possibility of abuse, which we are increasingly witnessing, may be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace, he didn't mention you. If you don't agree with anything [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] No, no. Please, Mr. Brace, before you go, you have a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u46	Thank you very much, no. I thank Mr Auschwitz for saying he really mentioned me, and I regret that the President does not listen to what people say. So, again, it's a formal act. Once a formal act has been adopted - and you know that democracy is the essence of a procedure that must be such that it is clear to all and can be used by everyone, in this is the essence of form, of a form of democracy. Once that happens, it's free to talk about how it happened. And secondly, I strongly protest the insult that you have made today - the complaint not only of our activists, SDS, but of people sitting in in inn and not knowing what they are discussing, what they are signing, as you say. Of course, this is not the way we do things, nor do we offend people sitting in inn.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u48	Well, I'm not going to apologize for this insult, because someone who sat down and asked if they would sign it. And when he asked what to sign, there was no answer. That's it. The answer was, against the deleted, not the content, that's what this is about. Second, as far as the formal act is concerned. Of course, there's a lot of debate about that. If, in principle, you always respected formal decisions, then you would not spit on the budget, say, or after other decisions of the National Assembly, after they have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Your Honor! A change in the constitution in the field of the referendum could, in my view, significantly reduce the potential of people after a direct democracy. The referendums have so far played an extremely important, positive role in Slovenia. With them, a number of large economic damage was prevented, with the help of the referendum, it was possible for the telecommunications investors to get back what they overinvested, perhaps once, with the good will of the government majority, 150,000 people, and what was, by will, intended for the government majority in the pockets of the transitional owners. Much more good and positive has been done and many have been prevented, it is said today, rightly, that a little more referendums are the result of the extraordinary arrogance of the current authorities. And because of this, I am surprised that the previous referendum and referendum are, in general, the most neurological point of the present power. So neural that, in fact, even the coalition partner was expelled from the coalition as soon as he identified himself as some very important referendum. And because of this - the authorities and the government Members - as I see from these performances, they are disturbed by many things. They're mostly disturbed by the people. In Slovenia, in particular, something is wrong with the Slovenian people. Here it was also said by the ruling majority that in Slovenia people who are not prepared to objectively inform the people who are going to the referendum are being manipulated, from the mouth of Member Potrč, who said the last time in these debates that there is a large majority of all commentators on their side in all media. And they tell you they're manipulating those who don't have any influence on commentators at all. He's been very open-minded to admit that the vast majority of commentators are on their side. That's a quote from his statement. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Please allow me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u51	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Mr Jerovšek, please, we are considering the position on amendment to Article 91. Please stick to the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u52	One of his commentators [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u53	Mr Jerovšek, I remind you, please concentrate on the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u54	This content, what [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u55	It's not the content, it's the individual's statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u56	Sorry, no, you won't always take my word for it. One of his commentators writes that we have a broken mental horizon. The mental horizon of people. Such insults about the past referendum have been brought about because people have not made the right decision again. Then my predecessor talks about the violence of the minority over the majority, as if in our law on the referendum initiative, where it is written that most people should not go to the elections, to the referendum. Isn't that free access? Is it not beautifully written, as everywhere in the world and Europe, that it is up to those who are willing to make decisions to decide? Yet, such thesis is that the violence of the minority over the majority is at stake. Mr Potrč also said in this sense that we actually have an institution of direct democracy that is supposed to be sufficient, especially general elections. I agree with this that this is one of the main institutes, and, thank God, the Slovenians have had it for 13 or 14 years. But it has been said that we, who once had absolute power, have given you so much that you can now make decisions in general democratic elections. And it disturbs those who want to abolish on average the right of the people to a referendum, and they are also disturbed by the taxively stated quorum, by which they would defend this "violence of minorities" as they express themselves. Look, there's been a lot of talk about the quorum. However, European comparative practice, where there is a quorum in very few countries, has also shown that in countries with quorum, each campaign is reduced to a campaign against participation and the decision-making is in the background. Modern law is therefore leaving the quorum. The quorum was also negatively defined by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, because it is only an obstacle to the decision-making process, which does not contribute to its quality in any way; the Constitutional Court was thus defined. And, see, before this referendum, we also had a campaign against participation in the referendum. Some of Potce's commentators thought that the action was absolutely successful, and have already written down that participation - after the referendum, comments have been published that show that the referendum is illegal because it is expected to be attended by less than 20% of the people. And this was written to them, of course, because the comments were already written in advance, based on the assumptions and effects of these boycott calls. Then it is stated here that Europe is fleeing the referendums. That's not true! Europe is exploring possibilities for greater integration of direct decision-making, for greater integration of referendum decision-making. From this point of view, the attempt to limit the referendum is extremely non-European. In fact, important decisions in European countries are taken at the referendum, are put to people's approval, and this is not a non-European regime. They are also disturbed by this, saying that too many institutional candidates have the right to propose a referendum with us. This was referred to as "Slovak Unikam". Look, even if there's anyone else in this area, it doesn't bother me at all, because, say, the quarantined princes were also a fugitive who even came into U.S. practice. I'm more disturbed by another Slovenian unique. In fact, the minister whose marriage people plebiscitely reject doesn't feel he's lost his political legitimacy. I have a problem with Slovenian refugees that, say, the electoral campaign law allows me, I don't know, 500,000 tolars after one Member, and government Members spend 20 million on one Member, and the Court of Auditors says that this is not a matter for their further examination. I also have a problem with this Slovenian runaway that bankruptcy managers are robbing bankruptcy creditors. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u57	Mr Jerovšek, you may abuse the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, it is my duty to remind you that you do not have the right to do so. Secondly, I remind you to move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u58	This is where the government MP used to say what was bothering her. Of course, she expressed nostalgia according to the previous system, where the authority of the people has always been in the language, we have a completely different rhetoric, a completely different one. We are actually advocating that the people can go to a referendum, that they can only contribute to deciding what needs to be decided. It is disturbed by the inflation of performances in this regard. I think we have experienced a foreign inflation of recitations in this House. If I had mentioned this - when I once mentioned two versions of Gregorčič, one of the commentators immediately told me that I was using the versions of a poet in vain. It doesn't bother me, it could be the whole stage of the theater, but it's not the other way to judge by the inflation of the performances. But they're disturbed by the argument on our part, and that bothers them. This bothers us to tell people in a transparent way what is bothering the authorities, why we would like to end a referendum whose effects the referendum is so terribly afraid of. And look, of course, I do not intend to support these constitutional changes, but it is true that if we are to adopt legislation in the way that the law on access to electronic telecommunications is adopted in these days, which we are adopting this week - a broad law. Completely unprepared, following an urgent procedure, which should follow a regular procedure, at the expense of accepting amendments even in the event of non-conclusion, which I have to warn today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u59	Mr Jerovšek, I took your word if you don't want to move on to the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u60	In this way, the automatic authority launches referendums, and I do not predict it, but in this way triggers it, because it is impossible to follow the motherhood and not overlook something that is, say, incorporated into the law, which absolutely does not fall within the law. And, for example, once again, we are adopting a comprehensive system law in this way, and we are referring to European guidelines. Three years ago, however, when the predecessor of this law was adopted, they referred to European guidelines. I don't know where that leads. That's what I think is Slovenian uncum. Yes, it is also Slovenian unity that we are forcing this debate on constitutional changes, although we know that this will not be possible to force the national assembly in this mandate. We're wasting three days doing Sisyphus' work. And in fact, in this case, the compulsion of the National Assembly is almost in fact only the work of Sisyphus, which will not bear fruit, because it would be inappropriate to adopt such solutions, which go against this, directly to democracy, which is enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution, and I hope that the National Assembly will not accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Butolone's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! In fact, there is no need to debate today, for it is clear from the debate that there is not enough will to change anything in the field of referendum, or it is obviously the will of some that nothing needs to be changed. Today and in general in this House there is a great deal of talk about the will of the people. Legally speaking, the results of the referendum are not questionable. It is clear to everyone that most of those who come to the polls decide. But that's the legal position. Nevertheless, politicians should think and ask themselves, above all the opposition, whether maybe 70% of people who never come to such referendums have their will. Perhaps they too have their own will. Not just those who don't come. That they have their will [[...]] [[Please don't interfere with Mr. Kelemina.]] That they have their will shows their participation in the elections. Local elections 1994, 1998, 2002, the 1992, 1996 2002 national elections - in the previous I meant 2000 - as well as participation in the referendum to join the European Union and then each had at least twice as much participation as the best referendum visited on all other matters. Is that not sufficient reason to ask ourselves in this national assembly what kind of referendums we are signing? But it might still be worth imagining. Perhaps this is also due to the fact that in surveys of popularity or trust, we are a last resort to the national assembly among all the institutions in this country. That would be worth saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u63	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me be allowed to protest in the first place. That is, I protest, although I have not been authorized to do so, on behalf of the press and journalists. I protest that this hall, these microphones are being used continuously - and today even a few minutes ago - for improper attacks on honest and correct journalism, on journalists who are doing their hard and hard work in the best possible way and in my judgment very well in this country. And that they are encouraged by dirt, such as political bribery, so to speak, by the influence of this or that political group and these or those political people, by the appointment, such as "Tranch commentators" and so on. That's dirty. And if any journalist may be afraid to write this down, I am not afraid to say that this is a dirty political game that is sloppied and unworthy of this House. So much for that. Because it's manipulation and because I want to talk about manipulation, because a referendum can be manipulation and therefore certain things need to be changed into a constitution. It doesn't have to be, and it's not always, but it's easy. Today, this has also been said: the essence of democracy is in the process. Once adopted, yes, I deeply agree with that. It is only then that there is no room, no time, and it is not possible to say for a referendum that answers the question whether you agree with the adoption of such a law or with the provision of such a law that it will mean - not what we ask - but it will mean whether they trust the government or do not trust the LDS policy and do not know who else. And after the referendum: yes, of course, it was, but people have thus expressed their distrust of the government, their distrust of this policy and so on. It's manipulation. Manipulation to ask something, but to claim that people wanted to say something else. And that's what you can't be on these things, and it's not good. As a result, the Institute of Referendum must be respected, deeply respected and applied when the true will of people must be expressed in this way. We have had some such referendums, I will not repeat them, and it is right that, and they have also shown, after all, also with participation and results, that people are deeply aware of what, and when and what, and when, what, and what they expect of us, they do when asked again in this country. But all the other time they want, they want, we can read it from all the polls, they've told us a hundred times - they've asked us whether we're ever going to ask the referendum whether they want these referenda or not - so they want us to do our jobs the way we should do it all the time. That the National Assembly does its work to take account of the will of the people in the elections and that each of its work is carried out, a position with the power of position because it has been elected in this way, and with the responsibility of the position and the opposition with the power and responsibility of the opposition. This is what people want, and we want to inspire them to do something else, so it is not right for us to use the sacred issue of democracy, such as the referendum, as it has been said here today, that this is one of the means of opposition. Wrong, wrong, unacceptable! It is unacceptable that the referendum is a tool of any policy: either a position, which is also possible, or an opposition. Even if the position is behind the referendum, manipulation is unacceptable, and even if it finds the opposition all possible ways to hide behind the referendum and to enforce its power in Parliament through such things, it is unacceptable. This can't be the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Petan to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable. So one of the arguments for limiting the referendum is that it is a specialty, that it is a unique one in Europe and that they do not know it anywhere. In fact, you've already said for yourself that it's not like Switzerland knows this, and if we were at least about Switzerland, we shouldn't be ashamed of it. But since I still think we're not around that we're still missing something by "approximation", it's no wonder that we're doing Switzerland, too, for example, in this area. The plant would not be sad if we could do some other kind of imitation in Parliament. I would say even more, on the contrary, if I had these referendums, such legislation in the referendum, we would not have them, we should introduce them, but not to abolish them, I will also tell you why. Of course, this raises the question of why we need a referendum at all, why we need this instrument, why we use it and why we need to use it at all. I say that exclusively - and this is not just my personal opinion, I share the opinion of thousands - only because of the arrogance of the ruling majority who simply does not understand that they are also different in this society and that they also have their rights. This has usually proved to be a different majority. This, of course, raises the question why other European countries may not use this institute so much - where they do not use it. The answer is quite simple: if such an arrogant government were to rule elsewhere in Parliament, not just a minister, the government would immediately fall, it would not even have thought of thinking and perhaps going to parliament for a secret, they would have simply stepped down. That's why they can't even think of doing something like that. On the other hand, I would also like to say that we have not yet heard in these European countries that the government or Parliament would like to impose solutions that people do not support. At the same time, that this instrument can run with us, the government is ordering a public research, the result of this research with annexes to what the government wants to do, and that is then an excuse for people to want it. Then it comes to the referendum and the result is completely different. That means that the research was like this, with an air swing. Nor do I know the case - and that is why, of course, there are not so many referendums in Europe - that the ruling majority would make fun of people and work against the will and interests of their citizens. Such a case occurred on Sunday when it was deleted. However, they have been erased to refugees in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. There's no referendum, but they've been erased.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u67	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u68	We'll get to that, and I'll explain. Sunday's referendum, however, is the purest case and the strongest argument why referendums are needed, why they should be and why they should remain as they are. Ladies and gentlemen, if 95% of people vote against the law that you have confirmed with the majority, it means that those who have come know exactly what they want to understand exactly what the law says, and that your excuses, that people do not understand what it is, are completely on torn legs. It wasn't 50:50 or 50:49,9, but 95% were against it, and only a good 3% supported it. They understood him! And here's proof that people know and that referendums are needed. I would say that this Sunday with this question that has arisen, which must have occurred, and with such solutions you have achieved a world record of how not to work. This is because the content is also absurd, as it was, it has nothing to do with the decision of the Constitutional Court, because the decision of the Constitutional Court can be resolved in another way. And such a solution is a great deal of mockery from people, and no country knows it. Secondly, the call for non-participation of the most visible representatives of the government. This is what someone mentioned earlier, but perhaps people are not allowed to go to the referendum, and some have explained to themselves that if they go to the referendum and maybe someone will observe what the consequences will be. This was the case, too, and it was irresponsible that the highest representatives called for non-participation, not to mention the incineration of calls for a referendum of some court jesters. And that's a lot of everything, and they don't do it any other way, and that's why we don't have to have so many referendums. And if we were to be so unique about the referendums, it would still be acceptable and normal for us, because nowhere else in Europe the biggest owners of the largest companies do not represent such political positions as we do. As I mentioned earlier, nowhere in Europe do they know the deleted and in Lithuania they called off the President of the State yesterday because he helped a foreigner to his nationality. If we were to take this to our ground, we could lose the government, without the presidents, without half of Parliament, the state would be so ruled. It's not that simple, I agree, I take that criticism if someone says, "Listen, it just doesn't work." I agree with that. However, I said in a parable, because because of the fact that you provide or help a foreigner in obtaining citizenship, he will call you back as president and I would say that it is quite bad. We need to be aware of that, too. But that's what happened in Lithuania, ladies and gentlemen. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]] Okay, but it's illegal in Lithuania, but it's going to be solved in Lithuania. But from what I hear, Lithuania will still be admitted to the European Union and it has already been and therefore have no problems. We need a referendum because it is a serious mirror of the ruling majority. And this mirror always shows an ugly, unattractive image. And in order for this image to be more beautiful, those who have the power to stop, instead of changing the behavior and thus correct the image in the mirror. And you're proposing an end, instead of listening to the opposition, who has always been right about the questions when it came to the referendum. Restricting the referendum at this time would be another absurd thing that you, of course, can afford because you have a comfortable majority. In this way, by abolishing or restricting - this is more the right term - the ruling majority wants to avoid human control and to work on their own, to the detriment of Slovenia and its citizens. The outcome of the referendum is the response of citizens to this and such work of the government, a picture of what citizens think about how the government behaves and how it treats them. So far, in the referendum and with the solutions that were, of course, the question of the referendum, you have earned a lot of play. And besides being underrated, you've been reprimanded. Think about it, and it would be wise to reject such a proposal together. Together in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u69	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Gračner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. In order not to miss what we are talking about today; we are talking about amendments to Articles 90 and 97, 99 and 170 of the Constitution. In the past and now, I reiterate, both law and policy have agreed that the existing solution for the referendum is flawed and that this issue needs to be improved by referendum. Above all, this has been demonstrated in practice, because we now have already nine referendums after us, and as my predecessors have already said, several times there was a referendum issue and the whole institution of the referendum was only misused for the political purposes of individual parties, that what they could not enforce in Parliament itself could not and could not convince them, then in the form of a preliminary legislative referendum they called or called upon a complete Slovenian electoral body to identify and then explain the results in their own way. In fact, if we looked at the results of all the referendums, their participation was extremely modest. Let me just mention here a referendum mainly on Thermoelectrica 3, where there was record low participation, but of course the majority of those who came decided on a project that really connected to a minority. It is said that the removal of these legal and political problems, which governs the Institute of the previous legislative referendum, should be regulated by this amendment to this Article of the Constitution, is also said to be the removal or reading of the abuse of the referendum which ultimately results in the obstruction of the legislative referendum. However, I could not agree with earlier speakers when they claim that this is what the government coalition simply wants to end the referendum. That's not true at all. We are not cancelling any referendum, we are lifting only a preliminary legislative referendum, which no one in Europe has, even though the opposition representative here always offers us Switzerland. Switzerland has a completely different legal system. Swiss Members are also not professionally employed, and their number of meetings is limited only to a 10-year-old so that there is no comparison with Switzerland, and not only in the field of referendum, because it is true, as far as this is concerned, that Switzerland is completely unique in the world, not only in Europe. However, what is most important in my view is that the issues that should be raised in such referendums are limited. Thus, if I were to state or somewhat refer to the previous referendum, then, for example, definitely technical decisions, then budgets, tax legislation, the law on emergency measures, the ratification of international treaties, are certainly laws that do not belong to the referendum. Let me give you an example, say, of the referendum on Thermoelectrica 3, which was carried out in 1999. Look, here we have a request from 30 Members, the referendum stars themselves are listed here. The first was Lois Peterle, under 30 John Janša, and then Paul Rupar, who, by the way, was still offended in 1999, said that Zasavje was the bed of communism. He never apologized for that insult. See, the opposition representatives today, when I listened to them here when I listened to Mr Sok, who spoke two days ago, and the SDS representatives who spoke two days ago when we adopted the resolution on the national energy programme, then said how bad this resolution would be, how Slovenia will in the future depend on the natural gas, how this will affect all households. In 1999, however, these same people contributed and their political parties to – I will say exactly – 20 million tonnes of coal remains forever underground. It's simple conjecture, these lies that have been told here cannot be held. At the same time, he announced in his speech that it was a mega-Romanian project of several billion then German brands. If 500 million for someone is a mega-Romanian project of billions, it is pure proof of what lies are used in this national council, let alone sweat in the referendums. Look at the question raised. This question is a total of 10 centimeters long. Yeah, who's supposed to understand the full contents of some funding law, about the guarantee of the construction of Thermoelectrica 3. It's just not an example that I mentioned today because I listened to earlier performing and I couldn't help but wonder how they change their arguments from year to year and how they only use them and only when they fit in. Of course, interpreting these results. See if 30% of the voters came, with all the calls, all the spots that were on local television at the time, those calls, and how can someone then think of it as a victory. No one won the deleted referendum! Nobody! If anyone had won, they would have been wiped out because this deletion of the technical law, or invalidity, extended the number of beneficiaries and, of course, opened the way for them to the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, I ask those debaters who are here, at least in Parliament, to respect so much that you speak the truth here and to interpret the results truly. Of all the above arguments I have now made, it is so much more convincing that I will support this constitutional change, but of course I am skeptical that it will really be supported, given that we cannot guarantee this majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Marshich to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam President. The fact is that in the debate, MEPs and Members like to find themselves in content that has nothing to do with changing the constitution and using this microphone and this city, and especially the cameras, to talk about everything but what we are deciding today. Personally, I think it is important that we make a change in this area. The referendums and the people's initiative, as we now have in the constitution and in the legislation, are causing a lot of bad will. So that we wouldn't think that only among politicians, but also among people. Everyone says that something has to be done, everyone says and disagrees that the referendum is a reflection of people's decision now because of the arrogance of the ruling majority. The fact is, they're tired of the referendums. Those who talk to people who go into contact with them also look at a little website, you all have computers, see what people think about the referendum we had on Sunday as well as about previous referendums. Participation is what it is, mostly they don't come, but they don't come because they don't care. Those who come, however, come, confident and, of course, vote. But I'm not going to be here right now to interpret individual results, individual referendums, because it's distasteful. For me, the referendums are valid, and I think it's only a matter of good taste, how we use these results and interpret them. Most voted according to today's and current system, two or even one, and the referendum is valid, that is an irrefutable fact. I personally believe even that the opposition has used this - and this has been repeatedly said here - as a correction of the poor electoral results in previous elections. The battle that took place here in relation to individual issues, which, of course, were also the subject of referendums, because the opposition failed with its proposals, sometimes very weak and often unconstitutional, of course, it was possible to convince people that a referendum should be held and that, in fact, the ruling coalition was to blame. This is an abuse of the referendum as an institute for me, even because people do not know - many times without knowing and must repeat it, I repeat this every time - that Members must vote on the referendum call, the referendum call decree if the criteria are met. 30 Members and the corresponding number of signatures of the electorate and electorate or the state council and so on. But people don't understand this, they don't understand why Dorian Marshich wasn't against it, but I would be against it, because I think that the referendums that we had so far - one wasn't appropriate, not one, we had the consensus: then, the EU and so on. But the ones we have now, which the opposition has produced, I certainly disagreed with one of them, but I have to press the button. And what do people say? People say leave us alone and do your job! That's what people say. And our work is here, the opposition does its work with its power or with weakness and the ruling side must do its work with its power and with its arguments. Sometimes the opposition disagrees with this, but it is a democracy:four years of rule and postage years of the new election. And in the new elections, tell the people where the position broke it, and we'll tell them where the opposition broke it. For me, the result is that 10% of the voters voted in favour of your proposal in Cyprus - sorry, you will tell me that I am manipulating - but for me this is not a quorum that I would be overly bragging and explaining that this is a plebiscite decision. The plebiscite decision is for me if the plebiscite number of people comes to the polls and is expressed there by the plebiscite majority. It's a plebiscite decision for me. Go and read what plebiscite means and what plebiscite means. Finally, my personal opinion is that we should go into amending legislation and constitution to the extent that we should set up a quorum to which the referendum should apply. This is what other countries have in order and they know why. In particular, because of the decision taken by citizens and citizens, it will not be possible to interpret - precisely because of the low participation - that he may not have succeeded, that it was the will of those who did not attend the "against" referendum or express their opposition to a particular referendum issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u73	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. The current transitional and subsequent legislative referendums have cost this country and this budget and our budget have stood at two and a half billion in this mandate. A relatively high number on one side, but on the other hand it can be relatively small. Based on the width of the decisions. In the telecommunications law alone, it is said that the return on overinvestment in the construction of the telecommunications network was made possible by this law, which allowed citizens and citizens almost 15 billion money that would otherwise be lost anywhere. Not to mention other referendums, the referendum on deleted ones that we witnessed to him this Sunday. And in my opinion, the actual expression of the number and the multitude of referendums is mainly on the question of whether Parliament, the ruling majority, as well as the opposition, is ready to seek consensus. And if here, for example, I paraphrase only the question of opening time in trades, I can argue that in this particular case it was a typical pressure of certain monopolies that only the provisions in the law that should be resolved with one amendment would not lead to a referendum. It's still not solved. It's not saved well. I'm also saying that what's now in the law is bad, not good. But still better than what the employers were prepared to allow through their lobbying through the National Assembly at that time. And that's another question again. At that opening time referendum, a minority was chosen. At that time, it was decided whether to have those basic labour rights. Most in this House were not prepared to take sides in the protection of fundamental labour rights in the case of the open trade law. Above all, it must be said that it is likely that a common understanding is that the National Assembly must carry out its work in the legislative process and that we can make the actual initiative and the possibility of participating in the legislative process of citizens and citizens possible through a human initiative. And there is no doubt for us in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. However, in the subsequent legislative referendum, I believe and believe that it would not be justified to seek solutions, which could lead to an even greater ping-pong relationship between the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court and also the Government on the assessment, or a certain referendum on a certain law already adopted in the National Assembly is a decision at the subsequent legislative referendum. And if everyone you have discussed today is to take at least one step forward in this direction, then I expect you to be prepared for this compromise. Otherwise, you will not convince me of the sincerity of your intentions to resolve this issue. Secondly, what has been said many times today about commenting on the referendum outcome. For God's sake, listen, we have adopted legislation on referendum and human initiative, legislation on referendums, identification of election outcomes, where it is presented clearly written, what kind of quorum is needed for individual decision-making at the referendum and how the outcome of the referendum is also determined. And here to find one or the other solution, yes, the referendum has succeeded, the referendum has no legitimacy and so on, needlessly. In the current legislation, and if we want to respect the legal system, then at this point the need for a preliminary or subsequent legislative referendum is a qualified majority who participates in elections. It is not the fault of the national assembly, nor of the citizens and citizens who did not attend the referendum, that so much and so much participation was achieved at one, second or third referendum. Whether they took part in the election or not, they left the decision to those who, of course, were in the majority who had spoken to the electorate. And I'm not talking about either one or the other or the third referendum. This is a simple position and a fact that until we change it - I believe that we do not need to change the referendums, but it would make sense for us to agree in the referendums to make them at once in a year. That would be useful. I believe, however, that neither the opposition nor the citizens will be interested in over-exploiting the instrument of the subsequent legislative referendum. Here in this National Assembly, in this mandate, in four, five cases, it has actually been shown that it took very little, very little, to reach the necessary consensus and that it would not be necessary to go to the electorate to decide on a particular referendum issue. I think it is more of a question as to whether to leave it as it is, including knowing whether we are ready in this National Assembly for a greater degree of consensus search. That's a key question, I think. And if we can find the answer to that, then I'm not afraid of any use of the institute of the subsequent legislative referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u75	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Lukic the Evil One, then Mr. Lavrinc. Mr. Evil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u76	Thank you very much. First How does it say? [[...]] It doesn't say "Luke Badness." Say that stupid thing again, and I'll rip your ears off! You committed your first crime with the first referendum, when most of you disabled single women with biomedical care. This shows how you feel about women in Slovenia. You've shown that you don't care about being born, but you just wanted to keep a woman in the kitchen and maybe still in bed. All the other referendums that you had easily received, of course, were at the disposal of all taxpayers, and you did not tell people. You've done a lot of damage. At the same time, you gave people the feeling that, in fact, a referendum is a thing that the state pays like a man from heaven, and these people go less to church, and they obviously go more to referendums. However, the function of the referendum is simply that this country would actually begin to refer to the Swiss regime, which is such that I will tell you as an example that they had a referendum on the need for violent people to be closed for the rest of their lives. It's all the pennological science that proves it's a complete cretinism. The other thing is, if you don't know if you steal a car, Switzerland has the perfect right to take the gun and shoot you. This also happened in Switzerland a few months ago, and he owned a car that he shot with seven rounds of a young man who stole his car and was fired on. In my opinion, when you, if you will, and I hope you will never come to power, you will then adopt such Swiss laws, and you will end up like the Swiss people the whole world sees on average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Lavrinco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I'll be brief, because it's my motto to write on the door of this hall: Lose hope you who enter. In fact, as long as this national assembly depends in some way on figamos and not to say anything more ugly, liars and figamos, these must be Members and Members or SLS parties, of course, it is not possible to talk seriously about constitutional changes. It is also impossible to discuss seriously the laws that need to be adopted by a qualified majority, such as the referendum law. And when I listen to all my fellow Rokavac - it's obvious, it's an extraordinary acquaintance of constitutional matter, as well as of others, because he has often advertised at all points - how he invites to compromise, I'll tell you, literally out of anger he rejects blood in his pockets. I mean, what kind of compromise? I ask you, Mr Rokavec, you and your colleagues, those who, of course, feel the same way as you do. They're not all like that, thank God. What a compromise, I ask. What we've got now has come to a close since the referendum. We know that, people know, go anywhere, and you'll hear, except for those bitter, zealous supporters of individual party leaders or customers. We all know that this is madness, for example, when someone asks you, "Will the referendum be valid if no one goes to the referendum?" I say, "No, but then there'll be nothing." But if one goes, yes, but it's okay, but everything's fine. So these are the crazies that are embedded in our legislation and where we will not come up with anything, because we all know that then this kind of political abuse, that one or two or three referendums will be signed in the electoral year just to animate the people, that I will say, an entire campaign of pre-election payments from the state budget. Of course, as long as it's possible, it won't be different. And I'm afraid it's going to be that way for a long time. Why? In order to change Article 90 of the Constitution, for example, to write down what the three groups are proposing and which is a great thing, it is excellent. I'll say it out loud. You have to tell me what this is all about. To say that such absurdity can no longer be with us as it is, if it comes, I don't know, ten people out there from some village to the electorate, and it's the whole country that should be the qualified majority. So, I do not believe because it is impossible to expect that in this constellation of political forces, which is purely legitimate, legal and understandable, it will be possible to reach up to 60 votes in this national assembly. I don't believe that, and that's why it's all sort of unrelated. But the fact is, if you want at least a small step - Comrade Rokavec, now I'm telling you that you can replicate me - a tiny step forward, then you should not think for a second when you have to press the voting device or the key to correct it as suggested here. There's just more wishes, like, you really let me down last night, and I didn't expect you to, I knew it again. In Article 121, we all know that such an administration as we have is too expensive, too irrational, that we cannot do anything because we have, say, problems in it or nothing, we cannot fix the essential things. And you're a real figurine, you promise everything when we make a deal when we sit in here, hand in pocket, of course, left fig, and right I'm on the wrong button. That's why, of course, I don't believe, and I don't speak up that day, if you notice, not in court, and I won't, either, no. But I challenge you as a great acquaintance, as I have already said, and, of course, as a man of honor, as you imagine, tell me whether you will vote for this, because in fact, you are, I don't know, whoever you are, because now it is those who are in opposition. Then let's say after the elections, when they're so threatening, we could be, and we'll be doing the same thing I'm sure, not the same for the same things, but we'll try to get on the national shoulders or on the shoulders of taxpayers, that's politics, but unfortunately, to go over the cost of a campaign. But if we do it the way we're supposed to do it, we're gonna move a little further. And, of course, I would have concluded that if I had been a little grave, they wouldn't have resented me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u80	I regret that in the LDS and in the United List, there has literally been panic over the issue of deleted, because you have made so many kicks that you have probably not made them in all your history, and also legal ones, Mr Lavrinc, procedural and so on, that I do not speak. That is why this debate in the field of constitutional change is actually burdened, including, of course, this issue, which has, of course, been burdening this national assembly for the last six months. But, you know, I don't understand this amendment because I know what the interest in this amendment is. The interest in this amendment is not to prescribe a quota of 30%, as in Denmark, where, apart from one referendum, all the referendums in this country, of course, obtained this qualified majority. The interest of this amendment is 50%, as Italy has, or as Serbia has, and so on. Here's the problem. I said the following in my search for consensus earlier, Mr Lavrinc, that we do not oppose the abolition of the previous legislative referendum and we have said this in the parliamentary group and we stand behind it. However, we are opposed to restrictions on the conditions under which a subsequent legislative referendum could be decided, except for the powers already vested in the Constitutional Court. We, as a public party, have already written in our position at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission that the provision of the second paragraph, Comrade Lavrinc, is questionable to us. We don't say anything else as far as we've warned, I personally absolutely don't. And on questions about the call for a referendum, later or earlier, I have always advocated the same position as I have said today. Voters, whether the National Assembly or most of them are prepared to reach an appropriate consensus, should be allowed to decide on a sensitive political issue. And what kind of thinking in the other direction I respect, the thinking that you have here today in the National Assembly, all those who support the grave change in this area, think about how there will still be a choice of elections and voters, be open and be credible to the electorate and electorate. The interest is not just that, but the interest is to prevent any review of the assessment in the National Assembly as much as possible, and this may also be an intervention in the actual credibility of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Rokavec, there's someone at your house who's a figaman again. Look, you specifically signed this referendum, which will again be about the so-called System Law for Deleted. That's where your signatures are. What stage did you sign it at? In the meantime, listen, it's not bird or mouse, it's neither previous nor subsequent. Mr. Sok, I didn't ask you anything when I asked you for your opinion, but you will speak. And you, Madam Vice President, please warn him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u83	Mr. Sok, I'm asking you for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u84	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, remind him, otherwise he will continue to do so. Look, what's this all about? A referendum could be held at any time on any matter, the latter in theory, for example, if the National Assembly were to be abolished, for example, to pay Members less by 50%, and the people would go to the polls with a trumpet. This means that there is a mistake here, and so long they wanted to have their own parliament, their own country and so on. Well, it's a mistake. And if you're signing referendums, denying yourself, lying here again to everyone, in fact to me, you're also trying to fix something and you're mentioning something like I even have some legal knowledge, yes, I'm a university-graduate lawyer, I've done college legally in Ljubljana, so it'll always be under the roof, not taught, not at work, which I'm proud of, on a regular basis, and I'm proud of. So, I didn't get it in my head, or I don't imagine that I know everything, as some people imagine, including Mr Sok, for example, you imagine now that you know everything about everything. What Janš did as a first-signed or now with this last referendum, is a preliminary legislative referendum, and then in his explanation he writes, as if it were a subsequent legislative referendum, it puts the matter in such a schizophrenic situation, and because it is a legal dictatorship that the question is or is not understandable, that is, a simple citizen, it is impossible for him to say at all. These are such fine legal "cakes" which must be exactly the right lawyer, I'll say, find, so that they can be used, you did. And that's why I think it's like this, if you're worried about 50%, what you'll be worried about if most citizens in the country think something's right, then they'll come and give their vote. But if only a minority thinks so, as you now rape us with your, such and other referendums, of course, in which case such a thing does not drink water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Rokavec, your dialogue has been exhausted, it is not possible under the rules of procedure at all. Mr. Sok was named. In this case, the Rules of Procedure have such restrictions. Mr. Sok, you have the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Of course, I would like to say to Mr Lavrinc that, by being a lawyer, there is no need to boast. All of us sitting here are probably finished with some college, so law isn't special in our country. You've said you're a lawyer here ten times, but you can. I congratulate you on being a lawyer. Everyone sitting here, Comrade Lavrinc, has the right to have an opinion and to think for themselves. And thank God that we have a constitution, that the LDS does not tell us what we can say and what we cannot say, that the People's Party - give him a reminder in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because if not, he will continue. Didn't he just say that?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u87	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u88	But no, what we're supposed to consider to be the opposition, to him, who's a graduate lawyer, with no reputation, and I don't know what kind of pedigree he doesn't have, he can do what he wants here. You can't do that to people. We can have our own opinions, and we can just tell you what we disagree with. And it's not true that the people's party signed this system law. It is well known that this has been submitted by the Slovenian Coalition on the basis of so many and so many signatures of citizens and citizens. And that's not true what you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u89	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor! I believe that this is a very important intervention into the Constitution and that it is not easy to deal with, with too much ease, not just because the arrangements we have now cause us extremely full of conflicts, problems and unpleasant situations. The proof of this has been every step that we have taken in the last week, accompanied by evidence, but let us do something already to make a decision where it is right to make decisions and that the burdens of things we do not feel responsible for not thinking about them, deciding them, moving them to other places. But it's also about something, I mean, wrong interpretations in an order like we have now, questions about what democracy is. And these questions are repeated in this Chamber today when part of the hall faces another part of the hall and where part of the hall thinks that the other part of the hall wants to take away the leverage of the direct political influence, as stated in the presentation of the opposition's parliamentary position, and that it wants to break the last guarantee of democracy. But I ask you, in this case, when we are increasingly faced with results where the true democratic mass of people is not deciding on the issues with which referendum promoters are addressing people, is it in this case a democratic referendum decision? In this regard, of course, I would like to stress my thinking, which is aimed at some kind of restriction or the introduction of a certain quorum. For I believe that the right decisions or fair decisions are only if they are taken or if they are decided by an appropriate number of people who certainly cannot be around the possible, now 10, 16% of people like us are completely possible, not only by legislation, but also by the constitution. For what happens if such a small minority decides on important issues in the majority sense? It happens that, in fact, a certain narrow circle of interests can be imposed, perhaps also very populist legal solutions, and that some kind of abuse of the possibility of such initiatives actually occurs. The average participations of the last referendums, such as these, were among the 27 highest, or these referendums that we mentioned today as those that did not have authority and important status. We know that during the 10 years in Slovenia there were very few or only three such referendums. In short, it doesn't matter how many people decide one problem. If they are a great minority, they cannot represent all the people. Why, of course, the free and free will of people not to go to a referendum, but the answer to a certain question was the case of the last referendum. In short, it is certain that democracy can only be understood when most or most people decide on a question. In this context, I do not think we should debate in terms of underestimating people if a demos or people are unable to judge certain issues. That's not true. It is true, however, that people themselves say many times and point out that certain questions do not need to be addressed to them because they have given their decision indirectly by expressing their will to certain political options or confidence in them in the elections. It is more about not feeling or feeling necessary, not such harassment, but not having to think about certain things, especially in the context of it, and when I sum up the views of people who are identified before such referendums when they are faced with misunderstandings. However, there is a lack of understanding of the problems, especially when the questions raised at the referendum, when they are not hidden, but given in the form of a law, can be interpreted as not to say, can also be manipulated. And if I say so, I'm not lying. Because there are more cases that I can list here. Interpretations can take place in favour of different arguments, which I will not say are simply binding, but may be in favour of certain political visions, ideological definitions or anything else. For example, this happened in the referendum on fertilization with biomedical assistance, which turned into a referendum on single women. The interpretation was very clear, the problem was reduced to some minority or integral problem, and this interpretation then led people to a special understanding of the problem. And a special understanding of the problem was also decided by the outcome itself, which was very discriminatory for all others, not just single women. The same interpretation or arguments concerning the interpretation of the referendum, the explanation that was given to the initiative to think or decide on the technical law on deleted, where issues have been relegated and moved to a completely different level, where the question has been put to the question of independence itself and where the question has also been raised - not to the question - in fact, the tendency has been to subvert something that was not in the law at all, and these were damages. Not to mention opening time, which has become an argument or reference to family values. Or, as the most eloquent and, in fact, this moment is still the closest proposal for a decision on a spatial act on the construction of a mosque at the city level in Ljubljana, where only a referendum question is raised as a sort of Trojan horse or as a paper tiger, where it is asked of entirely other matters, to decide whether or not the mosque is a simple question, a question which the act does not mention. Of course, there is no political option and it must not be of interest that such a system should be designed that would deprive them of the possibilities of a democratic decision-making tool or decision-makers, there is a genuine referendum. Not only because the opposition can immediately position itself, and vice versa, the position is very soon opposition. However, it must be thought that the options that the referendum addresses in one way or another, which, in principle, threaten, of course, and in this sense went hand in hand, the intensities of the proposal of the government law, where it would in some way define what is what we already have in the constitution, is the unconstitutionality of the referendum issues themselves and of the international treaties, etc. What else can be dangerous or unconstitutional for the country? And in this sense, I believe that it is appropriate to keep thinking. Perhaps in a more consistent dictatorship, perhaps in a better formulation of a text that would not create as many doubts as were expressed, not only in the Constitutional Commission, but also in some experts who gave separate opinions. In short, it is necessary to maintain a system that is supposed to be fairer, less manipulative, which would give the actual decision-making power to the majority rather than the minority. Let me only remind you, for we know that in Greek myths all the standards for, not only then, but also today's life and democracy were born when the gods decided not to know and no longer to judge people's fate and handed over this judgment to the people. It was, you know, for that story about Oreste where Athena said it was enough, I'm not going to judge fate by the burdened Oreste who killed his mother's husband, but I'm going to give that judgment to the people. It was the people who made the decision. According to some, this is supposed to be some kind of birth of democracy. It is true, however, that the gods at the end, when the 50:50 decision was made, still took the opportunity to establish their own judgment. That's a respectable thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Skolcz to the floor. He doesn't want to. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'll be very brief. So it bothers me that the need for such an arrangement of the referendum is measured with some very specific vats. And it keeps repeating itself, there was only one referendum that didn't fail. So, and this is given as an example of the need for such arrangements of the referendum. I think that these vats are, or that this way of interpreting the necessity of such an arrangement of the referendum issue is wrong and misleading. I think that the regulation of the referendum instrument should also be measured with consequences. And if I go for, like, opening time in stores. We know how complicated we were on the basis of a complicated referendum question, that on the basis of this question we then composed the criteria for opening trade times and other criteria for marriage. And, of course, the question is, What will be the result? Of course, with a certain majority, the people decided something. But in time, this decision could, like others, prove not to be bad or good, I would say, but as such, that the people at some other time would have made a different decision. I wonder what if there is a result of such a decision, and such a legal arrangement, which is the result of the decision, that on Sundays we will have less open trades, we know that. In front of our eyes, we had warehouses, but that will mainly result in less access to goods in these shops for people and ultimately higher prices. That's not what the people who went to the referendum wanted. And that's what's gonna happen. Therefore, I would ask you not to wave "and Bianca" and say, look, such an order of the referendum is necessary, because people have proved that we are right to raise this unsolicited majority of these referendum questions. We know that in this mandate we have a slightly different parliamentary or government coalition, a majority of the government coalition than in the previous term, and that the opposition has fewer instruments. We were in the previous mandate to witness the interpolation. This has also started recently with changes in the coalition and so on. Since the opposition had fewer instruments in this mandate, they used the instrument that was most timely. It's a referendum. Because they have found that we have a referendum so arranged that the conditions are so low that a political issue can be provoked with a very low requirement either the number of Members' signatures or the signatures of citizens. And look, I think it's more about a handy and unique or current interest in triggering referendum issues than it is about some quality regulation of this issue. However, I think that this issue should be resolved in a qualitative manner and that some qualified different majority should be set up, either to trigger the referendum instrument or to determine at the end of this human will as well. And if we have had a little follow-up on how people's attitude towards this issue is very noticeable, it is very noticeable that people would like to leave to elected bodies some decisions that can be either politicized or misleading, or such a professional nature, that this direct democracy, which the referendum is, at certain times must work, especially in my opinion when it comes to the most important decisions of the country, such as the case of accession to the European Union, independence and so on, then it is necessary to ask people for direct democracy and decisions that are global. It is not, however, that this instrument, from the current state of power in Parliament, the government coalition and so on, is triggered and abused and needlessly politicised and ultimately generates material costs in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. As part of the time that you have notified the Group of Members, we are moving on to the debate on amendments to the position to be taken on the basis of the review of the amendments of 7.4.2004. It also helps to read and read the views you have on the bench. There are four amendments to the first position of the Constitutional Commission. The Constitutional Commission has drawn up two views. The first is the amendments under the 1st Slovenian People's Party, under the 2nd Slovenian Democratic Party parliamentary group, under the 3rd Slovenian People's Party, and under the 4rd group, the LDS coalition, the United List and DeSUS. I'm asking, who wants a word? Mr. Potts, Mr. Pache, Mr. Rokavec. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I would like, as one of the amendment's proponents, to introduce, within the framework of the solutions to the legislative referendum, the possibility of determining the required quorum as a condition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u95	Mr. Potch, I must apologize, it seems that we have both overlooked your parliamentary group's [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u96	But as one of the candidates, I can't? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u97	You've spent your time. [[...]] No, unfortunately, it was an agreement that it was within the time frame of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u98	Madam President, may I ask you, in the context of the general debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u99	Here we have exhausted the declared order of debaters. It has been agreed that within the time frame of the sent groups you will still have this available, please identify yourself to the amendments you have in the review of the amendments. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, then I won't take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u101	About the amendments, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u102	Just for a little while. The Group has tabled an amendment which will be editorial in nature but important for the further examination and drafting of the constitutional law. In fact, the original text states that for a subsequent referendum, at least 40,000 voters, of course 30 Members and Members and the Council of State, can give the initiative. 40,000 voters and the state council should be appropriately replaced by the word "or the state council". Indeed, this can be meant and can also be read to mean the cumulative majority of 40,000 and, of course, of the state world. That is why we believe that this editorial correction, "or the state world", should be made. Of course, the second amendment, which has been widely discussed today, refers to the deletion of the second paragraph to the first position. Indeed, we have said earlier that, already on referendum issues, a constitutional court is ruling on possible contradictions. However, it would not be acceptable to limit the referendum issue to financial consequences or similar. In fact, if we just look at the decision-making on the referendum issues, we can see that most of the referendums we had had were financial decision-making. And if that provision remained in the second paragraph, then in the Group of Members we believe that it would be a grave restriction on the rights of citizens and citizens to decide on a particular referendum issue. And the very financial consequences are those on which voters and voters must be given the opportunity to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u103	Thank you very much. It's 38 minutes till the end. On the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask Members and Members, who else would like a word on the proposal for opinions and amendments? Four, four times five minutes. By order of order, Mr Potrč, Sok, Drobnič, Majnik and Rokavec, everyone has five minutes at their disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I will continue the debate. I wanted to say that I am convinced that, in accordance with the arrangements in many other countries, it would be right to support the proposal tabled by the three parliamentary groups as an amendment, which some have already advocated, that a quorum should be a condition for the validity of the referendum. However, if this solution had not been adopted, at least that a minimum majority of all electorates and voters should be required to vote in order for the referendum outcome to be taken into account. These are warnings that have long been received by citizens and citizens and would increase the quality of decision-making at the referendum. Allow me to ask you two more questions. Today, several times it has been said that the reason for the referendums of the arrogance of power. He could have returned: the reason for the referendums could also be the arrogance of the opposition, one or the other. I am not saying just one or the other, because, by the logic of things in the way we have so far, the unitary signatures of Members and Members for each referendum, this can ultimately mean that if the majority, who can also have 59 Members and Members, is not at any time prepared to accept the demands of a minority who has 31 Members and Members, cannot decide, because its decision has always been checked for the referendum, and in the end we no longer have a national assembly, but we have all the issues of people's decision-making. I don't know if we're still parliamentary democracy or not. I deliberately croaked because it also needs to be cartoonized to see where such a thing could lead. And so far it has generally been in recent cases also: because you ignored one of our amendments - but even though it was fictional and meant nothing, and it was not true that if it were taken into account, there would be -, we were forced to collect signatures and request a referendum. Gentlemen, that is simply not true. It's true that there are different interests here. And it must be acknowledged, because I believe and I hope that we will sometimes be in different situations - me and my client have already been very often in different situations, I think about the ruling coalition and the opposition - and I would like a system that is as logical for both situations. This is not logical because it prevents the national assembly from deciding as it should, with full responsibility. Finally, I should also be allowed to draw attention to my debate on 10 February 2004 concerning which Mr Jerovšek spoke today about "my" journalists, which is, of course, the diversion and conversion of the first kind. Look, I said, it should be stressed that on the side of ruling parties, LDS, the United List and DeSUS, who want to resolve this issue in favour of Slovenia and its reputation in Europe, it is not just a constitutional court. On the side of the Constitutional Court, not me, most of the commentators are from the media. At that time, unfortunately or fortunately - my happiness and your sadness - was on the side of the Constitutional Court and the rule of law, to over 600 of the most respected intellectuals. Unfortunately, yours and luckily for me, more today, as well as cultural workers and so on, who have given their names and surnames for a position. The vast majority of civil society movements, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Council of Europe Human Rights Commissioner, the European Union Ombudsman and so on. That was my statement. And finally, I hope that Mr Jerovšek will not say that my journalists from Independent, Die Presse, Frankfurter Algemeine Zeitunga, Financial Times, New York Times, who wrote after a review of the paper on how he assesses the results of the referendum on Sunday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u105	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u106	Thank you very much. First, I would like to answer my colleague Gračner, who has appointed me in his debate. Therefore, in 1999 I was not a Member of Parliament, and New Slovenia was not in 1999 either, so that these three credits for the referendums would have to be attributed to other parties. But I can tell him that, as a citizen, I voted against this three and that, as a citizen, I understood very well what they were asking me. And today, so many years after this referendum, I see that citizens have made the right decision not to spend billions of marks and even more on a project that would give us a genuine headache today because of environmental pollution. That's the first one. Secondly, when I listen to all this debate, I am even more convinced that the previous legislative referendum in Slovenia should by no means be terminated. Only three of them have so far been, with four questions and talking about people, citizens, citizens, not understanding what they are voting on, but it seems to me to be underestimating our elections and voters. That's one. Second, when it comes to how things are handled in other countries, you know, because other things are different. I don't know a country that has a hunting law like ours. And no one pointed that out, but you settled the matter in a very specific way in Slovenia, that's what was said here. And we also have legislation that is the most burdensome, financially taxing work and at least capital, and other countries have it differently. By now setting this dilemma, how we have our referendums arranged, then we take everything and we talk about everything, if that's the case. As far as participation is concerned and it is the one - more of you have talked about it from the ruling coalition - that even those who do not go to the referendum think otherwise. I don't know because, of course, we don't see what they're thinking. However, it is difficult to say that more people will go to the referendum if he is the President of the State, but the Prime Minister does not know what kind of guardians and who else, and the forum goes on to call on his citizens and citizens to participate. I expect that this president of the country, if he can run again for the presidency and come into the second round, I don't know how he's gonna feel if someone starts calling people not to go to the polls or something. That's not appropriate. And if that is the way people are called upon to do so, then of course it is to undermine this fundamental democratic standard and not to be surprised that participation is as it is. Or that, of course, what people have decided at the referendum does not pass the law on the return of investments in telecommunications, is not a trade law, not yet. Of course, you can wave your hands and think, but I'm just thinking, and I'm sure that what people have actually said should also be enforced and brought into our legislation. It is impossible to adopt Article 90, which, in its second paragraph, states that a referendum cannot be carried out in the Emergency Action Act. So, in such a way, of course, it will be very difficult for us to reach a "any" referendum, knowing just how laws are adopted in this House. Almost everyone is taken under an emergency procedure, under an emergency measure, it is always said that these are urgent measures, as well as everyone is relying in some way on the implementation of the state budget. I know that in one of the federal states of the United States, in Texas, a long time ago at the referendum, people voted that they would have no more taxes. And the authorities have taken this will into account. They didn't collect taxes anymore, but they changed their minds quickly. That only applied for a while. But then the same people went back to the referendum, and they said, "Let's change this, we'll pay taxes because without it, it goes easy." But the government has allowed people to see the consequences of their decision, and you say that people don't know how to make the right decisions and that they don't know what it is. It's an underestimation of our constituents. Let me get this straight. I, too, often call our fellow Member Jaš Lukič the Evil One because it is also written in this list, and I do not know why he threatens to tear our ears off, whether it is an expression of his aggression or not, whether it is "soft" or "hard", then let him tell us that we will not come, I do not know, under threat from his side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u107	Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, the call for non-referendum is that you should not comply with Article 3 of the Constitution. That's problematic. If they are pronounced by a man who has a special city, yes, of course it is, it is a mockery of democracy and that is why such deductions come out as with Mr Potræ when the referendum is an obstacle to the exercise of power. Of course it is, as Parliament is also an obstacle to the enforcement of government decrees, it is. If that's what you're imagining, then shut down the Parliament. But you know how much less it'll cost, and then the government will do it on its own. He writes laws, he adopts them, now we get them by emergency procedure, I don't know, 16 or 22 laws by emergency procedure that don't at all meet the requirements of the emergency procedure. It's going this way, and it's a violation of the rules of procedure, it's going this way and, of course, it costs a lot of money in the end, and we have experience with the totalitarian system. It is, it is too late, and Parliament is too late, and we have this experience of how these delays can be bridged in the totalitarian system and you are happily moving forward. Any referendum that has so far been contrary to the ruling coalition's decision means an untrustworthy person, an untrustworthy person in that part, not a whole authority, an untrustworthy person in that part of the decision, and that is the correction of the national assembly. Any moralization in the sense that it is an abuse is unworthy, it is entirely fitting, it is perfectly correct. Either now, as the colleague has said, we need to look people in the head, or we can even continue to know more, or those who think for something more know more than just the people, that the people are ignorant, that they are wrong. However, they had the right to go, they went, especially at the last referendum, they made it clear, maybe not entirely about the law, maybe behind it is something else, mistrust, fear, anger, but surely the decision is legitimate and must be respected. Any speculation, because the rest of them, who didn't go to the elections, think otherwise. You know what, these are such primitive thoughts, you can sell this to some, I don't know the one who knows about parliamentary democracy in any way, in public opinion, in research, any such speculation is unworthy of the one he's pronouncing. [[...]] I can say by simple logic, according to the same arguments, that those who have not decided 70% are thinking 100% against the law that was passed. I can also say so, except for Mr Drnovsk, and Mr Kučan, who have clearly defined themselves that they will not go to the referendum and do not support this law or Mr Rob in the sense. And we can compare, of course, with countries in the European Union or in Europe, and it is right to compare, and compare, the effects, positive and negative, from the way in which they have formed referendums, and it is necessary to know whether they are federal states, whether they have a democracy or whether they have a presidential system or have a parliamentary system or have, I don't know, a system. And now to call for a much better opinion of civil society, the Lord, I don't know, over there, joining together under the bridge and calling for something good. [[...]] You know, we're gonna have to say something about civil society in this country sometime. This civil society in our country is paid 90% by the government. And we have said that this is unworthy, that this is far from the development of civil society. Civil society must receive independent resources without being paid by the State. We said, foundations, a greater possibility of allocation, a greater opportunity for citizens to give for such purposes and to be exempt from taxes. That's the right approach. And then this civil society will think with its head, not with the head of the government. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, wait, there's something on it. Of course, it's not everything, I'm not saying, but the one who pays you, the one who orders you, is the one who squeezes you. If you don't, he won't give you money next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs. Majnik to the floor. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u110	Thank you very much. If the referendum is indeed a correction of the work of the National Assembly, then we must all accept the amendment and prescribe for the referendum a quorum of 50%, otherwise the National Assembly itself makes the correction every four years in the elections. I understand that a minority feels bad about most people. That is why it is even more incomprehensible for me that this minority does not understand the other minority and collects political points and signs a referendum at its expense. We have also heard that some fundamental democratic norms are in force in the country. I agree. These standards are Parliament, they are a referendum and they are also human rights, and we have many other democratic standards. And hearing today that the referendum has been adopted by this Parliament and is hiding behind the majority in this Parliament and does not take on its responsibility, unless it is due to the call for a final referendum by 30 signatories, is a fraud to the public. Let each one stand behind his own signature. When we called the last referendum, we had quite a few debates on the dilemma, whether we respect one democratic norm or another. The first democratic norm to recognise the right to request a referendum. And secondly, to call a referendum on human rights. Many countries do not know the referendum that we have and are mainly consultative referendums. Wherever referendums are binding, quorum is prescribed. And a certain majority that can make decisions. However, they certainly do not recognise that a minority would decide on the majority of decisions. It would be very bad if we were to banalize the referendum to the point of being, say, Switzerland as an example. Today, some colleagues stressed how democratic Switzerland is. Given the fact that women only received election rights there in 1974, I do not agree that this would be a democratic country. The country is very cantonally divided. And dear colleagues, in Switzerland, they also know the referendum where they decide whether this priest and this priest will still be a priest, they also have referenda, whether this teacher will still be a teacher. If anyone wants to talk to us, let him speak out loud, or let him not set the example for us in Switzerland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u111	Thank you very much. And here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Perhaps just something about what Mr Ptrce has already done with the thesis on the arrogance of power and also the counter-thesis with the possibility of the arrogance of the opposition. It may also reflect the arrogance of the authorities against the opposition's arrogant response to the possibility of a referendum initiative and then, of course, a referendum. This is mainly about the question of the limitations of the referendum, more about the establishment of a system of balance and a system of brakes. And the issue of achieving the necessary consensus on the relation of position-opposition. I am sure that if this political culture comes to a higher level, then the abuse of the referendum will be less if there was any abuse of the referendum, but the abuse of the referendum will be less. Therefore, exclusively, it is not my fault, it is only my opponent's fault, it is very bad, it is also harmful for the development of parliamentary democracy forward in Slovenia. Each must first look for what he has done wrong in his own course, and then only the opponent can see what he himself has done. If we just look at the case of the last referendum, it was kind of an option. We were first tested with the postponement veto of the state council. Then there was an intermediate stage when the referendum initiative was already the possibility of an agreement on a constitutional law. So there were quite a few possibilities to find the right solution in the right way. Therefore, it is likely that this story that we have experienced over the past six months should be sufficiently instructive to establish an appropriate form of searching for consensus. And not to seek solutions in reducing the possibility of referendums, because the solution to the search on this path can also be a solution to the search in how far away it is from finding the necessary consensus on important political issues. But this is where I think you'd be bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude this debate. We will decide on the amendments and positions in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote at 4.20 p.m. I hereby terminate this agenda item and inform you that at 2.25 p.m. we will move on to agenda item 2 of the agenda, this is to consider the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law [[EPA 390 / III]] . I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation. So we'll continue at 2.25 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u114	Colleagues and colleagues, we're at 2. Agenda items - defence of the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a constitutional law (EPA 390/III). We will conclude the debate no later than 4:20 p.m. and then turn to votes. The vote today should not take up too much time; I recall this only because it will then have to be taken care of to prepare the hall for the ceremony, which will begin at 7 p.m. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 14 of the Constitution by means of a draft constitutional law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Mr Porc. At its 35th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly decided to initiate a procedure to amend Article 14 of the Constitution and to postpone the debate on the draft constitutional law and the decision on the proposal for the views of the Constitutional Commission to one of the following meetings. I now ask the proposer, my colleague Potrč, for a further explanation of the proposal, and then I will give the floor to the representative of the government, if he so wishes, and to the representatives of the groups of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose that we also support this initiative, which has been summarized by many Members and has been given by disabled organisations in Slovenia, by proposing that the 14th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which establishes equality before the law, is complemented by an explicit statement that the same rights are guaranteed to everyone in Slovenia, irrespective of disability. We agree that disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia is well regulated and given special attention. We can be proud of the legal and actual regulation of the situation of persons with disabilities in Slovenia, although it is true that, like all other disabled people, we can never guarantee such conditions and such rights so that their equality is fully guaranteed. However, we believe that a change to the Constitution, although not necessary, is useful to guarantee equality in particular regardless of disability. It is also important that we become full members of the European Union on 1 May and that we, too, will be subject to the European Constitution, which has been enshrined in its text, although not yet adopted, in the non-discrimination article also explicitly prohibits any inequality based on disability. A few days ago, we received letters from Members and Members of the Disabled Associations of Slovenia, which remind us of the letter they received from their international association, which would have been very encouraging for all persons with disabilities in Europe, as well as for the situation of Slovenia in the European Union if it had accepted this amendment, because it was an important incentive to ensure the protection and equality of persons with disabilities in the European Union as well. I expect that this support will be given to this decision now, and that we will finally accept this addition to the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We will now hear presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. First he'll get the word, fellow mags. A little guy, behind him is a colleague of Nigga's. Mr Barovic will present his views on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we have been thinking for some time about how to decide in this case whether to support this initiative to amend Article 24 of the Constitution or not, i.e. the provisions relating to discrimination or measures to prevent discrimination. In view of the fact that we have in our Constitution in Article 52 that disabled persons have protection in life and work training, which means positive discrimination, whose aim is certainly greater equality between people, we have been asked why this initiative for equality, when we have something more in the second part of the Constitution, meaning positive discrimination, than what is cited in Article 14, namely equality before the law that everyone is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political belief, material situation, birth, education, social status or any other personal circumstance. Disability could also be included in this other personal situation. Why am I stressing this so much more? Because the concept of disabled persons is forced out of vocabulary, it is not used because it has a negative seal, marking, and it would be much better to use another term. These are actually the reasons why there was a dilemma. And this dilemma existed equally on the Constitutional Commission, with constitutional judges or experts whom we asked whether this meant that the provision of Article 14 was in fact in the dispute, contrary to Article 52, if on the one hand we ensured equality and, on the other hand, positive discrimination. Whether such a provision and such marking will have a negative impact on the situation of persons with disabilities in society, in order to ensure equality alone, but not positive discrimination measures, which naturally favour the disabled or those so hampered in everyday life and work, in order to achieve in some sense this definition of ultimate equality, defined by sociology or economy. And that's why it's actually a question that's still hanging. However, at the end of our judgment, we still feel that this concept could be introduced or introduced. However, we will be quite frank to say that because disability organisations are also advocating that they want to implement in this way. And their voice needs to be listened to. We somehow expect this dictatorship and this change to have no effect. Maybe it's just the purpose of a message, and the disabled are in our society. You need to be sensitive to that. Let us hope that we will remain sensitive in this way when legislation is adopted, but it does speak for their real equality at every step: from birth, the preschool period, the school period, the preparation for employment, employment and the age period. This is a type of legislation, a huge number of areas where instruments to ensure this equality should be implemented in a manner of positive discrimination. Thus, we also had a law on the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities, which we have put into the procedure. We have been signed by the New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to put in place mechanisms as soon as possible to ensure at least some equality in the labour market so as not to increase unemployment, which is crucial to the population of people with disabilities or persons with disabilities. There was no such willingness at the time. Now, of course, this law is in the process of being adopted, it is a bit of a matter of European law. In a month or two, the government has now drawn all the laws it now wants quickly. harmonise so that we can be prepared and aware of this law. At this time, however, the number of unemployed is increasing in enormous numbers, which is problematic for people with disabilities. It would be far more important for the debate on persons with disabilities to be devoted to this law than for us to consider a constitutional change that will not have instrumental effects. She'll have some sort of awareness, but not anymore. This unemployment, which is now an inequality in the market, is a neurological point for people with disabilities. Employment is a basic, basic assumption to become a taxpayer, to ensure the same place on the market, in society, in leisure activities, so that, in the society of fellow thinkers or ordinary people in the neighborhood, I can also build and say, I can live with my own work. This is an important assumption for ensuring equality or greater social equality in society, as provided for by legal equality. Therefore, the problem is not in the constitution, at least in Article 14, because the current line of Article 14, in some sense, could allow this type of prohibition of discrimination or equality, but in the real and actual policy of equalizing equal opportunities. This, however, requires action elsewhere, not in this article. Nevertheless, we have decided that this change in the New Slovenia Group should be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u118	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Now she has the word of a colleague of Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-welcome colleagues and colleagues, Members of Parliament. In the UK Group, we will be proposing to initiate a constitutional change procedure, Article 14, which speaks of equality before the law and says that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, irrespective of any other personal circumstances such as nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs, material status, birth, education, social situation and, of course, disability. 42 Members and Members signed this initiative in the National Assembly. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will fully support this proposal. It is also due to the fact that this proposal has been discussed in all organisations, societies and civil non-governmental organisations and that it has been reached with almost complete consensus in this area that this word of disability is, however, inserted into an article relating to human rights. It is also important to know that the European Disability Forum very much agrees and that the matter is closely monitored and believes that we will be one of the leading countries in this area in the European Union. Significant movements have taken place in the field of disability protection and, above all, there has been an overemphasis based on the mercy and alleged infirmity of persons with disabilities to be cared for. The situation has improved so much that today we are talking about the integration of people with disabilities in society. This idea is based on the fact that people with disabilities have the right to family and life in a normal living environment, that they have achieved the necessary preparations for independent living and training and adaptation to the environment at all levels and in a completely different way in reality than ever before. Rehabilitation, educational programs have changed, increasingly training disabled people for independent and independent normal life. This is followed by changes in the operation and extension of services, the development of technical tools and the development of additional resources for disabled persons. Major changes in policy and mentality can be summed up in some of the key developments that have led to today's proposal. The first step was taken in 1981 when the International Year of Disabled Persons established the password: Perfect cooperation and equality. Between 1983 and 1992, the United Nations declared a decade of disabled persons, after which the standard of rules for equal opportunities for disabled persons was adopted and later adopted in the 1993 National Assembly. These have also been very active in practice, with a number of concrete measures for implementation in the environment. The State is responsible for the preparation and effectiveness of disability inclusion programmes in society, as it has the opportunity to do so through the system of framework programmes and incentive instruments. There's a lot that's already been done. The law on the use of the Slovenian professional language, which grants deaf persons the right to use the Slovenian sign language and the right to interpretation for sign language, has been adopted. This will improve the possibility of access to appropriate education and also the possibility of professional inclusion of persons with disabilities in society. The Disability Organisations Act has been adopted, which also effectively legislates the Eighteenth Standard Rule on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, which discusses the organisations of persons with disabilities. A law on the equalization of the disabled is also being drawn up and a fundamental principle of non-discrimination is being implemented, specific measures such as the provision of sign language, adaptation of jobs, accessibility of websites, accessibility of reading and organisation in the environment are needed. In February, we discussed the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act in the National Assembly. In life, not only words, rules, laws, guidelines are enough but also things can be realized in practice. What is important in this is also what represents the general conditions and rights of persons with disabilities and identifies the ways and possibilities of their livelihood. In the UK Group, we strongly support the amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, so that disability will be explicitly mentioned among the reasons for the prohibition of discrimination, and this article also constitutes a substantive supplement to Article 52, which is further divided. The task of all of us Members of the National Assembly is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] awareness of the need to equalise opportunities for people with disabilities. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u120	Thank you very much, colleague Silva Montenegro. Now I have the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, colleague Bogdan Barovic. He's been followed by a fellow Cuckoo. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the proposal to supplement Article 14. The conclusion, similar to that of all, is that Article 14, which defines human rights and equality, is clear enough for this category as well. At the same time, it is right that disability is defined in particular in Article 52. We have considered this proposal from both sides in the Slovenian National Party. On the one hand, we sceptically doubted whether this term would be written down or not, because pressure could happen to start to appear, in order to define in the Constitution any other categories, which, at least some, would probably not be constitutional. At the same time, we thought that the word disability would not have been introduced in Article 14 in order not to have the opposite effect in order to actually discriminate against a category. On the other hand, they have convinced us, for the first time, of the fact that this brings us closer to the draft European Constitutional Charter if this country has decided to go to Europe and will also respect the rules of the game. On the other hand, as a member of the Slovenian National Party, I am a co-signatory of this proposal and have also told respected colleagues and colleagues that my personal assessment is that in the world, in the market economy and in view of the place where I am at home, I know that it is huge and that there will be a lot of disabled people, especially disabled workers. There are also many places in Slovenia where, unfortunately, disability is given to people at birth due to such or different circumstances. I am therefore personally convinced, as a member of the Slovenian National Party, that the right word is disability in Article 14, because I understand it by highlighting the actual category that will count and already count more and more people. At the same time, dear colleagues and colleagues, I cannot help but remind you once again, in the ruling coalition, that we hope and wish that the word will not only be a cosmetic aid, but that it will experience action. In 2000, the Slovenian National Party proposed to establish a mother labour force for disability issues. At that time, most of the candidates from the ruling coalition rejected this proposal and assessed that the parent labour body was not necessary. A few months ago, a colleague of Sašo Peca introduced a law on animal protection, which included a category of disabled persons linked to dogs of blind guides. You have also rejected this comment of his, respected colleagues and colleagues. I hope it doesn't happen from now on. And I want someone who will join us in the new mandate of the National Assembly to remain in memory. Whether the word is written down or not, actions are necessary and these actions can be proved together more easily if you try again in the new term or if you try to create a mother's working body for the disabled and by doing so prove that our purpose and attitude towards them are good. As it is said, the Slovenian National Party will not object to the amendment of Article 14.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u122	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. If I see it right, my friend will be a magician. A viscous? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Tukjat, as recorded, will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, followed by his colleague Malovre. Let's get my buddy Tucky first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members and all present! However, when we talk about the rights of persons with disabilities, it is necessary to distinguish first between such discrimination and other discrimination, between negative and positive discrimination. Negative discrimination is one we must not allow. I'll give you a banal case. If two people came to the restaurant, healthy and disabled, let's say for the same money they both ordered lunch, and a disabled person would have had a worse lunch than a healthy one. That would be negative discrimination. Or that they wouldn't leave him as a disabled person at some place or some theater or something. In short, Article 14 of the Constitution prevents this. And that's right. Article 14 of the Constitution already speaks and lists certain circumstances and finally states, and all other personal circumstances are also meant here. Thus, any personal circumstances should not be the reason for the State to be discriminated against in any way or to be discriminated against in any way. We all know that disability is also meant among these circumstances. However, positive discrimination means that we do not treat a disabled person as a healthy person, but that we offer him something more than others, that he has the advantage. If there is no empty space on the bus, everyone is busy, and a disabled person comes along, then it is appropriate for a healthy young man to stand up and offer a seat for a disabled person. Well, a disabled person must have more rights than other people do. And that's positive discrimination. But this discrimination is not referred to in Article 14, paragraph 52, which states in a completely different context: Disabled persons are provided with protection and training for work in accordance with the law. Children with disabilities in physical or mental development and other severely affected persons have the right to education and training for the activity of life in society. The education and training referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be financed from public funds. That's all it says in the constitution about positive discrimination against people with disabilities. There are two errors in this constitution, or inconsistencies. First time. That only training for work and education is mentioned here. Only to these two categories, to these two values persons with disabilities have a right, a special right, that is to say, are positively discriminated against. But there are many other things that are even more important. Or at least as important as these. Let me mention just two categories of values. That is, the right to work, to work, especially when this job also means therapeutic employment. Persons with disabilities are primarily in the category of mental disability, bound to work as therapy. This right is nowhere, not in the constitution, nor in the laws, nor is it in practice. The second category of rights is aid for obstruction. This is the right to a wheelchair, and so on, to a crutch, if it is legless, the right to a special computer, if it is blind, the right to other devices and the right to a lift, for example, if the paraplegic is to come from the ground floor to the first floor. There are no such rights anywhere. And that's an extremely important right. The right to reduce obstacles or the right to state aid in addressing obstacles. While some of these rights are listed in the field of compulsory health insurance, this is a right, this is an area that is part of positive discrimination and would be considered in addition to the article 52. And there's another problem here. All they talk about is disabled people. This concept, as has been said before, has been abandoned in the world or has been abandoned for a long time. For the first time because it has a negative connotation, and for the second time because it does not capture the entire population that needs this positive discrimination. Persons who are obstructed mean a much broader group than people with disabilities. All the elderly who are intruded, chained to bed, injured and so on. They're not disabled. They don't have disability status yet, maybe they'll never get that status. But they're either way or even more obstructed. So there's obviously an attempt here to solve the problem, but the attempt is an attempt, as we respect it, but the solution is very bad. Some disability organisations have been listed, which, of course, support this, and I should read here a paragraph from a representative of another disability organisation who says: The applicants expect too much from the addition of Article 14. While this constitutional provision clearly prohibits negative discrimination, it does not in itself solve problems that can only be solved through positive discrimination against persons with disabilities. Ensuring their specific rights, which are wider than the Constitution recognises to people who are not disabled, does not stem from the constitutional principle of equality, as set out in Article 14, but from the principle of the social state. Special social and other rights of persons with disabilities, their full participation in society, the protection of persons with disabilities, assistance in overcoming obstacles, assistance in training, employment, special care for people with disabilities and so on, therefore they are not subject to Article 14 of the Constitution, such as the introduction of the chapter on human rights and fundamental freedoms, but have their basis in the principle of the social state and in Article 52 of the Constitution, which deals with the rights of persons with disabilities. So here we are in some kind of awkward situation. The Constitution, which is supposed to be an extremely important document and which is supposed to be extremely serious, we are working on a way to agree to a formulation that will not benefit us, nor will it ultimately harm us. And we're just going to accept it so that we don't look like people who somehow don't understand disabled people and stuff. Such an approach is not the most productive, not even to solve the problems of people with disabilities. I mention this in order to make it clear, however, that there is a problem of disabled persons, the problem of disabled persons, that this problem is not resolved and that we will not solve it with this proposal. Of course, the proposal cannot be amended because the proposal refers to Article 14. All that I'm saying right now, we've been studying how to incorporate into the change in the Constitution itself, and it's not possible because it's a completely different category of definitions and a completely different article of the Constitution. Of course, we will not oppose it, as I said, because we do not gain anything, nor will it be harmful for the disabled to add it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u124	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. My friend Malovre. Mr Malovr will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and its colleague, Levič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u125	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Messengers and Members! In our parliamentary group, the Slovenian People's Party, we supported the proposal at the November meeting last year to initiate the procedure for amending Article 14. We voted in favour of the proposal, and we also support the substantive position taken by the Constitutional Commission to change this area. In the debates of the Constitutional Commission and the views of the section, it was possible to identify some opinions that the general article on non-discrimination was sufficient. These opinions are based on the view that they may be within the scope of the Article 14 dictatorship, which reads as follows: [[Quote]] "or any other circumstance." [[End quote]] We read as a ban on any discrimination, i.e. discrimination due to disability. From a formal legal point of view, however, practice has shown that legal acts and programming documents that explicitly do not contain prohibitions of discriminatory treatment due to disability do not have the desired effects. In Slovenia, the protection of people with disabilities is given a lot of attention, both by the country and its authorities and the social partners and by very active NGOs. In Europe, Slovenia has, as has already been said today, even one of the leading roles in the field of disability policy. However, this does not mean that there is no more to be done. We agree with the proposaler that protection against discrimination needs to be regulated more legally. The example of many European countries also speaks for this. Less than a month separates us from joining the European Union. The fight against social exclusion represents one of the European Union's strategic objectives in the first decade of the 21st century. The European Union is aware of the importance of universal awareness of the discriminatory circumstances faced by persons with disabilities and of their involvement in all spheres of social, economic, political and cultural life. The Madrid Declaration, a 2002 document of the European Union, which contains a vision of the European Union's action in the field of policy towards persons with disabilities, summarises all its essence in this brief sense: "The non-discrimination in relation to positive measures brings social inclusion." I would like to highlight another document of the European Union, the so-called European Constitution, which includes the prohibition of discrimination due to disability in two places. The European Union has made an important step in its efforts to ensure the successful social inclusion of people with disabilities through the dictatorship of the European Constitution in this area. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we support the provision of equal opportunities for people with disabilities. The position of the Constitutional Commission relating to the amendment or amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Levič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. He then concluded with the presentation of the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. First of all, Comrade Levich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u127	Thank you very much. In all areas, the Slovenian State harmonises Slovenian legislation with European law and also with the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union. It would also be logical and understandable to follow this principle in the field of constitutional change. The new European Union Constitutional Treaty also mentions disability in two non-discriminatory articles. However, this is not a fundamental reason why we supported this proposal to amend the Constitution in the Young Slovenia Party, namely the reference to disability in the non-discrimination article. All over the world and in Slovenia, people with disabilities face discrimination in various areas during all life periods. Very vulnerable groups need to be specifically protected, which is not possible only through sectoral legislation, which is slowly regulated over the years in Slovenia. However, well-regulated sectoral legislation can only provide the legal basis of the Constitution with a non-discriminatory article which, in our view, must also contain disability as a reason for non-discrimination. It may seem that disability is never and cannot be a reason for discrimination, but it is every disabled person who can tell you that he has ever been engaged or treated differently from other people. We have only recently passed a sign language law that allows deaf and deaf people to use sign language in their dealings with state and municipal authorities. We have recently completed the law on the protection of animals allowing dogs, guides of the blind, entry into public spaces, and could even list. These small and insignificant innovations, which are for a normal person something self-evident, can make life easier and better for the disabled. The disabled certainly do not view themselves as people in need of special protection. That's how we think about them, just the other people. We only want conditions for a full and quality life in order to be treated in the same way as all other people in order to enable them to have the same rights and equal opportunities. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that the general non-discrimination clause in the Constitution is unfortunately not broad enough, as experience in the European Union also shows, as people with disabilities often need special measures to participate equally in the exercise of equal opportunities. Such constitutional protection, which, in our view, is a basic civilisation standard, would also put us at the side of countries that have already taken care of the protection of disabled persons: Germany, Finland, Canada, United Kingdom. So the countries we like to take for granted. We will therefore support the amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution in the Young Slovenia Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u128	As it is said, the views of the parliamentary groups will now be decided by a colleague of Germić, with a presentation of the position of the Liberal Democracy Club, and then we will go to a brief discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia has already supported the proposal to amend Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which should include the concept of disability in the article on equality before the law, as part of its position presented at the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. On the basis of the position presented on 27 November 2003 and on the basis of the debate on the Constitutional Commission, we will also support the proposal by the Constitutional Commission that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt a position to adopt the proposed text amending Article 14 of the Constitution. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we have also carefully examined the arguments of the section of the Constitutional Commission which it prepared for decision at the 35th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, as well as the definition of the positions of the parliamentary groups for the 14th meeting of the Constitutional Commission. In doing so, we would like to point out that our opinion of support for this amendment is also related to the decision of the National Assembly, which at its 35th extraordinary meeting decided to initiate the procedure for amending Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia without a vote. In doing so, we would like to reiterate that disabled persons, as part of the population, represent a very diverse social group, which can be partially or substantially hampered in the performance of daily duties. The average proportion of disabled persons in the population of the Member States of the European Union is 14%, with an average employment rate of only 60% compared to non-disabled persons. The fact is, therefore, that people with disabilities around the world are still deprived of basic human rights, are often excluded from social life and discriminated against. The importance of the quality integration of people with disabilities into society has gained an increasing weight over the years and development. At the same time, the concept of disability has changed significantly over the past years and decades and thus the concept of caring for people with disabilities and their values. The imperative of democratic society, the rule of law and social states is to prevent discrimination between individuals and the social group by means of its provisions. For these reasons, we also understand the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which would explicitly state that in Slovenia the same human rights and fundamental freedoms are also guaranteed to everyone on the basis of disability. Persons with disabilities are also specifically dealt with in international acts and documents. The United Nations documents, in particular all six human rights conventions, include persons with disabilities, but the Member States of the United Nations are soon aware that the general anti-discrimination rules, similar to our general article on discrimination in Article 14 of the Constitution, are not sufficient for the effective and effective provision of equal opportunities for persons with disabilities. Therefore, they have also begun to prepare a convention to ensure the protection and promotion of the human rights of persons with disabilities. In this regard, the European Parliament has also adopted a resolution calling on the Members of the United Nations to include at least eight sets of rights for persons with disabilities in the future and to implement control mechanisms for the enforcement of these. The Madrid Declaration, which is a fundamental framework for disability policy, has made it clear that the principle of non-discrimination will only result in the actual social inclusion of persons with disabilities, together with positive measures. The proposal to amend Article 14 of the Constitution is in line with European disability policy. The so-called anti-discrimination article of the 1999 Amsterdam Treaty, which includes the concept of disability, allows the European Union to take active action and to give initiatives to combat discrimination even in the event of disability. This article represents the legal basis for anti-discrimination rules of the European Union, while at the same time disability is increasingly integrated and fully integrated into the major general initiatives of the European Union. A number of European countries followed a more intensive European disability policy, as they included the concept of disability in the articles on equality before the law of their constitutions. This is to stress that it is not about regulating the rights of persons with disabilities, but about the application of the full civilisation principle of non-discrimination. The Republic of Slovenia must also have this in front of its eyes. Given that the adoption of the Disability Organisations Act is comparable to the most developed European countries, it should also ensure satisfactory protection against discrimination, particularly as it is a matter of civilisation. An additional reason to support the amendment of the Slovenian Constitution is the fact that the draft Constitution Treaty for Europe, with the White Charter on Fundamental Rights of the European Union, under the heading Equality, in an article entitled Non-discriminationa, also prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability, which is exactly the same as the proposal to amend Article 14 of the Slovenian Constitution. The year 2003 was marked as the year of disabled persons, in particular with a view to warning that rights and non-discrimination of disabled persons are guaranteed at the declaration level and that the actual situation is completely different. We therefore believe that it is right for Slovenia to join European constitutional trends and thus show that it truly supports equal opportunities for people with disabilities. Despite the concerns we have at the LDS, that this is not an urgent change of constitution and that the objective of the proposed amendment is fully attainable already through a proper interpretation of the current constitutional provisions, we will support the position of the Constitutional Commission in order to adopt the proposed text of the amendment to Article 14 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u130	Thank you very much. With your performance, we have concluded a presentation of the views of the delegations. Now we're going to a brief discussion. Most of the colleagues on my list aren't in the hall, and I'll give them my word. First, colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! Human rights are, in the first place, the legal instrument for the protection of fundamental human values, with which freedom, dignity and, above all, equality are most often highlighted. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we expect the National Assembly to support the proposed proposal to amend the Constitution, where it would also directly highlight the rights of persons with disabilities and thus ensure equality of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The initiative to adopt the amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution was given by national disability organisations and was unanimously supported by the Council of Disability Organisations and, following the last study visit by representatives of Slovenian disability organisations in Brussels, by the European Disability Forum. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not reject the possibility of people with disabilities achieving the same rights in society as other people and thus participate equally in everyday life and thereby assume all the rights and obligations they derive from them. With such a constitutional change, Slovenia would become one of the leading countries in the field of disability. It also follows compliance with the future European Constitution, which will contain more binding guidelines on non-discrimination based on disability. It is also right that Slovenia is pursuing European objectives in this area. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that it makes sense, irrespective of the general norm, which states in the said article of the Constitution that the same human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed to all, that is, to the disabled, to create such fundamental foundations and measures that would explicitly dictate equal cooperation and treatment of persons with disabilities in all spheres of life. Despite the general constitutional prohibition of discrimination, people with disabilities are discriminated against in certain situations. Therefore, we do not oppose the proposed amendment to explicitly include persons with disabilities in the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, this is one of the constitutional provisions that we can say with considerable certainty that it will receive all the general support in this national assembly, which is not very often. I'm glad you did. I also support this change. On the one hand, I understand the legal profession, which considers this special mention of disability to be irrelevant, because it is already included in other provisions of the Constitution. But it's not that important, is it really legally easy, how can I say it's controversial? It is important that we find together that this must be done, that we must do so in order to somehow give greater weight to the problems of the disabled and that we should show ourselves that there is also more to be done in the Slovenian space for this area. When Europe is mentioned so many times, especially when we are talking about rights, even duties, let me say a few words about the future European Constitutional Treaty, because I have been involved. Disability is not mentioned twice, repeatedly, three times, for example. I have participated in the Complementary Competence Group, and there has also developed a debate on these issues, how much the European Union can do or does do about disability. Here, in the section on non-discrimination and citizenship, where the issue of the above-mentioned issues is concerned, we have written down in the Constitutional Treaty, quote part of this provision of Article 3/8, "Without prejudice to other provisions of the Constitution and within the limits of the competence of the Union, the Council of Ministers, by means of European laws or framework European laws, may take the necessary measures to combat discrimination based on sex, race, nationality, religion, disability." It is more than obvious, therefore, that this provision contained in the Constitutional Treaty will also take on a specific form, either within the framework of European laws or in the framework of European laws. Thus, if we introduce some addition to our Constitution in this Article 14, we are doing the right thing. I would also like to say that we added another article to this group, Article 2/26, in the Equality chapter, which speaks of the inclusion of persons with disabilities, which reads as follows: "The Union recognises and respects the rights of persons with disabilities to measures to ensure their independence, social and professional integration and the participation of the living community." It is said that more than enough reasons for all of us to find together that in fact certain concerns of the Slovenian legal profession cannot prevent us from concluding as we are today. Similarly, in the Committee of the European Parliament, which is responsible for employment and social affairs, we are both here with a German colleague and, of course, we can both confirm that the interest of this Committee in the field of persons with disabilities is clearly expressed in many of the materials that this Committee prepares or accepts. And there's something else I'd like to say in the end. I am pleased with this unity when we speak of a constitutional provision, and I will be even more pleased with the unity when it comes to specific matters, for specific cases involving persons with disabilities, by changing tax rates to a higher level of requirements when it comes to the construction of buildings when it comes to employment when it comes to labour issues. We are very quick to unify at the principle level, which is of course very important, and I would be happy to see such unity achieved even when we talk about specific issues that concern people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u134	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Brace. Comrade Levich, would you like another word? No, no, no. My colleague Ana Maria Tisovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first say that I am not the biggest supporter of changes in the constitution. However, now that the change has come, I will support this amendment in Article 14, which is to stress disability once again. I am of the opinion that our constitution has already provided the disabled with its own place, but I do not think that will harm them. But let me say my opinion about other things. It is much more important how our society will accept people with disabilities and how it will allow them to participate in social processes, so that they will actively engage in society with their capabilities and powers. I therefore believe that particular attention should be paid to all these laws and regulations that enable them to become more active in society. I hope that we will also find here a common language and support the law on the integration of persons with disabilities into work organisations and other social activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Would you like another word, mate Tsukati? [[No, no, ……]] Colleague Sonja Areh, again? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u137	President, thank you for your word. I am also pleased to hear from colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the parliamentary groups, who will support the amendment or a reference to a change in the Constitution, which will in an exceptional way include the word 'disability' in article 14 of the Constitution, which speaks of equality before the law. I have also been happy to read the letters that have come to our address by the disabled organisations, and in particular the European Disability Forum, which underlines the fact that Slovenia will take a very positive step by mentioning disability in Article 14 of its Constitution, which will also serve as an orientation for them to make similar changes in legislation in other countries of the European Union. Comrade Ljubo Germič spoke about this, also Dr Brejc, about plans or about the new European Constitution and, of course, with the amendment of Article 14 of our Constitution, we could come to compatibility in this work. As the world of disabled organisations in Slovenia wrote, I was also surprised by the separate opinion of Dr. Iglicar, who says [[Quote]] That "there is no need to change since the area of equality of human rights, irrespective of disability in the Constitution, is already sufficiently regulated. The argument that this area will be governed by the new European Constitution and, therefore, should also be our constitution is not true, since this area is already covered by Article 52 of the Constitution." [[End quote]] I fully agree with the Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, which say that this claim is professionally flawed, because the 52nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution does not address the field of human rights, but barely deals satisfactorily with social rights in the field of disability. And, as they say, we are implementing this position from the standards of the new European Constitution, which explicitly distinguishes the social rights of persons with disabilities from their human rights, among which non-discrimination based on disability is particularly highlighted. It is said that only the completion of Article 14 with disabilities will make a substantial addition to the substantive meaning of Article 52 and give it a relevant meaning. Let me conclude by saying that I am pleased that we appear to be very united; with this change in the Constitution Slovenia will take an important step to ensure that disability, as a group of citizens and citizens, is not discriminated against as an individual in its daily life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u138	Thank you very much. With your performance, we could close the debate, and there are no other applicants. A colleague of mags. If I could give him my word, I'd give it to him if he wasn't too long. Please, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u139	Thank you very much for your words, for your attention, or for giving me your word because I missed out on other obligations in the deadline. Therefore, the placement of this Article 14 or the amendment of this Article should be taken into account in the context of the circumstances taking place in our society. Well, at the principle level, I think that this discrimination is also prevented on the basis of a normative provision already in Article 14, which is why it is not so important. It should be noted, however, that there is a possibility and need to supplement Article 52 of the Constitution, for which there is no real initiative. However, even if we do not have this, we have in some sense the basic thing to do, but in other areas, we can regulate, in particular, the rules that mean the implementation or implementation of the constitutional principle, firstly, equality or prohibition of discrimination and, secondly, positive measures to ensure equality - the final ones that I have talked about - in integrating into society. How can we expect the regulation of this or the implementation of the constitutional principle of equality when the current executive authority abolishes information offices of great importance for the conduct of vocational training, preparation for employment and more? How can we ensure equality if only one of those classrooms and teaching companies lives in Slovenia because there is no appropriate willingness by the executive branch to ensure this? How can we ensure that virtually a few thousand people with disabilities are excluded from the active unemployment register and not included in the active employment policy are prepared for employment in order to achieve equal opportunities in the labour market? Unfortunately, we already have over 20,000 unemployed people, this is a specific issue of equality. The rules for disabled companies - I get a letter complaining that disabled companies are excluded from public tenders so that they can work, get a job and thus provide jobs for disabled people. They've been ruled out - again, executive power. I don't know what the criteria are. Or is it because existing or other laws give them enough opportunities to work on the market? Of course, that's not true. Or that only 5% of disabled people are involved in professional rehabilitation. Vocational rehabilitation for each disabled person is vital for re-engagement. We should ensure that everyone is included in at least one occupational rehabilitation programme, but not that from the annual, I don't know, defined disabled persons a little over a thousand to include a few dozen. These are issues of equality, respected colleagues and colleagues. These are really issues of equality. And as you can see, the constitutional provision itself will not help to ensure equality, so it is necessary to have the will to do so, knowledge, conviction and efforts must be made to ensure that the implementing rules also provide for it in the field. With all these institutions, offices, services that provide this assistance, there is a job to be properly integrated into other segments of life. And until that happens, the debate in the National Assembly will also be unproductive. As I have already said, it would be much better if instead of a broad debate on Article 14 we held a debate or continued discussion, continued reading of the law - as you said - professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. Our marriage was different, about the promotion of the employment of disabled people. I think operationally it's a much more appropriate address, and we'd do it. But if this constitutional provision encourages a person’s thinking, perhaps even these ministers in this remaining time available will be welcome, if not, but it is a real waste of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u140	I will now conclude the debate on the proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure with the draft constitutional law, EPA 390-III. At 16:00 and 20 minutes, we'll move on to the vote of the assembly. - I warn you again - and then today we concluded the work, allowing you to prepare the hall for the ceremony. In accordance with the agreement of the Commission, which made proposals to mark our entry into NATO and the EU, you won the event and confirmed it by an informal brand college. These badges shall be given to Members and Members of the National Assembly, other participants, invited today. Please take them. After today’s session, we will see to it that the materials are removed from your desk if you feel that there is something urgent, something important, please take care of it earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u141	We'll continue today's work. Before we stop it, we will first decide on the points that were on the agenda yesterday, then on those that were today. I'll explain why it went yesterday. I don't think there are any problems and the National Assembly can continue. I suggest we move on to where we ended up yesterday. Can I have your attention, please? I think it was right, the best thing to do is to interrupt yesterday's meeting, so that we could go to college today, or else we could look at where the misunderstanding was yesterday when we made the decision. There was a misunderstanding in the fact that the rapporteur published a "position" in a single "position" in all the material "positions". Of course, I led the debate, as did the materials on the table, using the plural, and explained in all the votes that we will vote on the positions, the first, the second, the third. Even if you look at the SDS amendment, he had a proposal for a position. I don't think the National Assembly was misled by any of the decisions. That way, we could now make a third decision. However, we have found, of course, that a majority was not needed except for one of the positions. This will, of course, have to be taken into account by the Constitutional Commission in its further work. The fact is, once again, that we are far from needed for the adoption of constitutional law. Of course, 60 votes and more are needed for him, and these were not nearly in yesterday's vote. Thus, we have now suspended the decision on the third position, and we still have to decide on it and then move on to the next items on the agenda. So we're in the third position. Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u142	Here I would add another procedural initiative, namely, in some of the subsequent EPAs, there are also several positions in the works under the same EPO, under the same topic. If we take individual chapters of this position separately, it may happen that one article will be adopted, the other one will not - the content is certainly dependent, linked to one whole. And please, despite the fact that the working material is so, I would say confusing in this sense, that you put each EPO separately as one position to the vote in the next.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u143	Only colleague Tsukati, of course I was aware of this problem, even in the professional service. It is no different than to vote, of course, on one, the other, separately, but, of course, the National Assembly risks if one is voted on and the other is not to take into account the unconsistency which the Constitutional Commission must take into account in its further work prior to the last phase of the constitutional audit procedure. This has already happened to us. So let's go to the vote and we'll be careful. And today, as I lead the vote, I will lead it very slowly, even slower than yesterday, so that any moment will be clear about what we are voting about, I will tell you in advance what decisions we will have at each point, and if there is any question, we will clear it before that. We are now voting on the third position of the Constitutional Commission as a whole at agenda item 5, EPA 702-III. We're voting. 70 in attendance, 45 in and 21 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 21.]] Nor did this position get the required majority. This will be taken into account by the Constitutional Commission in its work. At this point, it's impossible to predict how she's going to decide. Let's move on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - this is a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution by drafting the constitutional law EPA 365 /III. A perfect peace in the hall. Are we making a decision, please? [[...]] That's right, only the hand should be raised in time. No, no. [[...]] No, no. No, no, no! But you know my very consistent position, if the hand is raised, it is also important to warn the President. Peace in the hall. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure with the draft constitutional law EPA 365/III. I will lead him, so we will move on to a decision on the amendment tabled to the position of the Constitutional Commission, which we will lead on the basis of an amendment review of 6.4. Do you all have this document in front of you? Do we know what we're deciding? The SDS MP group has tabled an amendment. The SDS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to be decided on. Is that clear? It's about EPA 365 / III, equality of women. We are in the middle of a constitutional change procedure and [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] If adopted, the amendment replaces the position of the Constitutional Commission. [[...]] I will read it so that there will be no misunderstandings: 'The proposed text of the amendment of Article 44 of the Constitution, to be formulated as a new fourth paragraph of Article 43 of the Constitution, with the word'may' being deleted and, at the end of the sentence, 'and in the integration into education for individual careers'. "Anyone wants to explain their vote before deciding on the amendment? Nobody. Yes! Please, Shirtz's colleague. Just raise your hands a little higher, and I'll be more aware of your please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u144	Thank you very much. To the extent that this amendment would have voted, as has already been said yesterday, in respect of all the intentions behind it, so that the meaning of the specific measures could be extended to other areas, not only to the question of electoral rights, I would point out that there would be severe nonconsistentness, since the expansion of the concept of possibility, as proposed by the parliamentary group or by Dr France Tsukati, is included in the article on electoral rights. That's what paragraph 43 says. And 43rd Article speaks of electoral rights being universal and equal and that every citizen who has reached the age of 18 has the right to vote and be loved. The problem would certainly be very big if the addition to the right to vote was to allow the possibility that specific measures could also be applied to the integration of specific vocational education in a different field, which means that they are in the field of education and guidance beyond the context of this Article. And once again, I understand the intention of the proposer, I absolutely agree with her, and there are problems here in practice, but it is not possible to place this supplement in Article 43. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u145	Does anyone else want to explain their voice? Mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The amendment we're talking about will not be supported. There are two fundamental reasons for this: the first is that Article 43 speaks of electoral rights; the second part of the amendment, the final part, speaks of integration in education for particular professional purposes. That seems like a formal reason. There is another which, in my view, is more essential; however, it is that women are involved in the education process quite equally and that we do not see unequal opportunities for women and men to be involved in the education process. If there is a profession, and this is why, in particular, studies in colleges have been pifeminized, it certainly is in those days before they were introduced into high school graduation and new opportunities or entry requirements, which is in fact an essential reason for such a proposal, because I know it from some of the hearings on the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. We are talking about equal opportunities for loved functions, not equal opportunities for inclusion in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u147	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. I guess I have to explain our amendment one more time, because many were not in the National Assembly at the time. In fact, two years ago or 2002 we passed a law on equal opportunities for women and men, and in Article 1, paragraph 1 already states: "This law lays down common ground for improving the situation of women and creating equal opportunities for women and men in the political, economic, social, educational" - and so on - "the field". Of course, if preparations for elections, candidatures, entry into the political environment, into a political world where decision-making is, of course, possible and where certain mechanisms need to be provided, we will also provide women's quotas, then it is also necessary to allow plurality to enter the vocational world for higher education, because this is another area of decision-making and another area where life is created. And because of the way that they have this arranged around the world, we have proposed that this be complemented and treated in an integrated manner. That was the only question. Of course, if you do not support this amendment, the world will not fail. And even if the basic proposal, which is here to change the constitution, will not fail the world, nor will Slovenia, because in our view this is not such a fateful change.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u149	I see that no one wants to explain themselves to the vote anymore, so we can move on to the vote. I see there's not enough attention again. We are ahead of the vote on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. 70 present, 22 for, 43 versus. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Free 43.]] He didn't get the required majority. Since the amendment has not been adopted, we decide on the position of the Constitutional Commission. Would anyone like to explain the vote on the position of the Constitutional Commission? The position of the Constitutional Commission shall be as follows: "The proposed text of the amendment of Article 44 of the Constitution shall be formulated as a new fourth paragraph of Article 43 of the Constitution and the word may be deleted. "Please, Master of Purity. I'm reading so there won't be any misunderstandings. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support this position of the Constitutional Commission because I believe that this position reflects what the United List of Social Democrats has consistently demonstrated in their ten-year efforts and endeavours to convince themselves that some positive measures must be taken to ensure equal opportunities. Let me just remind you of the names of some of the candidates for similar measures, to remind us of Lev Kreft, Mateja Kožu Novak, Cyril Ribičič and many of the attempts that some of them, but not all of them in the National Assembly, have been agreed on, and more times the United List of Social Democrats has not been heard in their efforts to establish positive measures. However, the current case is the result of a broad consensus between NGOs and political parties, and I hope they are looking forward to a better time for women to run for office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u151	Anyone else want to explain their voice? Nobody. We decide on the position of the Constitutional Commission at EPI365/3. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote, peace in the hall! 73 present, 70 for and no one against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one's against it.]] This position has been adopted. On the basis of this view, the Constitutional Commission will prepare a proposal for a constitutional law for one of the next meetings. This point is closed. We are at the end of the 6th item of the agenda - when considering the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law - EPA703 /III. It's too messy again, please! We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which proposes to the assembly to adopt the amendment as a position on the draft constitutional law. You have this position on document number six. Do I have to read it? [[Yeah.]] Okay. "The Constitutional Commission should take into account the following points when drafting a proposal for a constitutional law: 1. Position: The proposed text of the amendment to Article 130 of the Constitution should be deleted, the proposed text of Article 132, first paragraph 129 and second paragraph of Article 132 should be aligned with that amendment; 2. Position: The Constitutional Commission should take into account the principle that the number of members of the Judicial Council should not be increased in the drafting of amendment 131. In the proposed text of the second paragraph of Article 131, the word ‘six’ is replaced by ‘five’ and the word ‘seven’ is replaced by ‘four’ in the first sentence. In the last sentence of the proposed text of the second paragraph of Article 131, the word 'choice' shall be replaced by the word 'election' and the article shall be supplemented by the following sentence: 'The President of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice may not be elected President of the Judicial Council; Position: In the last sentence of Article 132, the word 'President of the Republic' shall be replaced by 'State Assembly'; 4. Position: The proposed text of the amendment to Article 134 of the Constitution should be deleted." Now we're going to decide this as one position. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will now make one decision on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. 74 present, 21 for and 47 for. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that we have not taken decisions here either, and the Constitutional Commission will have to examine how to proceed. We're in the middle of today's decisions. At point 4, we are considering a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law (EPA 700/III). We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the views of the Constitutional Commission, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 7.4.2004. Do you, please, have before you an overview of the amendments tabled to the position of the Constitutional Commission? It's on one side, it's a referendum. Let me tell you what we're gonna do. We will first vote on the first amendment of the SLS Group to the first position. We will then vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to the 1st position. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SLS Group, which is next, becomes irrelevant. If this amendment is rejected, we will vote on the SLS amendment to the first position and for the fourth time we will vote on the amendment of the LDS MP and the ZLSD and DeSUS MPs to the first position, then we will take a decision on the positions, the first, the second and thus end the agenda. We'll vote on the amendments first. I'll go slowly. Please have a checkup in front of you. We are voting on the first amendment of the SLS Group to the first position. Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Indeed, as the text in the first paragraph follows, the cumulative guidance of the initiators for the invitation to referendum follows. Indeed, as it is written, the text follows that at least 40,000 voters and the Council of State can give an initiative to call for a subsequent legislative referendum. It is probably a editorial error, as has been found since then in the procedure following the decision of the National Assembly to initiate the procedure. We therefore propose that the word "in" be replaced by the word "or". This would, of course, remove any confusion in the interpretation of this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u153	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Do I have to read the text? No, no, no. We will then vote on the first amendment of the SLS Group to the first position. We're voting! Peace in the hall! 75 in attendance, 74 in, no in. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. If the amendment is adopted, the next amendment of the SLS Group will become irrelevant. Is there any objection to that? No, no, no. Voice explanation, colleague Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u154	Thank you. This is a famous paragraph which foretells an inadvertent expansion of those content that will never again be the subject of a referendum decision. This is said to open the door to even greater rigors than we have seen in recent referendums, where, under only one provision, the anti-constitutional nature of the ban has been so widespread in some way or there has somehow been a tendency to put a stop to the referendum initiative. We believe that this does not at all fall within the Constitution, such a strong restriction or opening up the possibility of such restriction, especially because we do not yet have such a political culture in our country that we can regulate it with respect for article 3 of the Constitution, which says that we have the authority of the people. And if we are already limiting the referendum content, we need to work very respectfully and very resiliently towards this provision and, of course, respectful to the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u155	Anybody else want to explain their voice? A fellow Rockhead. My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. But this amendment is actually identical to the amendment of the SLS Group, but it actually defines even the first position. In particular, it is a matter of whether, in the second paragraph of this first position, the text should be adopted in order to provide for provisions on the referendum issue, on which laws and under what conditions a subsequent legislative referendum cannot be declared. Indeed, the existing regulation clearly provides that a constitutional court is to decide on the possible non-constitutionality of the referendum issue. Thus, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that there are no questions about including this provision in the position of article 90 of the Constitution. In addition, there is something else that needs to be highlighted. Most of the referendums so far, subsequent or previous, have been linked to financial implications. And it would be irresponsible for the National Assembly to restrict the decision-making of the electorate and the electorate on the law already adopted by this National Assembly, of course, to the financial consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u157	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The Law on the Referendum and the People's and Initiative had a provision in the original text that a referendum could not be declared when it came to the question of the exercise of human rights, the ratification of inter-State treaties and when it came to tax legislation. He never stipulated that no material obligation could be the content of referendums, which was complete inflatable and inaccurate. All European regimes that know the binding referendum have the option of restricting them to laws that are not covered by the referendum. The law will be adopted by a two-thirds majority. With the interest of all Members and Members, and 90% of the participation, this means the same majority as we will decide on it by amending the Constitution. The adoption of the current proposal in the views of the Constitutional Commission means only the possibility that, if possible, when we are complementary to the law, we may, exceptionally, exclude any case from the possibility of deciding on the referendum. I think that this is an opportunity to open up and therefore I will not support the amendment, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, nor by the Slovenian People's Party, because it is the same content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u159	Although, I think, colleague Rokavec, colleague of Cukjat, colleague of Potč mentioned that this is about the same text, we will decide separately. There'll be no misunderstandings. We will first decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. 74 in attendance, 23 in, 46 in. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] He wasn't accepted. We can now decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to the first position. Similar text, but not exactly the same. Anybody else want to explain their voice? We can decide. Please. We are voting on the second amendment of the SLS Group to the first position. 73 present, 26 to 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] Not accepted. And now for the last amendment. Amendment of the LDS MPs, the ZLSD and DeSUS MPs to the first position. Anybody want to explain their voice? My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Of course, by rejecting our previous amendment, we will not support the changes to these constitutional changes. However, it is also very interesting that this amendment, which is listed here, will require a certain participation in the referendum if we want the referendum to be in force at all. To what extent such a policy, such an approach, of course, can also be found, for example, in Montenegro and Serbia, has been spent for quite some time because they have become entangled in a blind street because they have never reached a certain quota of voters. There is a growing decline in voter participation, including across Europe, which is what Europe is aware of, and therefore such quotas are not set for either a referendum or an election. Even where they have them, they think about getting rid of them. In the second round of elections for the mayor of Ljubljana, Vika Potočnik was elected with about 9% voter participation, and no one rejected the legitimacy of such election. I believe that this is an inestimable case and an inestimable attempt to make the referendum more difficult, impossible and rejected as much as possible. I understand that some referendums, of course, are thorns in the heel, and I would like to see them cut to a minimum if they don't get out of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u161	Who's next to explain the voice? Nobody. We are voting on the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD and DeSUS MPs to the first position. We're making a decision. We're in the middle of a vote. 71 present, 48 for, 22 versus. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 22.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide where we stand. We vote on the first position. Anybody want to explain their voice? This is the position of the Constitutional Commission. Nobody wants to explain their voice. We are moving on to a decision on the first position of the Constitutional Commission. We're voting. 74 present, 50 for, 23 versus. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that the first position has been adopted. We vote on the 2nd position of the Constitutional Commission. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the second position of the Constitutional Commission. 73 in attendance, 47 in, 22 in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it that the 2nd position has been adopted. On the basis of the views adopted, the Constitutional Commission will draw up a proposal for a constitutional law for one of the next assembly meetings. The point is closed. This is the last decision today, broken down by item 2 of the agenda - to consider the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law (EPA 390/III). We have the position of the Constitutional Commission. Anybody want to explain their voice? Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u162	Thank you very much. However, as I said on the Constitutional Commission, I would like to point out the following. Article 14 of the Constitution now in force operates neutrally and has, as such, its power, which we will be able to change such neutral content of principles. I just hope that, after this example, the constitutional changes will not continue, because we will finally come to the conclusion that they were also creators - those legal experts who wrote this constitution - as capable and responsible experts; not only those who are now writing support for the changes of this constitution. Of course, then I will also support the constitutional law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-04-07-SDZ3-Izredna-42.ana.u163	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the position of the Constitutional Commission on the draft constitutional law [[EPA 390 / III]] . This is the last vote today. We're voting. 70 in attendance, 67 in, no in. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] On the basis of the position adopted, the Constitutional Commission will draw up a proposal for a constitutional law for one of the next assembly meetings. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting, which will continue tomorrow. Please, however, politely ask if you take all things that are more important than other materials into your offices; whatever remains on the table will be put away by tomorrow and put back on the bench. Please, if you can take all the relevant materials. Thank you!
