ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members! Honourable Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers, Honourable President of the Council of State, Honourable Former President of the Republic! Honourable high representatives of political and social life, respected diplomatic assembly and other high-ranking guests! Today we are moving into the framework of the 34th regular session on the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty -19. It's a day's work. This is the last final act of the activities of the National Assembly at the entry of Slovenia into the North Atlantic Alliance. Allow me to apologise for the absence of the President of the Republic, who is on an official visit to Finland today, and the President of the Constitutional Court, who is chairing the Constitutional Court right now. As I am aware, the Minister of Defence will join the National Assembly later. To all those who have attended this item on the agenda, I once again have a good day and I wish everyone a successful and pleasant feeling. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. And please, Prime Minister Mag. Anton Ropa, if he wishes to give an additional explanation of the proposal. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished High Council, ladies and gentlemen! A month ago, the National Assembly ratified the accession treaty between Slovenia and the European Union. Today we have yet another important event, the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. The integration of our country into the European Union and then among the fundamental foreign policy objectives has been everything since independence. In order to ensure a better, safer and better quality life for Slovenian citizens and citizens in order to accelerate economic growth and to strengthen the international role, we have made every effort to cooperate actively and equally in international organisations and institutions. The aim was also to provide more security for our country, our nation, our citizens and our citizens. This has also given rise to the knowledge that we must contribute to greater security in Europe and the world as well. The decision to join NATO has thus become an essential component of all state and government programmes in the last 11 years and there has been a broad political consensus on it all this time. It was not only a government project, but it was agreed on by the broader relevant political factors. It was confirmed by the National Assembly, and we confirmed it at the referendum last March. A very broad public debate on NATO membership, which has very well highlighted the various benefits of Slovenia's integration into the alliance, and the majority of Slovenian voters' decisions at the referendum have confirmed the correctness of the political decisions to strengthen Slovenia's security by joining the collective defence organisation. The membership of NATO and the European Union, which alone does not have comparable defence-military capabilities, will end the path of Slovenian integration into the two most important organisations and we will be able to open a new chapter in our history. Today, we can say that the realization of fundamental foreign policy objectives, such as membership in the European Union and NATO, is a commitment to our country's ever more active involvement in the wider international space, and thus to a more effective achievement of greater prosperity and security for our citizens. Indeed, ensuring security is at the heart of the successful economic, social and political development of all countries and societies. This will be the best way to achieve our referendum password last year: Home in Europe, safe in NATO. As early as December 1993, in the resolution on the basis of the design of national security, we have clearly stated that our goal is full membership in the NATO Union. The position adopted by the National Assembly in April 1996 states that the Republic of Slovenia wishes to ensure its fundamental security interest in the collective defence provided by its membership in the NATO Alliance. A year later, a joint statement of parliamentary parties was signed in support of Slovenian integration into NATO. The statement was signed by representatives of both the ruling coalition and the opposition, which proves that the NATO integration project is our joint national project. Critical opinions and objections were also welcome, as they helped to clear up and address a number of dilemmas in our integration into the alliance. The Prague Summit in 2002 was a historic event for both NATO and Slovenia. For us as a turning point in our integration into the alliance, and for the Union, then a more decisive step on the way to the new NATO after the end of the cold war. In this largest and most important cycle of enlargement in the history of the Allies, seven countries, including ours, have been invited to join the accession negotiations and have taken a series of measures to improve military capabilities and to strengthen innovations with partners. The invitation of the Alliance to the accession negotiations on 21 November 2002 at the Prague Summit was undoubtedly a recognition and confirmation of our long-standing commitment and determination to achieve the stated strategic goal of membership in the Alliance. The invitation means recognition to our country of progress made in the decade of our statehood and recognition that through the successful implementation of the action plan for membership and participation in NATO's operations Slovenia has been transformed from a security receiver to a security co-creator. With this, Slovenia has started to become part of a large Euro-Atlantic community of countries that share common democratic values and provide their fundamental security interest within the framework of the collective defence system. That is why we also understand NATO membership as a framework and a means that can effectively help us to establish a modern and well-trained Slovenian army through the process of broad and thorough defence-military reforms, as a basis for the security of our country and for contributing to the collective defence of the allies. The professionalization of the army was good news in Slovenia. The possibility and opportunity for military activities to be dealt with by those who want and can do so, while ensuring that top professionals take care of security and defence. I would say that this is one of the key links of our entry into both Euro-Atlantic integration. Just as we did not harmonise ourselves with the European Union because of it, but because of our own development, we are also professionalising the armies not only for compatibility with NATO standards, but for our greater security. The Slovenian professional army will be in the service of the security of all citizens and citizens and will be in the service of the country. The ten-year period of relations between Slovenia and the NATO Union was very dynamic. But it has already begun with our cooperation in the Partnership for Peace. The entry process itself has been carried out in very changed international circumstances, marked by the transformation of global and regional power centres, the processes of globalisation, new forms of security threats, the dynamics of transatlantic relations, the processes of stabilisation in the Balkans. Both Slovenia and the Union were then and are still in the process of reform. During this period, Slovenia has developed and built its armed forces since the creation of a independent and sovereign state with the aim of building a professional Slovenian army, adapting to the standards of alliance and operating under collective defence conditions. Although reforms in the Slovenian Army are primarily in our own interest, this was also a reciprocal and two-way process based on the exchange of knowledge and experience when we joined NATO. The process incorporated into NATO has undoubtedly contributed to the acceleration of our defence-military reforms. This process has been particularly useful in accelerating the formation of a transparent structure of armed forces under democratic and civil control. Even after the fall of the Berlin Wall or the end of the Cold War, after the collapse of the Warsaw Pact and even more after 11 September 2001, NATO found itself in a deep and dynamic process of transforming, changing and responding to the new threats and security challenges posed by the 21st century. During this period, NATO, if I list only some milestones, has strengthened cooperation with non-member countries through the Partnership for Peace programme, in which we have also successfully participated. It responded to human rights violations in south-eastern Europe and intervened in order to establish them. It established a strong partnership with the Russian Federation and Ukraine, expanded with three new members, and for the first time since 11 September 2001 it has activated Article 5 of the Washington Treaty, not least taking over the leadership of international forces to stabilise the situation in Afghanistan. The transformation of the relationship is not yet complete, but the fundamental principles remain unchanged. Today we are entering an association of democratic and developed countries, which in five and a half decades have established the most effective political defence alliance in the world, acting on the basis of the UN Charter. During the decades of the Cold War, he provided conditions for the smooth development of democracy in Europe and consequently established such a level of security that allowed for the deepening and expansion of European integration processes. It is then an alliance of democratic countries that make decisions unanimously. Through the Washington Treaty, it guarantees its members the collective defence, the synergy of security defence efforts and the possibility of optimal exploitation of available resources. It is also the only organisation that provides transatlantic security and defence connectivity and effective dialogue on both sides of the Atlantic, which is necessary to successfully address global problems. The NATO Member States are aware that the security challenges are too complex for them to be part of one more capable organisation. It therefore cooperates with various institutions, organisations and countries in establishing a broad security network. The Alliance strengthens institutional relations with organisations such as the UN, OSCE and the EU and deepens existing relations with partner countries in the Euro-Atlantic area, in the wider Mediterranean and in particular with the Russian Federation. Slovenia is already part of this distributed security network. As a member of the Union, then we will have the opportunity to play an even more active role. A secure and stable environment is a fundamental condition for the smooth economic, social and cultural development of each country, nation and individual. Membership in NATO allows us, together with other members, to decide on security and political issues and to participate actively in calming down crisis hotspots while at the same time sharing the burden in the alliance provides the necessary military and defence security in our country. As an equal part of the international community, we also accept our share of the obligation to ensure international peace, stability and security. Slovenian soldiers in peace support operations carry out all the more demanding tasks. Because of the growing interrelationship and interdependence of the modern world, as well as the indivisibility of world peace and security, action is essential today. Each country must bear its share of the responsibility to maintain world peace and security and cannot be just a consumer of security. Slovenia is ready to take on an active role. We are also prepared to actively cooperate and co-decision in the creation of a new NATO so that together we can respond to the difficult and not always predictable security challenges of the 21st century. We will be fully co-decisiond on this at the upcoming Istanbul summit of NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the proposal to ratify the North Atlantic Treaty. The year 2004 is unique and historic for Slovenia. It represents the summit of our multi-annual efforts and efforts and at the same time marks the beginning of our new role in the international community. It is therefore right to reiterate that a secure and stable environment is a prerequisite for smooth economic, social, cultural, scientific, technological and social development. With our NATO membership, we want to ensure a secure environment, an environment that will contribute to the smooth development of our country and its people. The integration into the collective defence system will also make it easier for Slovenia to face contemporary threats to security and stability. Of course, we also want to contribute to the security of all the allies in the organization, just as the allies would contribute to our security. As a full member, both NATO and the European Union, we want to contribute to the expansion of cooperation and partnership between the two organisations and the achievement of common strategic interests, particularly in the Balkans. I believe that we will also succeed because we are fully aware of the key importance of the principle of solidarity in alliance. These experiences will be passed on to all those who are needed and who want to continue our journey, especially to our neighbours in South-Eastern Europe. We want to contribute to enhancing the security of everyone in the Euro-Atlantic area and to achieving the common objective of a comprehensive and free Europe, an association in peace and with common values for the democracy of the market economy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. On this occasion, I would like to thank all of you who have participated in the implementation of this national project. I would also like to thank the Member States of the Alliance and NATO for all the support, encouragement and assistance we have received on this difficult path. As a partner and candidate for membership in these years of intensive cooperation, we have shown that we are worthy of trust and are able to contribute as best we can to strengthening the alliance and peace, security and stability in Europe and in the world. On April 4th this year, NATO will celebrate its 55th anniversary. And then, as a full member, Slovenia will celebrate. This will be the first great victory of the new member and we will do everything we can to make all the future Slovenian victories, the triumphs of just peace, solidarity and peace, this is our commitment to citizens and citizens, this is Slovenia's commitment to the modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. He will further explain the draft law, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u4	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, colleagues! Dear Members, honourable Members, the High Council! Today we are achieving a goal that we have set ourselves decades ago, namely the inclusion of Slovenia in the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty or the approval of this Treaty. This brings Slovenia into the area and becomes the centre, the source of security and peace in Europe. This will meet our country's strategic foreign policy ambition. On behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, first of all, I thank you for your support so far on the road to this goal. Slovenia has been honoured by the constant, unequivocal and active support of the National Assembly, the clear positions of the Assembly and the intensive engagement of the IZZ, the Government, the President of the Republic and some civil society organisations, such as the NATO Committee and the Atlantic Council. Prior to last year's referendum, they created conditions for convincing confirmation of Slovenian national efforts. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On 5 February 2004, this said a few days ago, the last member of the North Atlantic Alliance ratified the accession protocols of the seven invited countries. The Washington Treaty is thus open to accession and it is anticipated that on 2 April, invited countries will deposit instruments on the ratification of the Treaty to the depositary, the United States of America, and become members of the North Atlantic Alliance. I suggest you confirm the North Atlantic Treaty. Today, we can be satisfied; remember how much we wanted to enter NATO in 1997 and how disappointed we were when we failed at that time. Let us consider how pleased they are in the other six countries, which, at the same time as we do, at the same time confirm the Washington Treaty. Let us also remember how hot they want to enter NATO some other countries that have not been heard so far. Today's event is a great achievement of Slovenian national competitiveness, but of course we also have a great responsibility. Slovenia has clearly supported NATO’s policy objectives by actively engaging in NATO operations and, last but not least, by fulfilling the tasks set out in the Membership Action Plan, has demonstrated that it is a reliable and credible partner who meets the required membership criteria and is entitled to membership in the most effective political defence relationship in the world. According to the results of the referendum, NATO was relatively few real opponents in Slovenia, but they were influential and visible. The moment of the referendum coincided with the outbreak of the Iraq war, which some unjustifiably linked to NATO. But these dilemmas and conflicts are now behind us. Slovenian voters strongly supported Slovenia's membership in NATO. I believe that, thanks to the referendum and the activities associated with it, they are well aware of the importance of this membership. When it comes to crucial historical issues, Slovenians are decided on a prudent and state-of-the-art basis. In Slovenia we have experienced the same hardships and internal struggles we have experienced in other European countries. After one year, we find that these fights are more or less over. The style and solidarity return to the Euro-Atlantic community. In the National Assembly and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we believed that it could not be otherwise. By entering NATO, we manifest the belongings of the communities of countries whose development is based on democracy, personal freedom and the rule of law, peace and trust in the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. Slovenia joins the family of countries that have decided to combine their security efforts due to synergies. Membership in NATO strengthens the weight of Slovenia in the international environment and enables us to co-decision in the design of the security policy of the Euro-Atlantic area. Involved in the process of taking security decisions, Slovenia has been given the opportunity to provide quality and timely knowledge of the information and trends relevant to its safety. Of course, it is a two-way process, as the allies expect Slovenia to recognize, in accordance with its capabilities, its proportionate part of the responsibility for the effective and effective functioning of the Atlantic Alliance. Slovenia will strengthen its credibility with a responsible attitude towards NATO membership in a broader international context. Most NATO members are also members of the European Union. This is about the countries with which Slovenia realizes the most of its political, economic and cultural interests. Slovenia is one of the most successful and most respected countries with NATO membership. Then, as we know, he was created in a different situation than today. However, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, he began to adapt successfully to the new security challenges. This is a continuous process, the fundamental objective of which is to ensure an optimum level of security for the members. Globalisation goes beyond national borders, which is particularly true for different forms of security threats. It is therefore understandable that countries do not guarantee their security only at their borders. Responsibility and solidarity also mean concern for stability in neighbouring regions. Their imbalances could have negative consequences for the security situation in the Member States in NATO. Illegal migration, all kinds of illegal trafficking, drugs, people, weapons and so on, organised crime and terrorism are only an external expression of the security situation in regions or countries whose internal instability is spreading across their borders. New Nata, allow me to say a few words about him, is increasingly dealing with new threats and threats, including terrorism. Terrorism occurs with different names, sometimes even those that are at first acceptable, justified or even acceptable. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Terrorism emerges with excuses of extreme force, of hopeless majority and minority, of fateful power and powerlessness, often fueling feelings and compassion, and always fueling new disputes. [[...]] As it is not possible to accept an interpretation of democracy that would allow permanent majority and permanent minorities, of course, neither can any violent challenge by any majority and no minority. The only way to solve these problems is by taking into account the laws and international law. There is no excuse in the community, including Slovenia, for terrorism. It then increasingly provides a framework for non-military activities carried out by various international, governmental and non-governmental organisations seeking to regulate the situation in crisis areas. So far, NATO's engagement in South-East Europe and Afghanistan, where NATO is carrying out a UN-authorised peace operation, can serve as a good example. The efforts of the international community in Afghanistan, the key part of which is also the presence of NATO, have allowed the return of more than one and a half million refugees who have been living in refugee camps outside their homeland since the Soviet invasion of 1979. The dynamics of modern security requires that NATO pursue a proactive policy that does not only respond to situations where they develop into difficult regional and international crises. This was also recognized by members of NATO, who took a decision at the Prague Summit on the establishment of NATO forces for rapid intervention, the so-called "Nato response forces". Their very existence will be a dissuasive factor for countries and groups that may create imbalances in their region. However, for the effective and timely functioning of the Alliance, it is not only a military structure that can respond quickly to crisis situations but also an appropriate adjustment to the speed of political decision-making, which, given the fact that it is a democratic state, is certainly a difficult task. Military engagement is only one of the dimensions of NATO's pro-active policy, while others form different forms of partnership that enables non-members of NATO to help reform their defence systems while training them to engage in quality international operations of the North Atlantic Alliance. This alliance also encourages regional cooperation of partner countries through the Partnership for Peace, as it primarily contributes to reducing tensions and reducing latent conflict situations in the security regions. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Slovenia is involved in a long-term security regime in its south-eastern neighbourhood and encourages various forms of cooperation with NATO in this area. Our membership in the Alliance and cooperation with its members will significantly strengthen the possibilities of Slovenian security engagement in the Western Balkans, whose permanent stabilisation is in the vital interest of Slovenia. As is known and understood, this stabilisation also has economic dimensions for us. Slovenia supports the enlargement of NATO with all those countries that want to do so and meet the conditions for membership. The enlargement so far has significantly broadened the area of institutional stability in Europe and thus significantly deplores the security burden of the countries that have recently emerged from the pinnacle of authoritarian systems. Already the NATO enlargement forecast and intensive partnership have successfully included modern European thinking and efforts for closer integration in this part of Europe. The formal entry of Central European countries into NATO means irreversible positive security processes in this part of Europe. One of the key elements of European security and stability is transatlantic security cooperation, which has reached the highest degree of institutionalisation right beyond the existence of NATO. The most effective and, by all means, the only way to deal with the security threats of the present time is to face them together. Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, at the NATO Summit in Istanbul on 28 and 29 June this year, we will be actively involved as a member in the debate on the future role and importance of the Atlantic Alliance. This will be an opportunity to consider and contribute, together with those who have been more skeptical about membership, to the formation of such a NATO as is in accordance with Slovenian interests and views. NATO's security policy and engagement after the end of the Cold War showed that then, in changed circumstances, it retains its security relevance as part of broader efforts in the international community to establish peace, security, security and balance in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Foreign Minister. The proposal for a law on ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a competent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Comrade Jelko Kacin, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u6	Dear colleagues, presidents, members of the government, diplomatic assembly, distinguished guests and guests, citizens and citizens! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a law on ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty as the parent working body at its 78th regular meeting, held on 17 February 2004. In its opening remarks, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Samuel Žbogar, explained that, in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter and the United Nations, on 4 April 1949, in Washington, 12 States Parties had established the North Atlantic Treaty. I will not repeat the Government's argument because this has been discussed by government representatives. I have presented the content of the work of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly, political parties and other branches of government, civil society and, last but not least, citizens and citizens of Slovenia in the process of self-reliance and integration into the NATO Union, which I have identified as the second most important event of this century when it comes to ratifications. I pointed out that in the fight for Slovenian independence and in the face of the consequences of military conflicts in our immediate neighbourhood, we wanted the intervention of the Atlantic Alliance, while at the same time asking ourselves the question of the essence of its existence. The answer to the question whether we are prepared to expose our soldiers, our defences and our lives for our own safety has long been avoided by the Slovenian public. Before the Member States invited us to join the NATO Union, they contributed, with their presence and victims in their midst, to regulating the situation in our immediate neighbourhood. At the meeting of the committee, we bowed silently to the soldiers of the member states of the Atlantic Alliance, who had spent the last decade of their lives trying to stabilise the situation in South-East Europe. In mentioning the important actions of the National Assembly in joining the Union, I stressed in particular the importance of the joint statement of parliamentary parties in support of Slovenia's integration into the NATO Union, signed on 17 April 1997 by all the Presidents of the then parliamentary parties and both Members of the Nationality. The first document, which provided the basis for Slovenia's involvement in the Atlantic Alliance, was a motion for a resolution on the origins of the national security design, which was considered by the International Relations Committee in 1993. In 1994, the Committee discussed the Partnership for Peace initiative. At the same time, the Committee invited the Government to strengthen the representation of the Republic of Slovenia at NATO headquarters in Brussels. The year 1996 was a turning point in many areas. As a first step towards professionalization of the Slovenian Armed Forces, he was aware that with military bonds on the service of military service it was not possible to go on any operations abroad and that we need a professional army set up by the 1st Battalion for international cooperation. It was cooperation with the NATO Alliance in the Partnership for Peace that forced us to embark on the path of professionalization of the Slovenian Army, which has now led to the possibility that we could put an end to the service of the military and come to a fully professional army. In 1996, the first joint Slovenian-Italian military exercise was important in Cyprus or the Gulf of Tržaška, and the first exercise of the Slovenian Armed Forces took place in the fall of the same year, with the participation of Dutch aircraft. "Then the energy facility act" was first mentioned by Slovenia and designated it as a recipient of the US budget for preparation for membership in the NATO Union. Despite a number of events that showed that Slovenia could be invited to the Atlantic Alliance in 1997, no invitation was received. Today we can assess that there were no conditions for enlargement to Slovenia at that time. The integration of Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary into the Alliance was primarily and firstly the correction of historical injustices. I have stressed that the proposal for a law on the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty coincides with an extremely difficult and crucial event for the Slovenian Army, with the deployment of our soldiers to Afghanistan in the framework of an ISA operation. Slovenia is the only successor to the former Yugoslavia, which is militarily present in both SFOR and KFOR operations, and has also participated in Alba and Jantar Fox operations and operations in Cyprus. The pre-referendum public opinion polls showed that the proportion identified for NATO was much lower than that found in the referendum. A lot of voter support is the power to attribute a well-founded and non-aggressive pre-referendum campaign. A positive correlation has been established in the Slovenian public between NATO's intervention in the South-Eastern Europe area and the stabilisation of the situation in the area. He then intervened in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the mandate of the UN and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia without the consent of the UN because of the veto of Russia and then entered the Pristina airport alone on the day before the start of the KFOR operation. The Atlantic Alliance also worked preventively in Macedonia. As a support for the pre-referendum campaign, it is also necessary to mention the visits made by a number of foreign representatives of governments and parliaments to show and explain the benefits of their countries' membership in the NATO Union. Last but not least, the murder of Zoran Djindjic was further reminded by the Slovenian public that the Balkans are still a restless and unpredictable area. Slovenia supports the further enlargement process not only with the successors of the former Yugoslavia but also with Albania and all the countries of South-Eastern Europe. I then marked the entry into the Union as a national project in which both the opposition and all the ruling coalitions have proved themselves. Members stressed in particular the concerted performance of all political actors and in particular the role of political parties in the process of joining the Atlantic Alliance. Only Bevk recalled that the United List of Social Democrats established its position towards joining the NATO Union in 2001 in a resolution at the Koper Party Congress entitled "To accelerate Slovenia's preparations for joining Euro-Atlantic links". At the 2002 conference in Otocec, they reiterated their support for joining the Atlantic Alliance, assuming that the will of citizens and citizens at the referendum should be respected. He announced that a large majority of the members of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats would support the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. Aurelio Juri announced that he would abstain in the vote, as the results of the referendum were clear, but could not support the bill because of the incredibility of the treaty which, in its preamble and in Article 1, swears on the authority of the United Nations and on the peaceful settlement of disputes, the principles violated by members of the United States of America and the United Kingdom by an attack on Iraq without the consent of the United Nations. The President of the Defence Committee, Rudolf Petan, recalled the important milestones in Slovenia's accession to the Euro-Atlantic Alliance and stressed the maturity and mutual participation of all actors and, in particular, political parties in the NATO integration process. He noted that the drafter of the joint statement of parliamentary parties in support of Slovenia's integration into the Union was NATO Janez Janša, but that the project of approximation to the Euro-Atlantic Alliance exceeded the party framework and became a national project. During his discussion, Dorijan Marsič praised the Ministry of Defence, in particular the Slovenian Army, which carried out a number of key defence reforms in a relatively short time. The direct result of the entry into NATO is also the professionalization of the Slovenian Army. He stressed that Slovenia should support the further enlargement process in the future, and should support Croatia's membership in the NATO Alliance and its efforts in relation to the membership action plan and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro in the Partnership for Peace. He said that the Atlantic Alliance had not participated in the attack on Iraq and was not directly involved in the post-war reconstruction of Iraq. However, Jožef Jerovšek pointed out that Slovenia does not lose its sovereignty by entering the Union and that it has gained an equal position with its accession to the Alliance than has been the case with Slovenia. In the debate, MEPs Jože Ašič, Ivan Mamićter Jožef Kavticnik pointed out the importance of the NATO Alliance and the protection of human rights as one of the principles of the Atlantic Alliance. They also stressed the need to celebrate the ratification of the Treaty in the National Assembly. Ivan Bozič mentioned in his contribution the role and contribution of the former party of the Slovenian Christian Democrats in joining the Alliance. Mag. Zoran Gračner highlighted five key reasons for supporting Slovenia's integration into the NATO Union, the geostrategic position of our country, the lack of an alternative option in the case of non-involvement, membership in NATO as recognition of Slovenia's achievements after independence, commitment to the human will expressed in the referendum, and professionalization of the Slovenian Army. In addition, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Dr. Miran Jazbec, highlighted the role of the Ministry of Defence in the NATO accession project. At the end of the discussion, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Samuel Žbogar, thanked the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Defence for all support and constructive cooperation in the process of approaching the NATO Union. To the members of the Committee, I proposed an additional decision: the Committee expressed its expectation that, at the time of the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty, the large hall, the lobby of the large hall and the building of the National Assembly would be adorned by the flags of the Member States and the future Member States and the NATO Union. Aurelio Yuri objected. Members of Dorijan Maršič, Ivan Bernik, Jožef Jerovšek and Rudolf Petan, pointing out also the practice in other acceding countries, advocated the celebration of the event. In its consideration of the law on ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, had no comments. After the discussion, the Committee adopted all the articles of the bill with 14 votes in favour and no "against". As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal be dealt with in the text submitted to the National Assembly for legislative procedure and adopted. The rapporteur at the meeting of the National Assembly will be the chairman of the Committee. The Committee then, with 14 votes in favour and 1 against, and addressed to the President of the National Assembly, the following decision: "The Committee expressed its expectation that, at the time of the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty, the great hall, the courtyard of the Grand Hall and the building of the National Assembly will be adorned on occasion by the flags of the Member States and future members of the NATO Alliance." Dear colleagues and colleagues, I now suggest that, just as we did on the Foreign Policy Committee, we honour with silence the memory of all those who have put their lives into the pursuit of peace and stability in Southeast Europe. [[One minute of silence.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. I now give my word and invite you to speak for the chairman of the Defence Committee, Comrade Rudolph Petan. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u8	Mr President, high-ranking guests, colleagues and colleagues! Today's ratification process of the North Atlantic Treaty is the final act of our approach to the Alliance, which began exactly ten years ago. In January 1994, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a supplement, a new twelfth point to the resolution on the origins of the national security concept, which reads as follows: "In the process of integration into the European and other international economic and political links, the Republic of Slovenia assumes at the same time the rights and responsibilities required by these links in the defence field, except for the provision of peacekeeping forces in the area of the former Yugoslavia until the end of the crisis. This is all the more so because she is vitally interested in establishing an effective collective security system in her neighbourhood, Europe and the world. As an important goal, it places the inclusion in NATO or the Western European Union as a pillar, the European pillar of NATO. The decision on these important links in the defence field must take place on the basis of a broad professional and public exchange of views. On these issues, the National Assembly may hold a referendum." This is what was written in the resolution, which was then written down. Today we are concluding this process, and this is certainly a glorious event. This is a great success for Slovenia, a great event, especially if we are aware that 13 years ago we were part of a Balkan boiler that no such heavy lid could afford to continue. The human will and desire for democratisation were too great to allow such a situation to continue. Slovenia was then on its way. Others did, too. Slovenia, which has always been associated with Central Europe in its history, except for the last 70 years of the past century, has opted for Euro-Atlantic links, for the European Union and for NATO. Therefore, it is no wonder that Slovenia joined the Partnership for Peace in March 1994 and became an associate partner in the North Atlantic Assembly in the same year. For all these steps, including the transformation of the armed forces, the state had to prepare itself; it had to adopt a legal framework, i.e. relevant legislation. There have been problems here, we have sometimes adopted subordinate acts before, and we have made general adaptations to them. In doing so, it must be stressed that we did not build our armed forces, the Slovenian Armed Forces for the sake of others, we did not build them because of our integration into NATO, but mainly because of ourselves. Then it was only a catalyst that we had done certain tasks before, which was of paramount importance for a country in transition. We have further outlined the material bases in the law of providing funds for the implementation of the fundamental development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia. We did this for the first time in 1994 until 2007 and later upgraded until 2010. This project was also accompanied by problems at the beginning of the non-quality supply and the share of gross domestic product fell to 1.22% in 2000. Although we promised differently, it has been difficult for us to prove our credibility in many ways abroad. However, this has changed since 2000. One of the most important steps in our rapprochement to NATO, which at that time was no longer just a defence liaison, is to sign a joint statement on NATO integration. This was done on 17 April 1997, and this project was prepared by Janez Janša. By signing all parliamentary parties, this project was no longer a single option project, nor was it a political party, nor was it a government or opposition project, but it became a national project. This has proved that we can go beyond the party framework and prove our maturity when it comes to important decisions of the Slovenian people. The fact that this is a joint project is also one of the reasons for a favourable result at the March 2003 referendum. And why is NATO so important to us? Because of the values on which the Alliance is based and for which we have taken over since 1990, these are: stable democratic, social and political systems, a functioning market economy, respect for human rights, democratic control of armed forces and regulated relations with neighbours. However, Member States are expected to express their determination and the ability together to defend the freedom, heritage and values of nations and countries that are based on these principles. In the National Assembly, we have adopted several documents for the transformation of the armed forces and for our placement in a wider space. I would mention only some: a long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2010, a resolution on the national security strategy, a law on the completion of the Slovenian Armed Forces and a law on military duty. This is certainly one of the most important laws, since it means the abolition of the recruitment system, which was then so much before the collapse, and the introduction of a professional army, which means a quality leap and allows us to engage in international peace operations in the long term. Slovenia has always been aware of its responsibility to contribute to peace, particularly in its neighbourhood. Our units have been in Albania, Cyprus, and are still within the framework of SFOR in Bosnia, KFOR in Macedonia and Kosovo, and I am certainly part of our decision to deploy our troops to Afghanistan. If anyone, then Slovenia is the one who can appreciate peace. Slovenia is in the immediate neighbourhood of the Balkans, where wars were a common way to resolve conflicts with armed conflicts. Foreign verification was also very important for the construction of our armed forces and the integration into NATO. In doing so, I would particularly like to mention the work of the Garrett Commission, which has identified the situation with us and made recommendations. I emphasize, recommendations, not demands. A lot of sobriety has made our drawbacks in Nato in 1997 in Sintra and then confirmation at the Madrid Summit. Only Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary were invited at that time, without Slovenia. For the second round of enlargement, Slovenia, as well as other candidates, had to prepare action plans for inclusion in the membership in which the intentions were defined and how we will specify these, as well as the material conditions. In 2002, the government also identified a projection of defence expenditure by 2010 and, of course, it was also discussed by the Defence Committee. In the same year, the amended Defence Act addressed the issue of State participation in the collective defence system. A new structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces has also been established, information and security activities have been organised for defence purposes, a system of career paths and so on. However, there is still no structural staff mismatch. The most important milestone in our integration, while approaching NATO means a powder summit where we have received such a long-awaited and desirable invitation to join the Alliance. In doing so, we should not forget what has allowed us to be in the process of ratifying the North Atlantic Treaty today. This is our decision on a separate path that was realized in June 1991. As soon as the day after the declaration of independence and independence, we had to confirm it in the war and defend our young, barely formed country. However, this war was short and successful, thanks to the then government, which successfully led the preparations and also carried out the self-reliance project. As you know, Mr Loize Peterle was at the head of this government, Minister Janez Janša and Igor Bavčar were very exposed, and probably information in that government was done. Here we need to mention tens of thousands of those who defended Slovenia without hesitation. All of you today would have earned more than 3.9% of your pension cut. The Committee of the National Defence Council has also done a great deal of work during this time. In doing so, I would like to thank my colleagues: Mag. Peter Bakšič, Mrs. Sasha Virant and Majdi Grizold. Of course, thanks are due to all those who have come to the referendum and voted for the safer future of Slovenia and supported our integration into NATO, and of course all those who have made it possible today before the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. If ever, then today is an opportunity to find out that we still have many tasks in Slovenia that we need to do. The first and certainly most important is today's ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty, and we hope that this will also be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. We will now listen to the views of the groups of Members. The first position, the position of the New Slovenia Group, will be presented by a colleague Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Please, Dr. Bayuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are witnessing the moment when we will finally confirm our intentions to join the NATO Alliance. An organisation that has a fundamental charter to serve to protect the freedom of countries, their peoples and individuals, human rights, parliamentary democracy as a model of governance, based on the rule of law and the market economy. The New Slovenia Group will strongly support this law with pride and joy. What seemed impossible to the vast majority of Slovenians 15 years ago, many of us having only a dream and a vision of a distant future and then a nightmare, is being realized today. The Republic of Slovenia will become a full member of the world's most successful defence union, which has helped end the Cold War without a nuclear disaster, that the free world has not become the prey of totalitarianism, and that the fall of the Berlin Wall has also led to the fall of the Iron Curtain. The ice of the Cold War is almost melted and will soon disappear, and today we are witnessing the expansion of the values of Western democracy in the countries of the former Warsaw Union, strengthening the participation of the NATO countries and the European Union with Russia, Ukraine, the Central Asian countries, South-Eastern Europe, and strengthening dialogue with the Muslim Council of the Mediterranean in the Mediterranean dialogue. Tomorrow we will be members of the NATO Federation, which is significantly different from that of 15 years ago. Just as we started our transition path, NATO's relationship also experienced a transformation that was driven by new security challenges, changes in the geopolitical configuration of the world, in the economic and social sphere, the need to understand the difference, after a dialogue that overcomes cultural and civilisational differences. New NATO is not a cold war that only deters forces, exclusively military threats, but also means combating the risk of all kinds of threats to international security in a broader sense, including non-military sources such as natural or man-made disasters, destroyed or impoverished environments, international crime, illegal migration, arms trafficking, dangerous substances or even weapons of mass destruction. Current opponents of NATO, who are thought to be from the cold war stereotype, will soon realize that NATO is still relevant for the safety of today and tomorrow. If NATO had cold wars as a priority to deter a frontal conflict with the Warsaw Pact, the new NATO has a completely different security priorities. Today, NATO's priorities are to defend against international terrorism, which despises the lives of innocent and entire lives of its own protagonists, and to defend against weapons of mass destruction. This defense is very difficult. It requires coordinated action by the international community, new restructuring of the armed forces, civil protection, coordination of intelligence services and substantially other approaches to solving international crises, requires resolution of the crises in the core itself and at the very beginning. Addressing the causes of crises is better than remedying the consequences. If anything, it's a science of modern history. With this, he becomes the creator of global security and Slovenia as a member of the global team. All of this, however, requires a much smaller military force and the improvement of the civil protection service of rescue and sanitation. It requires highly trained and trained personnel. Although Slovenia has taken good initial steps by introducing a professional army and equipping the Slovenian Army. However, we have done little in the field of education of all kinds of personnel. The Slovenian army does not only need theoretical strategic-military skills, it also needs basic purely military knowledge, in conjunction with technical knowledge. If we do not see the link between the Slovenian army and domestic science and the development of domestic war techniques, even though great opportunities and opportunities are opening up to us as members of NATO. More resources will have to be invested in the knowledge of the professional Slovenian Armed Forces and the reserve. Nato's connection could have bridged. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Differences and connect Europe from the Atlantic almost to Ural and to the coasts of the Black Sea. [[...]] What about us? While we have all the formal acquisitions of a democratic society, the remains of thought and the sharing of the cold war are still visible. The old deep differences of 60 years ago are being nurtured, not only to clarify themselves in order to fully correct injustices and to shake hands and jointly address the challenges of the 21st century for Slovenia, such as transparency in the field of public action and the economy, the effective functioning of the judiciary and the tax system, the elimination of latent segregation of other thinkers. These are the basic tasks that we will have to perform if we are to live in line with the values and objectives of the new NATO Alliance. Although we have passed the acceptance exam, we have many homework and specific tasks ahead of us in the face of current and future crises in Europe. Work begins, bravely forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. The following position will be presented by colleague Miran Potrč, the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Presidents, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The United List of Social Democrats is for the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the North Atlantic Alliance. It contributed to the success of the referendum in March last year, where more than 66% of participants were identified for Slovenia's entry into NATO. That is why a large majority of Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will also vote in favour of the bill. Peace and security are increasingly indivisible in the world, despite the fact that Europe and the world have never been at peace for so long. During all this time, there was no moment when there were no individual more or less cruel and extensive conflicts. We also felt this at the time of our independence and, unfortunately, some other nations of the former common country and their tragedies and victims would be even greater if there were no international defence and security organizations that would be there and are willing to help us today to establish and maintain a fragile peace. The pursuit of peace, peaceful settlement of disputes and cooperation between nations and countries is, unfortunately, not yet possible without responsibility for their own and collective defence and security. It is not possible to count on others to provide it in case of need. You cannot be expected to be an equal factor in the international community unless you are a member of organisations that ensure international order and peace. Unfortunately, these roles cannot yet be provided only by the United Nations. The reality of the world situation also requires other organisations. In particular, in Europe, such an organisation is also a North Atlantic alliance, not in its original role, when, during the Cold War and the confrontation policy, it prevented the war threat between the blocs, but mainly as a military-political organisation that can contribute to peace and cooperation across the borders of its members. And to be a member of an organisation that has decided to protect freedom, democracy and the rule of law, whose decisions are taken by the participation and consent of all members, irrespective of the questions and discontents that rightly give rise to individual actions, acquisitions and conditions for equal participation in decisions affecting the maintenance of world peace and the establishment of a global political order and relations. If you're not there, you don't have any information, not just to be able to decide, but the consequences of other people's decisions, good and bad, you carry in the world anyway. That is why it is a decision to join the North Atlantic Alliance of Law, which is why it has been supported by the electorate and the electorate with such a large majority. That was a question that came before the referendum. This referendum was also requested by us, among the first. There were concerns in Slovenian politics about whether it is reasonable, and there were also objections to demanding it because we do not want Slovenia to enter NATO. Today we all know it wasn't like that. We are all proud that in this historic and long-term decision, we have also ensured the participation and full support of citizens and citizens in the plebiscite of Slovenia's independence and independence and accession to the European Union. By entering the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia concludes its strategic objectives adopted at the time of independence. But we have a hard day-to-day job to use the conditions that we have created to benefit our citizens and citizens and all those who live in Slovenia. Such objectives would also require more cooperation, more partnership and trust, more honesty and honesty. How nice it will be when we transfer the methods of action of the European Union and NATO into our political and interdisciplinary lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Comrade Pohorec. Please, Comrade Pohorec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u14	Honourable Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers, High Guests, Diplomatic Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! On 4 April this year, exactly 55 years will pass since the signing of the Washington Treaty, which was formed as a collective defence organisation with the aim of defending against the attack by the forces of the then Soviet Union. Two days before 2 April this year, we will be admitted to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, the period of our active membership in NATO will begin and a month later in the European Union Our active membership in NATO will change our geopolitical position and perception of Slovenia as a country. For the first time in history, as a full-fledged member, we will be present when making decisions with the consequences for the whole world. So far, we have dealt mainly with problems from our immediate neighborhood. Now, 13 years after the establishment of the country, we will take responsibility for decisions that are significantly above our current political weight. It is important to point out that today's NATO is not the NATO that was founded in 1949. Ideological and interlocking divisions have now been exceeded and the organisation is looking for its resonance in an effort for global security and political stability. Regardless of the concerns of some that we will have a negligible influence within the alliance, it is important to stress that the main objective of our membership is to ensure security for ourselves and at the same time to expand the area of stability and prosperity. But as for our strength, influence and reverberation, there is a saying that says: Everyone has as much power as he, of course, is in accordance with the existing rules of the game, he also takes. A fine example of such a process we had the opportunity to see last year in the outbreak of the Iraqi crisis, when some small countries within the alliance were exercising their view of the midst of this crisis, resulting in military intervention in which NATO, as an organisation, was not involved. In this context, we understand then as the possibility of implementing all of us, including our views on the creation of world security, of course, with strict respect for the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and the decisions of the United Nations Security Council and the consensus within the organization itself. As a future member, we must also be aware of the quality of our membership. It is also important to know the areas, languages, mentalities of South-Eastern Europe, which has been the focus of the decade on global attention due to military and political conflicts. It is in our interest that the area is calmed down, politically consolidated and fully democratised. We must therefore advocate the early entry of Croatia and other countries established in the territory of the former Yugoslavia into the NATO Union, as well as into the European Union, as this distances the border of potential conflict and widens the area of stability. With this year's entry into both organisations, we can set an example and a path that is open to them if there is a firm political will and internal consensus. Your Honor! At last year's referendum, a large majority of voters supported Slovenia's entry into the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty of NATO. The people have spoken. It is up to us to confirm today's ratification of people's will. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the proposal for a law on ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Pohorec. I now give the floor to my colleague Janez Podobnik, who will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister, ministers, excellencies, ambassadors, high guests! The programme stand of the Slovenian People's Party has always been a member of the North Atlantic Alliance. That is why today we will be pleased to vote unanimously in favour of today's decision by the National Assembly. This decision also means the realization of the will of citizens and citizens at the referendum last March 23rd. We were one of the few countries when we decided to check people's will with the referendum whether we were going to NATO or not. In those months before the referendum, the Slovenian People's Party was very active. We were a lot of people, we listened to them, we convinced them, we listened to their concerns, we listened to their dilemmas, and we answered them in a reasoned, patient way, with arguments and it was worth it. Today's opportunity, today's ratification is also an opportunity to say here that the military profession in Slovenian society is in effect. Especially since the decision for the professional army and, last but not least, the result of this decision is Slovenia's entry into the NATO Union, and this needs to be emphasized.At the same time, our expectation that the Slovenian Army, its officers and deputies, together with the General Staff, will remain an authentic place of genuine patriotism, patriotism and respect for Slovenian military traditions. Let this be said especially today, because this year is also the year of Master. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have only understood the invitation to membership in NATO as a recognition by the Slovenian State that in the area of democracy, human rights protection, rule of law and the market economy we are reaching a level that is completely comparable to that of the Member States. Today it is 19 European, two out-of-European. Membership in Nat doesn't just mean joining a privileged club. No, but forever lasting respect and development of civil and democratic standards and values. Today's dimensions of the Alliance then go beyond the military and political aspects, because under its auspices there are a number of committees operating within the framework of economic and scientific cooperation, and here is an opportunity for the Slovenian industry, especially one that is highly technologically developed. In addition to possible strategic links with foreign partners in various areas of industry, services, and infrastructure, this membership also brings a message to direct investors, including in the fact that Slovenia is a safe country for foreign investment. And security is, last but not least, an important basis for the development of some for our country of important industries, such as tourism. Today's ratification of this international treaty is also an opportunity to thank all the defence ministers so far. The Slovenian People's Party was also a carrier of these departments, and all our ministers were fully aware of the importance of Slovenia's entry into NATO. And thanks to all those who have worked in various governmental and non-governmental organizations to join Slovenia in the North Atlantic Alliance. Without the conviction of these people, without their work and the effort they have put into this huge project, it might be more questionable to be part of the NATO Union. Slovenia will contribute to European and transatlantic security. Our Slovenian diplomats are present every day on numerous committees of NATO, where they are already co-forming key documents accepted by this highest body of NATO, this is the North Atlantic Council. In this way, as Slovenia co-creates global policy, we have an impact on security, which is not limited only to Slovenian territory, but we are militarily and civilly present in many stabilisation and peace operations. Our soldiers are about to surrender even to Afghanistan. They are also present in other crisis areas. Our interest is that the EU and NATO are complementing each other and working together in crisis areas, and the examples of such cooperation are already visible. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will therefore, as I said in the introduction, vote unanimously in favour of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. Comrade Jelko Kacin will now present the position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please, Comrade Kacin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u18	Dear colleagues, Madam Presidents, Members and Members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the diplomatic assembly, respected citizens and citizens! Liberal democracy of Slovenia is the largest party in the National Assembly and Coalition and has been responsible for leading our young country for years. Today, like many times before, it will once again strongly support our entry into the NATO Union. We enter it together with other nations and other countries, which have all and all common denominators. It is young democracies, formerly socialist countries, members of the former Warsaw Agreement, and even countries that were recently part of the former Soviet Union. At the time of my youth the world around me was arranged and divided, on the one hand it was hostile to NATO, on the other hand the hostile Warsaw agreement, and in the former self-government Yugoslavia we were, in the meantime, rebellious, proud, capable and determined to defend ourselves at all costs, in accordance with the principles of the doctrine of general human support and social self-protection. But with the magnification and, in particular, the increasingly undiscovered intervention of the military, more precisely the then JLA on the policy area, the regulated scheme began to fade, and the simple patterns became more and more complex. And the system of SLO and DS was misused so much that it also began to physically endanger individual components of the then Federation. At the end of the threat, he used armed forces, and even with the sole use of JLA and other armed formations, he sucked down the dust ideals of many generations. For 10 years, the Yugoslav wars had shaken the southeast of Europe and would have shaken it further if it had not gone decisively to NATO. Then he had to intervene several times, both with or without the mandate of the UN Security Council, but peace was finally established, which is not ideal in many ways, but is certainly far better than a good war. Slovenia is the only country among the successors of the SFRJ, which joins NATO and is now based on collective defence. Like the path to the European Union through its neighbours, it is only possible in NATO to improve relations with its neighbours and to overcome centuries-old conditions. In LDS, we sincerely wish that other members of the SFRJ could join NATO and that they could finally make a conscious decision about each other's alliance, in providing, maintaining and consolidating peace. In LDS we support the efforts of Croatia and all other countries of South-Eastern Europe on their way to NATO. At the same time, however, we would also like the Croatian Foreign Minister to finally only wish and be able to answer publicly, clearly and unequivocally the question already raised directly, whether General Gotovina is a national hero to him and his government. Yeah, but no, he's a hero, but he's not a hero? After such a response, we would also be able to assess more realistically how quickly our first South-East neighbour would know and be able to move forward both against the European Union and against NATO. All countries in South-Eastern Europe should pay more attention, tenderness and respect to each other. We should develop more decisively and promote mutual cooperation, mutual trade. The path towards the EU and NATO is always and everywhere, and without exception, leading through neighbours, whether or not they are EU and NATO members. Slovenia has been working with Italy and Hungary for a long time, together we are developing a special military unit and together we are contributing to ensuring and consolidating peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. From our former potential enemies, we have become good neighbours and allies, who also share the most confidential information among themselves, so that they can realistically assess threats to peace and reduce the risk of endangering our soldiers on peacekeeping missions to the lowest possible extent. In LDS, we are aware that we have never sent our soldiers as far away as we have when they leave for Afghanistan. The Alliance doesn't distance, it brings the Alliance closer together. And even the farthest places and suffering of the people there will become much closer and much more real to us because of the presence of our soldiers. Therefore, the LDS will in the future support both economic assistance to the needy and the proper equipment of our army and the provision of other conditions to make our soldiers on peacekeeping missions as effective as possible and to our allies as possible in support and assistance. Among all the new members, only we have prepared a referendum, so we are also bound by extraordinary results, after which more than two thirds of the voters confirmed the correctness of our long-standing efforts to ensure lasting peace and to invite and join NATO. In the LDS, we are happy and happy together with the allies, with the coalition partners, with the opposition and with all citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. The next one gets the word of a colleague of Saša Peca. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. You have the floor, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u20	Respectable guests! Only a naive person believes that NATO is the essence of maintaining peace and democracy, as we have heard several times today. Then the organisation, which has in its contract the basic general provisions, is written to preserve peace, democracy, the market economy, good-neighbourly relations and similar empty words, regrettably, empty words. In practice and fact, NATO is a means of achieving non-marketable economic effects, unfortunately. And this, economically, military-economic organisation is joining Slovenia today under the tactical preservation of peace. The relationship between Slovenia and NATO binds us in three main chapters, namely, first, the content, personal and financial, but unfortunately, we do not know the boundaries, neither the other nor the third, we do not know what content lies ahead, how many personal victims or the like we will have or what will happen in a financial sense. The fundamental principle of NATO, i.e. aggression against any State Party, is also an aggression against NATO. This should establish a so-called transatlantic link, or otherwise, the doctrine of aggression and the doctrine of offensiveness has begun to link Europe with the United States of America. The content of the contract dictates collective defence, but unfortunately a selective assessment and the execution of aggression by individual members, as has been shown several times in Nat's life, but unfortunately it has always remained silent under another pretext. In our opinion, this means that there are two types of members in Nat. Those who have a role and those who do not have one, and we must be aware today that Slovenia will have no role to play, unfortunately. History has shown that these and related types of military organisations formed under United States tactics in individual world areas were all short-term. It has been shown that the United States, wherever they had a certain economic, market and economic interest, had created some military alliances, but only for as long as they could do so. As the last case, or 45 years ago, such a link was established in the Middle East, where a related NATO organization was formed under United States tactics, only in another geographical area, and was Iraq’s principal partner. But what happened, you probably all know, at a time when the economic interests of the relationship with each other were lost. We also estimate that NATO's action is indicative of the timing of the attack on Yugoslavia. The attack on Yugoslavia was not an act of maintaining peace. It was a mere and typical act of economic intervention under the pretext of a military attack aimed at achieving and maintaining peace. According to our assessment, of course, we must not live in the illusion that NATO is bringing peace. No, no, no. Then it brings peace to individual countries, certain non-economic effects or effects that they cannot achieve in an economic way. Speakers have pointed out several times before me, or the government is saying that Slovenia has acted prudently and wisely when it has so actively advocated NATO's invitation in recent years, that is to say, for an invitation to its kind. According to our assessment, it would be wise and reasonable, if this national assembly, Slovenian policy in general and, above all, the Slovenian government were aware that the basis of judgment and wisdom is primarily confidence and self-awareness. Unfortunately, however, there is no confidence, no awareness of Slovenian politics. This is indicated by both the last activities before joining NATO and before entering the European Union. And allow me to devote these 20 seconds to my assessment as well as to an important matter. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, a fellow Member, Bogdan Barovic, asked this State Assembly if he would devote a minute to the victims of the Slovenian independent war. This national council said no. In my opinion, this National Assembly can be quite a shame right now. To give a minute to foreign citizens who fought elsewhere, but not so much wisdom, so much honesty, self-awareness and the importance of Slovenia, to give a minute to our people who have chosen our independence. Shame on you, National Assembly, shame on you, Mr Pahor, who at the previous session did not allow this National Assembly to devote a minute of its time to our independent fighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much, buddy. Now he has the word of his colleague Janez Janš. He will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, Excellency, high-ranking guests, colleagues and colleagues! In these days it is 13 years since the Slovenian government made its first official contact with NATO. At the beginning of the year, we met secretly with Dr Dimitri Rupl, then Foreign Minister in Brussels, Assistant Secretary-General NATO for Political Affairs, who commented on developments in the then decomposing Yugoslavia. With Slovenia's independence in 1991, new horizons have opened up, and two new paths have also emerged on these horizons, not to say the goal, namely the European Union and NATO. At the very beginning, there was a great deal of dilemma as to whether the Slovenian orientation for NATO was correct or not. When we were preparing that well-known resolution on the origins of the national security concept in 1992, the Slovenian political scene was divided by about half, we had a major dispute with the then Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, which insisted on anti-Natov positions and advocated so-called armed neutrality. When we voted on this resolution in 1993 in this National Assembly, there were many Members against, above all, those who today constitute a ruling political option. Nevertheless, the resolution was adopted. This opened the way to NATO, in early 1994 we signed the Partnership for Peace and thus entered the waiting room for NATO. An important shift was reached in 1997 when all the parliamentary parties signed our proposal for a cooperation agreement to enter NATO, which has already been mentioned, and since then this political unity has endured more or less, with a period of some years since that anti-Nat wave started, which was short-lived. In 1999, we proposed for the first time, in accordance with these guidelines in the Slovenian Democratic Party, data such as were on the table, the professionalization of the Slovenian army, the formation of a professional army and a voluntary reserve, also due to the entry into an alliance that brings new tasks. The government was then against it, it was four years before this proposal was implemented, and it is on the nose with a lot of improvisation and the consequences that we feel today. Today Slovenia is like some other members, the new members of NATO are insufficiently prepared to participate in the alliance, we have not heard about this today, although this is no secret, in the alliance as a whole, but we are not the only ones, this must be acknowledged. We have overcapacity, this is due to improvisation, it took us two years to send some soldiers to Afghanistan, and there are all of them, including many smaller countries. Inadvertently, funds were spent from basic dedicated programmes or development programmes for the Slovenian military, and aircraft were bought for civilian purposes and so on. Every year, the government goes to hideouts with defense expenses. That's why we're incredible with other partners in NATO, future partners in NATO. Never since we've been in the Partnership for Peace in ten years have we announced such defence expenditures as we have actually achieved them are they always different. Unfortunately, in our Slovenian army, we still have strong remnants of the mentality of the former JLA, which is hidden under the concept of profession, but this profession was defeated in the Balkan wars at the end of the previous century. It is more of a backward mentality that is not compatible with NATO standards, but unfortunately it has a dominant influence in the Slovenian army. And, of course, too little is the emphasis on the creation of a voluntary reserve, which, according to our potentials, is still at the heart of the defence power of the Slovenian state. But all the shortcomings I'm talking about aren't the reason against joining NATO, but they're the reasons for getting in as soon as possible. We are pleased that this step is taking place, and we are pleased that the agreement proposed and signed in 1997 has been maintained. We are pleased to join the countries in which citizens share the same values as us, and therefore we have had no difficulty in raising the flag of NATO, the European Union, at the premises of the national assembly, although unfortunately the colleges of this national assembly have had great difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u23	Mr Igor Štemberger will conclude a presentation of the views of the groups of Members by presenting the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u24	Respectable colleagues, colleagues, distinguished guests! This year is rich with such and other very important ratifications of international treaties. That's a lot of breaking events and changes. There's no doubt about it. But it seems we're not paying enough attention to how we're going to proceed. The importance of today's action certainly also confirms the presence of practically the entire ministerial assembly, and I miss the presence of our country's Commander-in-Chief of Defence. Regarding Slovenia's association with NATO in the Young Slovenia Party, we did not share the enthusiasm of the vast majority of other parties following accession to this organization. Skeptica is understandable and logical, especially if we look at developments over the last few years. Surely our desire and desire for a peaceful and non-violent policy, including non-inclusion in international military organisations, are legitimate. We believe that the most important form of Slovenian national security in the medium term is a competitive economy and social stability and that membership in the European Union for Slovenia is a satisfactory institutional guarantee for stability and political settlement of disputes. We can draw a parallel here with the professionalization of the Slovenian Army. For her, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we took part in the first for the same purpose, namely the policy of non-violence and the opposition to the militarisation of society. There is, however, a fundamental difference in how one or the other subject has been decided. The decision on the professional army was taken in the National Assembly. It was adopted directly by the National Assembly and was decided by citizens in a democratic vote. Nearly a third voted against entry, while the others who took part in the referendum decided to enter. This decision, taken at the referendum, is binding on us Members of the Party of Young Slovenia. We made that clear before the referendum. So that we will have a referendum decision regardless of our opinion, if we do otherwise, respect and vote in favour of the treaty. In the Young Slovenia Party, we will also direct the control and behaviour of Slovenian defence policy to the future of our energy and political efforts, which are further legitimately confirmed by a third of the voters who are not keen on joining NATO. We will advocate the establishment of a stand-alone defence system of the European Union countries, which have also demonstrated in recent crises that they respect global regulation, the Organization of the United Nations and the policy of dialogue to address complex global security issues. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will vote in a most democratic manner when ratifying the North Atlantic Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. For objective reasons, the Minister of Defence has missed the start of the meeting. He asked me if I could give him a word after the presentation of my views, and now I ask the Minister if he can briefly present his opinion or supplement, the explanation of the bill. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u26	Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. President, the esteemed High Council! Eleven years ago, when there was a war near us, the National Assembly, in a resolution on the origins of the national security concept, determined that our vital interest was to establish an effective security of the country by including it in NATO. Ten years ago, we joined the Partnership for Peace programme. Four years ago, we presented NATO with the first programme of implementation of the membership action plan. Two years ago, in Prague, we received an invitation to full membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. Today, we also formally reaffirm the achievement of this strategic objective. These milestones tell us everything. We are pursuing the objective pursued in a purposeful, demanding and responsible manner. Our country's membership in the collective defence system means today that the global security environment is constantly changing, the highest possible security of the country that we can achieve by taking into account our defence capabilities. We thus ensure our security and the security of the members of the Alliance directly and alongside the most influential countries in the world. The basic mission of the military capabilities of the Alliance is clear, to safeguard peace, to ensure territorial integrity, independence and the security of the members. With changes in the international security environment, NATO is also changing. The threats and challenges of the modern world have become complex and global, making the alliance a global factor in ensuring and safeguarding international peace, security and stability. After independence, our country had to establish a defence function and a defence system completely new. Membership in NATO therefore means that we knew and managed to connect the defence system with the defence systems of modern countries. This also allows us to take into account their experiences and proven solutions. This increases the efficiency, rationality and economic use of the material, human and other capacities that we have at our disposal. As a credible and responsible member of the international community, we assume our share of responsibility for the stability of the situation, not only in the region but also in the global international environment and vice versa. Our security has become an integral part of international security and stability. Membership in NATO is not only a project of the defence system of the Slovenian Army and the Ministry of Defence, but a project of the whole country. The involvement in NATO has particularly affected the long-term planning of defence reforms and the development of the Slovenian army in recent years. The goals we set ourselves are so realistic and realistic because we take into account our real possibilities, resources and knowledge. Such an approach has established us in the alliance and also in the world as reliable interlocutors and partners. This is all the more so because we are aware that the collective defence system is based on reciprocity. Which means that Slovenia has both rights and duties in this context. This is also confirmed by the fact that over a thousand members of the Slovenian Army have participated in various peace operations in recent years. More than 200 members of the Slovenian armed forces are currently operating in NATO, the European Union and the United Nations. Efforts for full membership in NATO have been an integral part of all programmes of transformation of the Slovenian army over the past years. At the beginning of this millennium, we have adopted the most important strategic, developmental, normative and other documents on which the implementation of defence reforms is based. Stable public and policy support and a sufficient material basis have enabled us to change the army's replenishment system and start implementing a new force structure. We have begun to change the entire system of military training and education. Despite some problems, the vast majority of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces support these changes and is their key vehicle. Membership in NATO is also a kind of validation of the effectiveness of their work as well as of our work together. Despite the big changes, we have not forgotten that the Slovenian Army must remain ours, Slovenian military traditions must live in its organisation and operation. Ladies and gentlemen, even at this moment of celebration, there is no time for sleeping on laurels. We've reached full membership in Nat. In the strategic defence review, we assessed last year's state of play in the implementation of defence reforms. We have set long-term guidelines for their future development, we are preparing a new general, long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2015. It will specify the solutions and measures for the further development of units and forces that will be able to carry out collective defence tasks effectively. Dear Members and Members! Membership in NATO is a long-term process that will be a constant in the development of our defence system of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the whole country. Future objectives and plans are clear, realistic and, above all, achievable. They will be reached by the Slovenian Army and the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. As we decided in January on the Act of Ratification of the Accession Treaty, we will also decide today on the law on ratification of the NATO Treaty with a two-thirds majority. 3a. Article of the Constitution stipulates: "Slovenia may, by an international treaty ratified by a national assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members, transfer the exercise of labour rights to international organisations based on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the principles of the rule of law and enter into a defence relationship with countries based on respect for these values." I allow myself to inform this high assembly and all the high guests that the National Assembly will especially mark the day when Slovenia will actually join NATO and the day it actually joins the European Union. On these two occasions, it will also symbolically and solemnly hang both flags. With regard to the five-year events, however, I think it is useful and appropriate to have all the leaders of the parliamentary groups informed about them in advance and to reach a discreet agreement. We will now move on to an explanation of the votes or positions of individual Members and Members, i.e. to an explanation of vote. Before this, let me inform you that no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, so there is no debate on articles and amendments. We're at the third hearing, deciding on the bill. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is also an editorial amendment on the bench to the text of the bill itself, which I ask you to follow and will be an integral part of the decision when voting on the bill. The first one wanted a word explaining the voice of his colleague Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I will say that I lack sobriety in deciding on such important matters. It is true that Slovenian society has decided to hold a referendum and yet we feel that the common European defence policy is more important than that led by NATO. Because Nate's defense policy is only in the hands of the United States. And the United States of America also acts on behalf of NATO as it does after year. Thus, America considers Croatia to be a future partner and member of the Union, then to have European bases in Croatia to control the region and to keep it broken, as this is in the interest of the United States. And this was stated by Mr Rumsfeld on 8 February this year, when he said he was eager to see Croatia become a member and a part of NATO. Then he hasn't exactly proved himself to be at peace lately. The attack on Iraq, carried out by America and England past other members of NATO, gives no strong support to good thinking. Similarly, the bombing of Yugoslavia from March to June 1999 speaks of the fact that NATO also enjoys military aggression if it considers it to be in their best interests. It would therefore make sense for us to honor here, with a minute of silence, all those civilian victims in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia who fell because of Nate's bombing. All those civilians who were being raided and bombed by the pilots knew it was about civilian transports, about trains, about buses and the like. And in the end, we are looking forward to joining NATO today, but if there were no eccentric incompetence of then Minister Thaler and Mr Drnovsk in Madrid. I think and I hope there will be a change in the concept of the Nato Pact. Maybe with the new American president. It would make sense for some things to change. Although it has been said that Slovenians are reliable interlocutors and partners, we have no big word. Perhaps it would make sense and good to send a man to these institutions who will put the Slovenian word in the right place to at least hear it, perhaps even consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. My friend Peterle has the floor. Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister with Ministers and Ministers, Excellency, High Representatives of Slovenian Justice, Slovenian Army, Dear Members and Members! I speak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. With this vote, we will conclude a democratic decision on Slovenia's path to NATO, one of the two key political objectives of the sovereign Slovenian state. It is true that today's Europe and the world are in many ways different from the time in which we first expressed our political will after joining NATO. Nevertheless, in New Slovenia we do not see any alternative to the alliance, which binds us to common values, principles, rules of the game, solidarity and cooperation. To support this law in New Slovenia we do not see the basis only for our own reasons, but in particular in the binding fact that the inclusion in NATO was supported by Slovenian citizens and citizens plebiscitefully. We also support the law in the belief that no Slovenian democratic authority will see in NATO only a safe umbrella and a suitable geopolitical placement, but above all the possibility of a permanent peace effort based first on respect for the dignity of man, nations and minorities. New Slovenia sees in today's decision another proof that Slovenia sees no opposition between the European Union and NATO, but an urgent strategic and partnership complementarity. We support the greater security and defence identity of the European Union, but within the defined transatlantic partnership. New Slovenia wants to gain Slovenia and all the alliance with which it will associate us, an even more active effort for more peace and security in the world, first in the south-east direction. On this occasion, the new Slovenia expresses another expectation that the government will prepare and implement all its decisions regarding NATO in a credible and transparent manner, in accordance with democratic rules of the game. On this special occasion, however, we express our gratitude to all those who have contributed to our becoming members of this important world family, especially and first to those who have set up everything for us to make this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. My friend Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u32	Thank you, President. As I will vote, I have already told you on the Foreign Policy Committee, I would just like to explain further. Colleagues and colleagues, before we press the button, let us read again the preamble and in particular Article 1 of this Treaty, which we are ratifying today. I will read Article 1 briefly: "The Contracting Parties undertake that all international disputes in which they could be involved shall be resolved peacefully, as provided for in the United Nations Charter, so that international peace, security and justice are not threatened and that threats of force or use of force are contained in their international relations in a manner that is not in accordance with the objectives of the United Nations." And, we ask ourselves, is the conduct of the most powerful and influential members of the organization, the one that is supposed to be exemplary, in which we also deposit instruments of accession to the treaty, in line with this provision in the case of Iraq? It's hard to attach. And because it is difficult to attach, this tells us that this treaty is flexible, flexible and its definitions are being implemented in the way that the most powerful members determine. Well, it's an incredible contract for me, and I can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u33	Please, colleagues, if they check the voting devices, if they're all right, this is evidence of a burning light. We will move to a vote where a two-thirds majority of all Members and Members is required, i.e. the largest constitutional majority, and I ask you to gather us in the vote. Is there an obstacle? Can we make a decision? The National Assembly will therefore decide on a proposal for a law on ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. We're voting. 73 present, 68 for and 3 for. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I congratulate the National Assembly on this act, all our people who voted in the referendum. Now I invite everyone to the lobby to toast to the allies and to toast Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u34	We're moving to six. It's a day's work. May I have your attention, please? We move on to the first defensive proposal for a law on a supportive business environment. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members, signed first by Mr Anton Anderlic, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the government, Minister of Economy, Dr Tei Petrin, and I also welcome the State Secretary of Mag. Matthew Meshl, present at the sitting. You have the floor, Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u35	Dear Members and Members! The substantive reasons for issuing the new law stem from the changed conditions of management and the challenge of global competition followed by the development policy of Slovenia. This is an increase in the competitive capacity of the economy to operate on the global market, creating a dynamic structure of the economy and increasing the share of high added value activities, which requires first and foremost exposure to an environment conducive to entrepreneurship and innovation. Therefore, the basic objective of the law is to create an entrepreneurial environment that activates human, financial and material frameworks for easy entry and successful business growth and to optimise the exploitation of entrepreneurial and innovation potentials in Slovenia and includes: raising entrepreneurial culture in the environment and establishing an effective support system for access to information and services for entrepreneurs, which will contribute to the accelerated creation and successful operation of small and medium-sized enterprises, medium-sized enterprises, the development of an innovation environment, forms of knowledge-and-economy linkages that will accelerate and increase the efficiency of knowledge transfer to products, services and processes, as they will contribute to the faster development and growth of new technology-intensive enterprises and the technological and developmental capacities of active companies. Improving the availability and access to financial resources, strengthening the financial market in Slovenia and stimulating private and other sources of finance for investment investments in the enterprise sector, and in particular for the provision of initial and risk capital, which will contribute to greater developmental orientation and faster growth of small and medium-sized enterprises and to accelerating the creation of new innovative companies. The proposed law consists of seven chapters regulating the object and purpose of the law and presenting with the European Union a harmonised definition of small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. Legal basis for the adoption of a national programme to promote entrepreneurship. The law lays down the basis for directing State budget resources on the basis of a programme of measures to encourage entrepreneurship. The programme shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of five years or a period consistent with the financial perspective of the European Union. The importance of the programme is to set guidelines and priorities for policy implementation in relation to strategic documents and development trends, the basis for the planning and use of European Union funds, structural funds and other resources, and the basis for participation in Community programmes and international comparisons. Furthermore, it also defines the implementation of the tasks and programmes of the entrepreneurial environment. The State shall carry out tasks in the area of development of the business support environment through a public institution to promote entrepreneurship or a public agency to promote entrepreneurship and by conferring public authority. This is currently being done by the small-economy acceleration centre. The law defines the possibilities of linking a public institution with other public law institutions, provided that this makes it possible to perform tasks more efficiently and more effectively. Innovation and transfer of knowledge and new technologies. In this area, the new law lays down the legal basis for keeping records of the institutions of the innovative environment, rules for the allocation of public-interest services and for the functioning of institutions that contribute to the faster creation and transfer of knowledge and the strengthening of the innovation capacity of enterprises and provide an enabling environment for the creation and initial operation of new innovative companies. This will contribute to a more transparent and efficient channelling of public funds in support of the functioning of institutions, strengthening the capacity of institutions to deliver services in a high-quality manner, reducing administrative costs at national level, more direct and professional targeting of resources in relation to the development priorities of individual sectors or groups of enterprises. Building institutions of an innovative environment also provides an important basis for establishing a quality implementation structure for the use of the European Union's development resources. Furthermore, the law also introduces measures by the State to improve access to financing of development investments for small, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises implemented by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. The Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development of a Small Economy in Maribor is established under the Law on Public Funds and the Law on the Promotion of a Small Economy. During the period 1996 to 2002, on the basis of the earmarked capital, 10 billion tolars were achieved and, according to the legally defined possible instruments, significant results were achieved. The analysis produced shows that access to funding sources for SMEs is still the most vulnerable problem where measures aimed at the following are needed in particular. The development of new instruments that will provide support in all stages of development and in order of investment needed by companies for successful development. The instrument of lowering the interest rate, which was an overweighted instrument, the main instrument of the current fund for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is losing importance. The need to provide guarantees for leased loans is highlighted. New companies, early growth of start-ups and capital investments in risk projects, in new, innovative start-ups and early growth stages. Connecting financial incentives to other forms of support for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular through the development of services that will increase the supply of quality development projects and improve accessibility to funding sources. Use of public funds to a greater extent to attract and increase the investment of commercial financial institutions in projects of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is about strengthening the indirect role of the financial institution and linking with banks, venture capital funds, international financial institutions and the like, and also increasing the volume of earmarked funds. It is because of these findings that the law supports guidelines and measures to improve access to funding sources for small and medium-sized enterprises by providing the basis for the development of new instruments and under the existing fund as a response to the provision of shortcomings as new needs. Before that, I would like to mention that, just last week, the Fund signed a contract with the European Investment Fund to obtain an important guarantee potential. This law gives the possibility that the entrepreneurship fund - as proposed in this law - will be able to obtain a legal basis for this fund to be renamed in Maribor, so that it can draw on and benefit from other financial instruments that the European Commission also offers and enables all members through this European Investment Fund. However, the latest developments in this law are also public powers to implement the Programme of Action. The law provides that legal persons of public and private law acting in the field of entrepreneurship may, for a certain period, be given public authority by a decision on the basis of a public tender to carry out the administrative tasks defined in the Programme of Action. In order to obtain a public authorisation, the legal person must fulfil the conditions laid down in the law. The draft law also provides for the adoption of a sub-legislative regulation that will give more precise effect to the conditions, criteria, criteria and procedure for granting public authority. This may be withdrawn from the holder of the public authority if irregularities have been identified in his business, if the tasks have not been carried out in accordance with the programme, if the tasks are not carried out in time and there are major irregularities in the performance of the tasks. Dear Members and Members, if you support the proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship, you will make an important contribution to the elimination of some of the key barriers to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship and, of course, contribute significantly to the creation of a dynamic and vital structure of the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam Minister, for further explanation of the bill. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. First, the position of New Slovenia. Dr. Andrei Bajuk has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia is certainly one of the most pressing outstanding issues for our economic development. Finally, it is a key question, on whom can we rely, that the expected economic development will come true.The developed countries that trust in private initiative have long resolved this. In transition countries, in those who are on the transition from planning or more or less agreed economies where, as in Slovenia, old models of opinion still prevail, this remains unresolved. In an explanation in its proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship, the government notes the declining trend in the creation of new enterprises, the slow growth of micro and small enterprises and the low share of new innovative companies. The government refers to a survey last year under the auspices of the European Commission "enterprises innovation scoreboard". The government reports that this analysis - and I quote now - "reaffirms that it represents access to funding sources both in the start-up phase and in the growth phase of the company of one of the main problems in Slovenia. The reasons for this situation in Slovenia, which is not reported by the European Commission, are estimated to appear both on the supply side - this is said in the capital market - as well as on investment projects. And while we agree with such a global assessment, I must point out that there is a significant discrepancy in the government's approach to resolving this issue. According to our assessment, the main problem is far from what the government is assessing, namely that there is a problem on the supply side of insufficient adequate financial instruments or guarantees, initial, investment capital. On the basis of this assessment, the government has drawn up this bill, which in essence only increases state bureaucracy, but does not mention anything and consequently does not address the problems that are crucial in our assessment of nature. The fact is, regardless of the instruments - one or the other - that we can further create so that all of these instruments will not achieve any effectiveness, as long as the government remains consciously ignoring the most pressing problem. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided and the Prime Minister also publicly boasts that the country is in exclusive debt on the domestic financial market. Given that we have an ever-increasing deficit in our public finances, the government is actually consciously monopolizing the possibilities of our financial system for its needs, and thus is actually undermining the private sector. It is pointless for the Slovenian government to be in debt on the domestic market when it can achieve more favourable conditions outside our borders. This would also make sense for other reasons, such as relative access to external capital resources by the State and private parties. The country has an immeasurably greater potential than the private sector, as far as access to international financial markets is concerned. But when it concentrates on domestic markets, it also has greater advantages here. For example, only why Slovenian banks would devote themselves to the needs of the development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia, when they can lend without any effort to the Slovenian government. Who will care for the needs of Slovenian entrepreneurs under such conditions? Do you really expect, respected colleagues and colleagues of the ruling coalition, that foreign banks will devote their activities to our development with the same zeal and expertise as domestic institutions? In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that Slovenia must direct Slovenian savings in support of its own development. To the extent that the Slovenian government does not do so, as long as it persists in the wrong path and actually continues to play the role of dried mushrooms, which over all the financial resources in the domestic market are effectively drawn to their enormous needs, such proposals as this law, which we are considering today, will be only a marginal cosmetic correction, otherwise interesting in the pre-election campaign. However, every entrepreneur in Slovenia knows well that I say at home that it will not be any of this. It is also necessary for the government to focus on another problem, which it mentions but does not pay any attention to. In fact, and I quote here, "in comparison, Slovenia is also significantly lagging behind in the area of removing administrative barriers to business creation and promoting innovation in micro-small and medium-sized enterprises." Let me refresh your memory. In 1998, the Slovenian government commissioned a survey of the IFC investment financing corporation, the subsidiary of the World Bank. I myself have been informed of this research and of proposals including those related to administrative obstacles to the development of entrepreneurship. Dr Drnovska's government has at least formally taken on this and appointed a senior official to take on this issue. Remember, the anti-biocratic program. Now, after a long five years of existence of this programme and the responsible office to implement it, the government is giving us its own price, namely, that we are far behind in the area where the restrictions on business development are being lifted. But nothing tells us what it intends to do, but at the same time it proposes new institutions, new funds, additional funds, to all that we already have and that obviously do not work effectively. The proposal, which in itself means an additional increase in bureaucracy. More than that, in explanation of where the funds for the new fund are coming from, we are told that there are transfers of funds already allocated, including this anti-biocratic programme, which should focus on removing all obstacles that prevent such a development of entrepreneurship that we inevitably need, as long as we hope that we can be a part of tight competition now that we are at the threshold of entry into the EU. Of course, based on experience, we can expect our warnings to have the same effect on the functioning of our government as anything else. Nothing! It's like throwing beans against a wall, I'd say, by the way. However, let me reiterate: as long as the ruling coalition is now in the last months of its ten-year mandate, it will not be able to do so without burdening Slovenia's financial system either by abolishing additional debt in Slovenia - it is said that once and for all it will only make order in the house in the field of public finances - or by seeking its additional debt in the financial markets beyond our borders, to which it has no doubt access and currently more favourable conditions than at home. Similarly, the government will have to deal seriously with the removal of all kinds of administrative obstacles, the area in which we are lagging behind, as it assesses and reports to this national assembly. That is why in New Slovenia we estimate that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Do We Need Any Laws? Yeah, sure, but this isn't the law we need. However, since there is obviously a great possibility that, despite our warnings, the ruling coalition will also accept this proposal, we will indicate some shortcomings and, according to our assessment, also grave nonsense and gaps that certainly require fundamental corrections. In the first chapter, the general provisions, we believe that the introduction of the concept of a micro-enterprise is correct, but we expect that the government will give professional reasons for increasing annual revenues as a criterion for classifying small, medium-sized enterprises, which so far have been called medium-sized enterprises. A concept that is not known by the company law. We cannot shake the feeling that it is finally just an increase in the number of enterprises to the resources and benefits provided by the proposed law. We must not forget that we currently find in business more than 112 thousand entities, of which, after the amendment of the law, they fall into the MSE scheme of over 82 thousand, that is to say 85% of all, including a number of shareholders, who will be so entitled to funds. Given our experience in the field of concentration of economic power in Slovenia, we are justifiably skeptical, as it is expected that the larger companies have organised themselves quickly and better and that, if I may say so at home, they have collected cream. For so-called micro-enterprises, however, resources will not be available, although the proposed law refers specifically to their needs. As regards the second chapter on the entrepreneurship promotion programme, I must draw attention to the essential emptiness of the proposal. What are you suggesting in these three articles? The Minister or Minister of Economy will prepare the programme, present it to the government, and of course it will be accepted. The National Assembly and the legislative authority in Slovenia are informed in Article 5 of an inventory of undefined measures, instruments and indicators to change the efficiency of consumption. In fact, Article 5 is read as an illustration of an unwritten book. Of course, in Article 6, the National Assembly itself declares that the resources for this exercise will be provided in the budget. Your Honor, such an approach is not serious. This is not a bill, but a legal promise that a minister or minister will do something. Because I'm running out of time to just point that out. When you read the explanations, the numbers are wrong, it is very difficult to follow Article 22 is missing, but for the so-called correction at the beginning I don't know what it refers to, because at last it just repeats the third point that we are supposed to change, it also shows the unresolved approach and the attitude of the executive power of our government towards this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you. Janko Weber has the floor for the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, chairman, and a nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship is with the aim, which is also set out in this text, a law that we support in the United List of Social Democrats, since it is a matter of creating an entrepreneurial environment that activates all resources, human, financial and material. It is about easy entry and successful business growth and optimal exploitation of entrepreneurial and innovation potentials in Slovenia. If we add somehow to this goal the spoils of this law, which is supposed to be reflected in the creation of new businesses, in the growth of micro- and small-scale enterprises and in the creation of innovative enterprises, this is certainly the goal that we are pursuing in the United List of Social Democrats. If we add to this the current moment, the entry of Slovenia into the European Union, and since it must therefore also comply with European Union legislation - this is mainly about the definition of micro- and medium-sized enterprises - and if it is also the basis for facilitating the operation of micro-enterprises to eliminate bureaucratic procedures, then we will also raise the threshold for the competitiveness of our companies, in particular by reducing costs; that is, costs arising through administrative procedures. Of course, the law says that other laws of origin will have to define exactly how these costs will be reduced, so they would add some warnings to this law, or add some warnings to that text. We point out that we should be prepared in a short time and also adopt parental laws that will actually make these rationalisations possible, because we would be very pleased if we could even consider this law at the same time, as well as the amendment of the laws of origin, which would define all these procedures more precisely. Another key issue is the effectiveness of the functioning of institutions that will work in the area of the development of a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. The forms provided for in this law are that the State implements, I will say, a supportive environment for entrepreneurship through a public institution, or a public agency, or a form of granting public authority. In the fact that the current contractor has promoted a small-economy centre to plow the ice in this area, by actually setting up a network of acceleration centres for a small economy mainly on the basis of local environmental interest, we would also point out that we should not simply skip the work done by the acceleration centre. Even if we go into new forms, as envisaged in other public institutions or agencies and by granting public authority, we expect these new forms of support environment operators to take into account the work done so far and, in particular, the acceleration centres created in the local environment, as well as those centres that have direct contact with entrepreneurs as well as with representatives of the small economy. Therefore, we also expect that in the case of the granting of public authority, especially private law, this must be very precisely defined, because there is a risk that private capital will go primarily to those environments which are extremely interesting for private capital. However, these environments may stand up, which are not interesting enough for private capital due to such and other developmental problems. In this case, in our view, we also need to maintain the possibility of the country implementing a supportive environment for the development of entrepreneurship through public institutions or public agencies, otherwise we may have areas that will not be actively involved in the development of entrepreneurship. It makes sense for us to think about both options, whether private capital or private law, as well as public institutions, of course. These opportunities for joint representation of both state and private capital are, of course, a form that is certainly appropriate. We also believe that there is sufficient readiness in the local environment within the local government itself or in the municipalities to include them as co-founders in such enterprises, and we believe that this is also one of those possible thirds of the implementation of entrepreneurship and the creation of a supportive environment for entrepreneurship, where the interests of the State, the interests of the private sector and, last but not least, the interest of local self-government are truly involved. This is particularly important because the law also speaks of establishing a so-called financial environment based on three pillars - here, of course, we welcome the first pillar, which speaks of being used for the development of a supportive environment for entrepreneurship, that is the property that is, of course, available within the Republic of Slovenia, and it is right to try to build on it also in the development of entrepreneurship. Of course, it makes sense for the so-called second pillar to complement the basic purpose to be achieved by the use and activation of assets, so this second pillar is talking about trying to make use of the offer of favourable financial lines from international sources and, of course, also the establishment of guarantees through the financial fund itself. The fact is that this possibility exists and we believe that even with Slovenia's entry into the European Union we cannot talk about avoiding international resources, because the purpose of Slovenia's entry into international relations was, however, to try, of course, to get as much opportunities as possible for the development of entrepreneurship or the economy, and certainly this second pillar also offers them through these international sources. And of course, even the third development pillar or financial pillar, which speaks of developing risk areas or receptions, is an additional asset from the transfer or transfer from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is precisely the part of the earmarked resources from our budget, which we believe must, of course, be specially controlled. Here I would like to return only for a moment to the fact that, as long as we grant public powers to individuals of private law, effective control of the budgetary resources to be allocated to the development of entrepreneurship will also have to be established, perhaps through public powers. Therefore, taking into account all these warnings, we believe that the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment is suitable for further consideration and, of course, we will also support this law in general treatment, but we expect that in the specific comments to each article there will be further improvements in the text of the law, in particular in the direction of the best possible transfer and establishment of the support environment throughout the Republic of Slovenia, and that, of course, there will be as much effective supervision as possible in the use of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u40	Stanislav Brenčič is responsible for the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I very much welcome the Minister with her co-worker and all of you colleagues. The proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship practically replaces the existing law on the development of a small economy, which would essentially pursue similar, if not the same objectives. Its purpose, in short, was to create conditions and incentives for the establishment of new and the development and growth of existing units of small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposal for this law, which we are considering this time in terms of appropriateness for further consideration, should therefore be based on a realistic and objective assessment, rather than on an analysis of the situation in the implementation of the existing Small Economy Development Act over a period of 12 years. As such, it should primarily address weaknesses and obstacles that have affected anything particularly pervasive and solidly stable development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposal for a law based on our behaviour at the declaration level sets its purpose well, but too many of the solutions are left to the many regulations adopted by the government or issued by the Minister responsible for the economy. We believe that the proposal for a law should introduce several ambitions and initiatives by, in particular, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and also the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, at least in terms of the exercise of certain public powers that they have or would be given or retrusted under this law. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, and also with measures and solutions in the sense of establishing a solid support environment for the development of an entrepreneurial initiative, the aim of less administration should be to stimulate those who have already invested substantial resources for their own existence and development and to increase the scope of the activity and to establish an already targeted enterprise structure. Incentive measures, in particular in terms of non-refundable financial support, at least as initial investments, must be given to individual entrepreneurs who establish or expand or increase the activity of an already existing company in an environment that is developmentally lagging behind. We also believe that, with particular emphasis on the supporting instruments of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which the proposal for a law establishes again by reshaping the current public fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of the small economy, giving priority to financial subsidies and investment in the development of business infrastructure in enterprises that are set up as family enterprises and to introducing new products with a higher added value. The Slovenian People's Party Group believes that it is necessary to examine well and re-examine the meaning of the Fund's instrument, which subsidises the interest rate on the loans hired, as this primarily stimulates or gives comfort to banks in order not to try to offer investment loans to their creditors as low as possible. This should be self-initiative for them to make it possible to essentially increase the monetary plans of their committees in their banks. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the purpose of establishing as many eligible stable resources from the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and to this end it would also be advisable to allocate part of the funds created by the sale of its shares in companies on the market by the Slovenian Compensation Fund. A key condition for the expected better implementation of the proposed law than the current one is in practice is how strong and successful supervision will be established; I stress the supervision of the exercise of public powers with regard to the implementation of the entrepreneurship promotion programmes. We will support the bill as a good basis for further consideration, because we believe that the entrepreneurial spirit cannot be created, but circumstances, cultural and positive climates can be created in which the initiative, risk and impact are shown to be socially attractive and financially favourable, thus encouraging its emergence. So far, it has turned out that many of the rules adopted for the best of purposes have actually turned people away from entrepreneurship. Therefore, as is the case with our future members of the European Union, we should also have policies in this area of implementation with minimum, effective and living rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u42	Thank you, Comrade Brenčič. Mag. Blaž Kavčič has the floor for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u43	Your Honor! An active and positive attitude to what the entrepreneurial environment is is, is articulated both in the countries of the permanent or old members of the European Union and also in the accession countries, of course, in other countries around the world, but most where we can also detect medium-sized economic growth and development. Also in analysing some of the negative developments in our economic environment, it is beneficial to tackle the dilemma, what and how the country should do in the economy at all. Ensuring the permanent existence of individual economic operators, regardless of their economic, technological, political circumstances, has become a very clear and loud demand that we can hear and read. Does the state of the sea and must know how to prevent the existence of Tobacco Ljubljana, for example, from drastically reducing the number of jobs required in footwear, textile and other activities? The answer is no. Such a solution has been tested by the theorists and practices of centrally-planned socialist management. It has clearly proved that such a system cannot work in practice. What, then, can and must a modern country do in this area? First, the measure of effectiveness of this country or of that country cannot be designed around the number of extinguishing entities. More! Exclusion of individual economic operators is a necessary process in each modern market economy that allows the reallocation of production producers, i.e. people, knowledge, capital from less productive use to more productive use. Therefore, from less productive use, which means, in addition to poor return on capital invested, also poor wages, difficulties in collecting taxes and contributions, poor relation to the environment and so on. The country's performance criteria in designing and managing economic policy must be based on a balance sheet between new jobs and closed jobs, then on a trend of some average and aggregate additional value and so on. Of course, it is also very important to ensure that economic restructuring processes are socially acceptable. And the very supportive environment for entrepreneurship is one of the key modern instruments with which the country can and must influence the performance of economic operators. In international comparisons, Slovenia is significantly lagging behind in the area of removing administrative barriers to the establishment and operation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The backlogs are also visible in promoting innovation. We are too innovative in short, especially in the transfer of knowledge into the economy from other environments. Analysis shows that access to funding sources is one of the most critical factors. Problems are present both on the supply side and on the demand side. In this context, the offer is mainly due to a lack of adequate financial instruments, guarantees, initial capital, additional risk capital. Demand, of course, means an area where we still cannot be satisfied with the accessibility of quality support services to entrepreneurs. That is why we see the objectives of the law in particular in the following: First of all, this is information. The solutions proposed are intended to provide entrepreneurs with better access to information and services. On this basis, the proposer wants to achieve an increase in the number of new micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and to make them more effective once they are established. Another time. It's an innovation environment. In particular, the proposaler wants to improve the knowledge transfer system to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the development of the innovation environment itself. And third time, finance. The proposer seeks to improve the availability of and access to financial resources through this law. The possibility is seen by the proposer mainly in strengthening the financial market in Slovenia, stimulating private and other sources of financing with the purpose of investing in the business sector. The solutions that the proposer seeks to achieve are, in particular, the following. For the first time, there is a clear segmentation of companies to micro, small and medium, with a particularly important focus on the micro segment, which means an enterprise with up to ten employees and up to 470 million annual realizations. Small businesses that employ up to 50 people and reach up to 2.3 billion annual transport and medium-sized enterprises that employ up to 250 people and reach up to 11 and a half billion annual transport. Furthermore, there is a group of solutions that lays down the programming bases for the promotion of entrepreneurship and competitiveness. Then, in an entrepreneurial environment, the law provides the possibility of connecting a public institution with other public law institutions. New solutions in the area of an innovative environment are in line with the Lisbon strategy, innovation policy and industrial policy. In the financial environment, solutions focus mainly on developing new financial instruments, linking financial incentives with other forms of support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and intensifying the investment of commercial financial institutions in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. If we also assess the financial consequences of this law, I must first find that the law has relatively modest financial ambitions. It represents about 0.6 per cent of the annual budget. That's probably modest. Of course, there is a question to which it would be useful to answer below whether such a level of investment is appropriate, too small or too high. Of course, before we begin to actively express our ambitions to increase these investments, but it would probably be useful to strengthen the third chapter, a proper assessment of the financial implications, with a slightly clearer presentation of the dynamic relationship between inputs and effects, what investment so far has brought us, what is the relationship between the cost of operating the system and effective investment in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Otherwise, the LDS proposal is considered suitable for further consideration and will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u44	Following is the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and colleague Sašo Peče.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u45	Your Honors are here! About what the speaker sounded like in front of me, I imagine they sounded like once about the communists when they were talking about the next five-year plans and things like that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u46	This point does not allow controversy with other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u47	I am afraid that this kind of debate, especially when it comes to such thinking, will become completely meaningless. In the Slovenian National Party, we claim to be late. In the Slovenian National Party, we claim that we are late for much. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Economy have only recently become aware of the importance and consequences of joining the European Union and thus new market categories and new conditions that will enable the survival of Slovenian entrepreneurship in new markets. Last November, however, the Slovenian government had the opportunity to discuss the future of Slovenian entrepreneurship in general on a proposal from the Slovenian National Party. This National Assembly has had the opportunity to talk about the new unemployed, which we, Slovenian politicians, or which we, Slovenian politicians, will cause to Slovenian politicians because we are so headless and unwittingly following the plans of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to create competitiveness in our country. The National Assembly, with a large majority of Members from the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS, has proposed that we talk about doing something, what we will do and how we will protect our Slovenian population, Slovenian entrepreneurship, refuse. For reasons unknown to me, the National Assembly gave up an hour, two hours, where we could get a comprehensive picture and tell us what we are, what citizens and citizens and entrepreneurs are, on the one hand, employees and employers want in this country, and what they expect from us. I do not believe that they want us to follow the Lisbon strategy, as the speaker said before me, and which is so much to promise, but practically means nothing. As you probably know, at least those of you, I hope that there is at least something between you, among the government Members who know that in the National Party, we have tried to save this kind of material through various laws, which would reflect the quality and conditions of creating new jobs, both by foreign, medium or large enterprises. It was a takeover law where you said government representatives, no, foreign takes over, this country of ours, they're not worried about our policy. Slovenia has opted for Europe and it is right that foreign capital will take us in full and complete. We have tabled a proposal to prevent restrictions on competition. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that it does not touch us. The market economy is something that goes beyond the so-called visible or invisible deadlines, that is, the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, which should create some macroeconomic conditions in order to create conditions in this country for the normal competitive ability of companies, which will be 1.5, if not yet, to meet new rules of conduct. No! No! But Slovenian politicians have always said, no, it's a topic that doesn't touch us at all, let entrepreneurs do their thing. We, politicians, that is to say, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a good part of the Members of this National Assembly, will tax them only and only tax them: either through new taxes or by raising existing taxes and, of course, always with accompanying activity, this means a new administration that represents - I hope you know - not only a waste of time, but also costs. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided, on the basis of an introductory explanation, that the reasons for the adoption of this law or of this legal text are, in particular, a change in the functioning of the market. I have to be honest, and I do not want to be sarcastic, but I am very pleased that the government has found that the environment, the market is changing and that it is the task of us politicians to create conditions for our entrepreneurs, so that they can perceive this change, that they can work in these modified markets at all. According to my assessment, until now, until this point, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not perceive this, but with its left hand it has written down the whole change, namely, the functioning of the market, innovation, the business environment, resources or potential. The fact is that the legislation proposed so far by the Liberal Democracy, which means the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, has been a burden: for the first time both workers and for the second time, which is equally important, workers. The legislation we have adopted has brought nothing but new burdens, we have burdened them in this area, in one area and in the third. We have burdened them in such a way that we have not allowed them: for the first time, not the location, for the second time, not the financial, for the third time, not the substantive and for the fourth time, not that we are able, internationally, to be able not only to monitor the development of competition abroad, but to create more than just to be there and to weep for them. In the National Party, despite the Minister's speech that there has been no stimulation in the development of the Republic of Slovenia for entrepreneurship, they were not to the extent that it would make sense to say, of course, some companies that are - I will use this term capital or friendlyly close to Liberal Democracy have obtained certain stimulation. According to our assessment, all those funds that in the very title carry sound words about how they are citizens and are environmentally friendly do not work. It's just about increasing the administration. According to our assessment, the state of entrepreneurship, under the tactics of Liberal Democracy, has unfortunately not encouraged. In fact, in my words, not only will the actual situation in our country, which will be particularly evident after 1.5.2004, but the structure of the budget also speaks for my words. As you probably know - I hope you know - the budget revenue consists of 90% of tax revenue. So those revenue burdened on one side of the physical, on the other side of the legal person in our country. 90% of all assets are burdened by a natural and legal person in our country. And then let someone else say about this booth or in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that we have a company in Slovenia that promotes entrepreneurship! No! No! We are creating a society that promotes the introduction of new taxes and increases existing taxes. In my opinion, this kind of burden is completely irrelevant. The fact is that, unfortunately, we have been stressing this for four years and that, with the exception of last year's budget debate - no one has reacted. Last year you said it was a political move, but good, at least you reacted. According to our assessment, this has made great progress. According to my assessment, the law before us today is a mockery of entrepreneurship, for it represents everything we have missed in our country so far. This country would still, in my opinion very late, be able to do something if it wanted Slovenia to become strong or stay strong, however you wish, strong in the markets of the European Union. But, of course, a friendly approach. Not by a class approach like that - according to our assessment also under the title of this law, which is even more evident, from the way the Government of the Republic of Slovenia operates - you cause. In the law, you are talking about the European Union's resources or the pursuit of one goal. The fact is that Slovenia has gained little from the association or from the membership period from the funds. Once again, only those who are capital or politically close to Liberal Democracy were acquired. But to open these funds to the rest of us - no! Because of the administration, because of the incompetence of the Slovenian government! However, I believe that the main reason for not reaching an enviable level was that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wanted to hear the words in a report from the European Union, where funds are discussed: Slovenia, Slovenian entrepreneurship or the local community did not draw from the environmental policy; and this is positive. But of course, in exchange for this commendation, you have hurt the Slovenian state. Is this exchange correct? I don't think so. But unfortunately, this exchange is right for most of you. Labour legislation within the European Union is in the domain of national legislation. This means that for the issue of the unemployed, domestic legislation is still important for the issue of competition creation. You are, unfortunately, perhaps in the area of monetary policy or tax policy - we have both proposed in the National Party - you have always refused. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia's reply to the tax relief law or fiscal policy was directly from Minister Tee Petrin, that it is in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia to have tax exemptions for foreign investors. It's over! If at least it were still a comma and it would continue to be in the interest of our country, that it is financially and/or - I apologize - we also fiscally encourage domestic economic operators. No! No! But the government of the Republic of Slovenia has made a point on foreign investors. I can safely say that the Republic of Slovenia, under your leadership, did not want to create legislation that would have the effect of creating a competitive position, creating good companies, creating such companies that would not forgive the problem of the European Union. According to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, has chosen a different direction. I have already said: the introduction of new taxes, the increase in the rate of existing taxes, have introduced administrative barriers, which are also reflected in the costs, patience and the creation of new jobs. Of course, according to my assessment, the country should take a very different step. Firstly, to create conditions that would encourage a private initiative, not only in the form of survival, but in particular that this private initiative is successful so that Slovenians can say as well, and we are in some area leading, not only that we Slovenians are fighting that we will not have an increase in the unemployed. But the situation in Slovenia is unfortunately different. We have found that the growth rate of small businesses is declining. But nobody cares about that. We have found that the capital market is fiscally limited. I have addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a law based on the Income Act in order to avoid the tax burden of trading securities from two years to zero. This would enable the transfer or new investment in the country and avoid the transfer of domestic capital abroad. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not been prepared or ready to respond to such a measure for new investments - or which would trigger new investments. I don't think it's just the ignorance of the government. Because if it were pure ignorance, I would think that one day this government would no longer be ignorant. In my opinion, it is only for the purpose of this government to reward individuals who are again capital or politically close to the LDS so much more. The result of the bill we addressed to the government, which was not answered at all, would therefore be an increase in domestic investment in entrepreneurship, as we are talking about this mother of the law. And secondly, a reduced outflow of domestic capital, a variety of off-shore companies. Allow me to return to my original sin, i.e. that original sin on the structure of budgetary revenue between tax and tax revenues. For all of those; the tax revenues are those that natural and legal persons have to pay, or we will be subject to penalties. Non-tax revenues are those that could be increased through Slovenian legislation, the concession law, which we are still waiting for, which could be increased by normal participation in public companies, profits and similar things. According to our assessment, however, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not plan to change the existing strategy, i.e. to preserve entrepreneurship, even through the latest taxation of savings. At the same time, when a State taxes savings, it does not introduce new instruments where capital is available. If at least the state gave an alternative to this and said, or in connection with the income law proposed by the Slovenian National Party, this would encourage entrepreneurship, it would all make sense. He doesn't, I'm afraid. I'm so sorry to interrupt. My time's up. In my opinion, I'm only going to touch one thing. If the speaker spoke before me about whether the state should intervene when jobs are lost in Tobacco, Vidma and elsewhere - these companies will be with 1.5 more - my answer is different from Liberal Democracy: yes, the state must help, given that it lives exclusively from the taxes of this country. If the State is taking, the State should also give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u48	Thank you. I have previously intervened a little, and I ask for respect for the principle that when presenting the views of the groups of Members you do not dispute with the predecessors, because this option will then be given in the debate of Members. My colleague Branko Kelemin will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u49	Mr Vice President, Members, Members of Parliament, Honourable Minister, Fellow Member! Our parliamentary group and our political party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, do not oppose the proposed law. With one sentence, we can evaluate this proposal with the following words: everything here is written - already seen a hundred times and heard a thousand times and nothing much new. Everything that is repeated here as a praise is already recorded in various documents, including the economic development strategy, which is not mentioned here at all. What direction and policy this proposal then takes into account and advocates, we ask ourselves. All of this is recorded more or less in the regional development strategy, so similar orientations are also recorded there. This document doesn't state it here. We and our parliamentary group and our political party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, have been warning for years that the power of the economy does the least harm if it does not interfere, at least excessively not in its functioning. For years we have warned that the economy needs only a favourable entrepreneurial environment and nothing much more. Of course, a supportive environment is also meant here. A favourable business environment is: low labour costs, favourable sources of funding if you want, or if you want, interest-free loans, removal of bureaucratic barriers to the opening of a new business or expansion such as permits that should be obtained in one place and at the shortest possible time, there has also been a lot of talk and warning by the European Community that they do not invest in Slovenia mainly because it is time from the idea and desire for an investment until it is implemented. Then it is also necessary to provide suitable land that should be far away, far-reachingly planned and ready for individual activities in the Slovenian space, not to mention municipal equipment of water, sewerage, cleaning facilities, roads, electricity and telecommunications. In short, all these things are a favourable economic environment where the economy can operate efficiently. The greatest weight and advantage should be directed primarily at new companies or to open new jobs, so the emphasis should be only on opening new jobs, but not by shutting down businesses and then opening up the same companies with a new name because of the credit ratings available. This has happened many times now. For years, we have been warning in our party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, that productivity in the Slovenian economy is currently very low, that our added value per unit is far below the European Community. And of course we have done little in this area in the last 10 years of fighting. The mistakes that the existing authorities have caused to the economy in the past will be felt by our employees for a long time. But apparently, the existing authority had much to do with ownership, including unfair property, for more than 10 years, instead of creating the favourable entrepreneurial environment that our economy would need. Hundreds of billions of tolars of tax money were invested in the collapses of companies: iron, TAM, ELAN, mines, PEKO and others. If all the funds that we estimate have been lost for unnecessary purposes, these are the resources of our taxpayers, allocated to technologically modern companies, today would not have more than 100,000 unemployed and the wages of workers would certainly have been at least 50% higher. We have also advocated for several years in the Slovenian Democratic Party the view that micro-enterprises must be provided with reliefs comparable at least in the European Community. This bill, which is before us, foresees reliefs for this segment, but we estimate that, at least at the moment or at this point in time with the amendment of legislation, those proposed should also adopt or legislate or at least indicate in what way some of the benefits we intend to give to these micro-enterprises in the future. The mere inclusion and me thinking that this is the Ministry of the Economy's core task to show us which tax reliefs or which favourable conditions for small and micro-enterprises the Ministry of Economy will seek to use in our very uncoordinated government. For as soon as the Ministry of the Economy tries to put some things into effect, of course, it immediately rules as a whole or the Ministry of Finance essentially rejects the idea. If not elsewhere, surely this proposal for a law is extremely weak and extremely poorly explained in this segment. So when do we hope for legal relief for micro-enterprises? We estimate that in this proposal there are only many words, many nice words and only a few final effects and final benefits. We also wonder why what this law foretells has not already been realized. Now, if we lean just a little on the financial part of this bill, we can find that nothing is actually going to change in this area, and even this explanation is extremely flawed, since nowhere does it indicate how much this new system will be institutionally standing, nor does it provide some substantially different resources or increased resources for the operation of this system, or - it is simply a matter of the budget, as has already been adopted in the budget and no additional funds from this segment. But the worst part is that these same data appear many times in different forms: once in the results of the economy, twice in regional development, the same programmes, the same funds are being doubled and displayed to the Slovenian public, as if we had devoted hundreds and hundreds of billions of indirect and direct incentives to the development of entrepreneurship, economy, regional development, etc. In short, one big deceiving and transparency, so to speak, nothing. We also disagree with some of the solutions proposed by this bill in our parliamentary group and the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is not clear what kind of business environment network this law will redefine as to how many public agencies there will be, what the public administration will have after the new, what it means to grant concessions or public powers, etc. - a whole series of issues not substantiated and certainly from such a document it would be necessary, very urgent, to be presented. We also note that the proposed solutions for many innovative environmental actors are some form of legislation of old monopolies and that such a solution, as proposed by this law, is certainly far, far from acceptable. I'm just going to give one example, and it can happen that all the experts from an agency, but from a company or whatever it's called, go and set up a new company. So they have all the human resources potential that can successfully run a new company or a new institution forward. But you are simply preventing this new institution from working, and you are demanding a whole range of conditions that are actually impossible to achieve. In short, these conditions will need to be substantially changed even when this law receives support. Once again, of course, you are trying to convince the Slovenian public and the Slovenian economy, as if there are not enough quality programmes already today for the realisation of economic initiatives and so on - this does not actually hold. Just look at how many different programs at different levels that are now written for hundreds and thousands of billions. And I am firmly convinced that we will also be spending good programmes - and now we will be writing new programs under this law again and again millions and millions and hundreds of millions of dollars for new programs, and the old ones will probably be put in the dump. It's an unacceptable waste of money. We estimate that this law, as in most cases, is about the law of monopolies, the legalisation of logistics, and in this way we cannot expect efficiency in this area. We are also asking ourselves, and this mentions nothing why, we do not know, but we expect that you probably do not know and you do not want to say and you do not want to make any time dynamics as well - how much money can we expect from this title from international resources or European funds, in what period and how much? You do not give this information in this document. This was extremely interesting and other financial tables would certainly be necessary in this segment. In fact, the extent to which funds are expected from the State budget, from all other funding options, is said to be international resources, contributions from legal and natural persons or from all participants in this system. While there you are talking about the extremely positive dynamics of efficient use of state resources 1:18 and even 1:23. It would be very interesting that this explanation would be more precise and that we could assess whether this is true of what you have done in such a segment or not. I think whether such an explanation is justified or not to that extent. We in our parliamentary group estimate that for the failure of the Slovenian economy, in particular the creation of conditions, favourable conditions of entrepreneurship, the responsibility of the national assembly as a whole, its leadership, which has not taken up so much time in the last eight years or has no concept of how to operate on this segment. There have been no in-depth discussions in this area. However, if there was an initiative, it was rejected by the ruling Members, such as the debate on effective financial discipline in the economy proposed in some past period. Surely there is also a great responsibility here for the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly, which, at least as far as I am a member, has not done, but it has been internal lobbying and ensuring the interests of individuals. But it wasn't about some systemic solutions. Members of the economy bear a great deal of responsibility in setting up poor business environments, and members of political parties with authority. These are members of the LDS and the United List. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u50	Thank you, colleague Kelemina. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, Igor Štemberger has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u51	Respectable. In recent years, as Slovenia's entry into the European Union became closer and closer, the concept of national interest, the competitiveness of Slovenian companies and the fear of hostile foreign takeovers was repeatedly highlighted. On many occasions, it has been asked in itself what will happen to smaller Slovenian companies at the time of entry: will they be able to adapt adequately to the European market, maintain an appropriate market share and thus maintain the company's associated growth and maintain jobs? Fear of taking over foreign companies has been further strengthened in recent years, with the case of the Pivovarna Union and not least with Tobacco in Ljubljana, where we have seen clearly that the objectives of foreign owners are mainly profits and much less economic and social development of Slovenia. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are convinced that the causes of fear should not be attributed only to the latter, as the government could do much more effectively in this area by promoting entrepreneurship, a supportive environment, development, knowledge, innovation, in short, to all known factors that directly affect the higher competitiveness of the economy. Also an appropriate tax policy, allowing easier access to initial capital, creating conditions and infrastructure for start-up companies are measures that the government has not provided to an appropriate extent, and therefore the situation in Slovenian entrepreneurship is as envious as it is. It is expected that entry itself will not have a significant impact on the business of large Slovenian companies, nor on the small and medium-sized sector, since companies that are export-oriented to the European Union market have in fact had to adapt long ago. However, the lack of awareness of the long-term effects of Slovenia's entry into the European Union on entrepreneurship will have a lasting impact. Candidate countries, including Slovenia, had to adapt certain mechanisms and instruments before entry to European legal order and business policy, but we all know that this is not enough. National support mechanisms are also needed, a development-oriented economic policy, which is yet to be detected in Slovenia. Therefore, the tasks to be performed by Slovenia before the final entry into the European Union are related to the design and adaptation of strategic documents in the field of the economy, the promotion of the internationalisation of enterprises and the restructuring of sectors with the greatest structural difficulties. It is illustrative to expect all Slovenian companies to be ready for the European market and new operating conditions. Some, especially in the labour-intensive sectors, will need the country's financial assistance in restructuring, and it is all the more important to create the conditions for the development of new technologically advanced enterprises by means of well-developed business incubators and support environments. By entering the European Union, Slovenia will be entitled to draw funds from the European Structural Funds, which are also intended to promote the development of entrepreneurship, to promote, link and speed up the transfer of knowledge into the economy and to develop new financial instruments. It is therefore the task of the Government to provide support to all those who need it, as well as to provide the necessary budgetary resources for the establishment of coherent regional development. Enterprise knowledge, which needs to be incorporated into the school system, new ideas, adequate infrastructure and capital, is a prerequisite for economic development and thus for companies successfully competing in the European market. According to the opinion of the Young Slovenia Party, the objectives of the bill are aimed at this direction and we will support the proposal at this stage, and in the second reading we also propose amendments, which we believe will make the law even better and, above all, more effective than the one submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you. I would like to inform you that we will continue with the work of this National Assembly today so that once we have finished one point, we will start the next, even if we do not use the time planned for the discussion at a given point. Ten minutes after the end of the last 8th point, after the final discussion on the last 8th point, we will proceed to the vote. It is an arrangement to make the most of today’s time. Thank you for the views of the parliamentary groups. Here comes the debate of Members and Members of Parliament, those who still have time available. Janez Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've got nine minutes left. I'd say I've cheered up this marriage first. I have a technical comment for our rapporteurs and writers. The letters are so small that they're hard to read. If your eyes are too tense, there is a headache and the headache causes bad will and then sent-in colleagues are even more critical of the proposed content of the law. Well, it's just a suggestion to slightly increase the letters in our rapporteur. Today I listened to the performances of fellow Members of Parliament, in which they were very critical. I believe that we must first be correct to the proposer or proposer, the government, and on behalf of the Minister. The law in force, the 13-year-old law on the development of a small economy, has so far been in force. And it says exactly what the novelty of this marriage is. This is an introduction to the law. It lays down the legal substantive basis for the establishment of a public institution to promote the small economy and for the functioning of the public financial fund. That's the essence of the law. This law, colleagues and colleagues do not regulate other elements of the business and resource support environment, as well as instruments to promote the development of entrepreneurship, the creation and development of enterprises. That's what the introduction to the law says. In this case, however, it is necessary to adjust to the applicant, in this case the government. The law contains 23 articles. My personal opinion is that these articles aren't pretty words. I'm sure when the legislature looks at them, there'll be a lot of comments. More from a normative point of view, but not from a substantive point of view. I myself assess that the key Articles 4, 5 and 6 speak of the so-called Programme of Action. If you have taken note of the content of the law and the introduction, point 3 states that this bill also constitutes an important basis for the effective use of the funds of the Structural Funds. This is very important information. However, a single programming document 2004-2006 stated that setting up an environment to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness is a first priority. And go ahead. A programme of measures to promote entrepreneurship, if I am not mistaken for 5 years, to be adopted by the government on a proposal from the competent ministry. And they talk about the content of the action programme and the provision of funds. This is an essential element of this law. The very concept of the following. My opinion is that in this law Professor Dr. Petrinov, as Minister, wrote down her economic political paradigm, which, as Minister, has been advocated all these years in charge of the department. She's been misunderstood many times. But this concept is set out in point 2, knowledge for development, technology centres, clusters, technology networks, strengthening competitiveness and the ability of businesses. And so on. This concept claims that the multiplier effect of public investment is in direct incentives from the State, so it is already 18. One tolar from the state, 18 private investments. In 2003, even 23. Thus, this model was successful, which Dr. Petrinova, in the years of his ministry, often misunderstood, put in place. It is true, and it is said in the introduction that international research has also shown, and this is surprising that Slovenia is lagging behind. It is lagging behind in promoting innovation. It is lagging behind in removing administrative barriers. That was already said. Interestingly, it is lagging behind in the lack of intermediate institutions to support the integration and transfer of knowledge into the economy. In particular, there are difficulties in accessing funding sources. Dr. Sočan recently mentioned this several times, with his colleagues, he wrote an excellent study that tells us that some of the countries that were once behind us in this area were already catching up with us, so they were following us: Czech Republic, Hungary. Estonia has come very close to us, too. In the material, in the introduction, there are some solutions from other countries, such as interesting - when everyone is so terribly critical of the government - Poland, which has 40 million inhabitants, spent $4.5 billion of Slovenian tolars in 2001 in the budget to support the development of entrepreneurship. So the zlotys are converted into Slovenian tolars. As you are aware, in Slovenian cases these numbers are significantly higher. When the law speaks of principles, I would like to highlight two principles which I think are particularly important and which I strongly support. It is clear here that we are focusing on the smallest economic operators. Small and especially micro enterprises are the most dynamic and at the same time the most vulnerable segment of the economy. As the Slovenian parties are increasingly being placed in European parties, I would like to highlight here the direction of the European People's Party, which was adopted a month ago at the congress. But he's talking about the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises. Two thirds of jobs in the private sector are jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the creator of new jobs, so their flexibility and dynamism are a key factor in the health of the national economy. It is therefore important to promote conditions, growth, financing and other matters covered by this law. If someone asked me what the essence of this law is, of course, in addition to having to reply formally, that it is the essence of the law, that it provides a formal basis for a legal and internal basis for the establishment of a public institution to promote a small economy and for the functioning of a public financial fund for the development of a small economy, he would reply that it is one of the basic purposes of creating more jobs for small and medium-sized enterprises. I therefore stress the second principle set out in the introduction, which is consistent with regional development. Here I am returning to a single programme document, which is linked to this and is to build a supportive environment for entrepreneurship, so let it also be a function of coherent regional development. I was paying attention to the address. The title is very ambitious: the proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. Then, in the 23 articles, as I said earlier, the law touches two areas. It establishes a public institution to promote a small economy and, of course, lays down the functioning of a public finance fund for the development of a small economy. Some colleagues have been critical of these solutions, whether it is necessary to have a public financial fund otherwise or to propose other solutions. If we look at it comparatively, we see that some - it is mentioned in the introduction in the law - countries have guarantee banks, some have regional funds. Mexico, which is referred to as a good case, has a centre for the development of entrepreneurship. Poland has some government institutions, etc. Solutions are different. The question I'm asking is, what is the solution to the public financial fund and this institution for a two-million-dollar nation? In the fact that we all know each other and that the principle of objectivity, transparency, honesty is one of the ways that also raises the confidence of citizens and citizens in the institutions of the country. The government has therefore decided to go to this public financial fund. I hope it will, therefore, be the Slovenian entrepreneurship fund, as it is written down. I hope and I want him to be well guided, that trust in him will be appropriate. Some more specific comments. In our view, it would be very important - but now I have taken the floor to my colleague Rokavac - to increase inter-ministerial cooperation: the Ministry of Environment and Space, the tax inspection services, the administrative units, should also cooperate with the competent economic sector. We will propose this in the context of further consideration. I'll support the law myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Comrade Janko Weber, it's a bad minute. Would you like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Master Zoran Granchner.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. I can say that I have cheered up this marriage, although, on the other hand, for the region from which I come personally, it is said from Trbovlje or Zasavje, a little late. The need for this law, which has some legal framework in the Small Economy Development Act, has in fact already been experienced in our region. Look, we were forced to close mines in 2000. At that time, there was essentially a great need for various funds to promote entrepreneurship. Large companies, with a lot of employees, then stopped doing business, people had to start working, but they didn't have anywhere to go. Larger companies were not able to employ and a lot of new small businesses were created, in a law called micro-enterprises. The only ones who rescued these miners and others were some small and medium-sized enterprises, as defined by this law. At that time, we had to deal with some other instruments, which were also introduced in this law, as a result of this law on closure. So I can say that from the experience we have gained in Zasavje, I can assure or say that the solution provided for in this law is appropriate somewhere. A key element of this law is the establishment of a so-called Slovenian Enterprise Fund or Public Institution, which would invest through various instruments in innovative enterprises, especially small, medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises, which are also listed, for certain most difficult technological projects. We can say what could be ideal, what would not be ideal, but we need to look at the real conditions in which we are in Slovenia. The fact is that Slovenia faces the same problems as all others, I could say, Eastern European countries. This is that this risk capital that would be willing to invest in these small businesses is small, but if it is, it is extremely expensive. And other countries that are listed as comparisons in this law are essentially showing the same experience. This has also led to different ways of addressing the problem in different countries. And we cannot now say which solution is better. We have simply decided on what is presented in this law, and I believe that such a solution is appropriate. Slovenia would also like to review these international comparisons by share or percentage of the risk capital in gross domestic product, which is falling far behind for the European Union in this regard. In 2002, we reached only 29.6% of the average. In addition, the problem is that the number of small and micro-enterprises does not arise in the same way that it should be produced. For this reason, as I have said in the beginning, I will be very happy to support this kind of law. I could say that the only obvious thing about marriage is that it came now, from our point of view, for our region a little late. From the perspective of the whole of Slovenia, however, he is certainly welcome. However, I would just like to point out that, in the absence of active economic policy measures, which would also develop the venture capital market, public funds will not work as they should. The public fund cannot and must not replace the full market for venture capital. There is some fear that those who have now been willing to invest in this smaller share will be exposed to risk of being evicted from this market. This is because these funds from the public fund could be cheaper. My, I will say, a purely personal opinion is that with various measures of active economic policy it is only necessary to ensure this. Otherwise, as I have said, I absolutely support such a solution and will also undermine it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you. Dr. Micah Brace has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u57	Thank you very much for your word. Madam Minister, I would, of course, be able to support such a text in principle, but a few questions are just being asked. I don't think the title and content are consistent. The title of the Law Support Environment for Entrepreneurship is a very broad concept and if we look at Article 1 then somehow stick to the title, because you are talking about organisation, measures of the country etc., but when we come to the goals of the law, of course it is less clear what kind of support environment this should be or this concept narrows down to some financial and organisational issues. That is why I think it is good that, I have no doubt, this law will go to a second reading, a second reading to consider further how to harmonise the title and content. I also read this law with great interest and expected to find a definition of a favourable business environment. What is it that needs to be created in order for entrepreneurship to flourish? But when I read the law to the end, I see that, in fact, some of the institutions that still exist have received either the same functions or another name. I have found nothing new in this, but not so new, that I would therefore feel that this law would encourage entrepreneurship. I also mean, this has already been mentioned, by the way, that the technical law is inadequately prepared. There's a whole series of mistakes in there, a series of articles. But you'll fix this for a second treatment. I would expect that, in explanation, this mentions that there are grounds in this law or perhaps even a new chapter on how to remove these administrative obstacles, or at least, to eliminate the big word, to mitigate them. For example, the change you caused to the Company Act, Article 4, was an extremely important change that opened up the space, at the same time reducing the number of employees in administrative units for, I don't know, 250 persons who were then deployed elsewhere. This was, for example, such an important move that you made and that had a great effect. I'm afraid that won't be the case. When you mention the anti-birocratic program in here somewhere, there's no connection to what else to do so that these small or micro, small and medium-sized people have a slightly easier entrepreneurial life when I'm talking about these administrative obstacles. My question is whether there is anything possible to do with this law, but that when we talk about the law on administrative procedure, the law on the construction of buildings, the law on companies and probably some other law, we can find ways of facilitating the lives of entrepreneurs. Taxes are an important component of entrepreneurship. How to develop competitiveness, how to increase employment if we do nothing in this tax area. I know this law is not tax law. But since the title is "supportive environment", one would think that one of the important elements of the support environment is money. And there is much talk about it in this law about financial issues. I am aware that in one marriage there is no way to do anything. But then this means, and I give it to those colleagues who have mentioned this today that they should have on the table changes to all those laws that are linked to this and represent a comprehensive support environment. What can be done in this case? If the Minister is prepared to say something about this, I would be very grateful. The law mentions an innovative environment. This is where the records of the bodies of the innovative environment are introduced. I find this very problematic, because innovation is not something that arises institutionally, but they do appear in a person who does a lot of work, either as an individual or as part of a team. This article reminds me somewhat of the practice of higher education, they have internationally comparable references, why someone who is a good innovator at home should not be taken into account, for example, when we know that some of the international references, if I am talking about higher education now, are very important, but they do not really know how much harder it is, but sometimes someone who has done something at home is significantly more important. So I'm trying to relativize a little bit and I'm calling on you to think about maybe mitigating these criteria. I also do not know why it should become a rule at least two years before filing an application for registration. If you have anything to say, you've got to say. This is then noted in the third paragraph, where you talk about the way in which the records are kept and the content of the records and the additional conditions for the management of individual services. Either way, you're going to check or it's going to check, I don't know where, and I wouldn't go any further to restrict someone who might have launched some highly innovative approach. Here I have a concrete example of one of the Slovenian gazelles that would not have received anything under these criteria, but today it is one of the most important information companies. I can misinterpret this Article 9 but I think because Article 10 speaks of the financing of services, that it is also related to money, so I would suggest that you might ease these administrative conditions. I have another question, on page 12, in the introductory part of the text, is the relationship between basic capital and the guarantee potential. Here is the talk that in most of the countries listed here, the ratio between fixed capital and guarantee capital is reversed as in Slovenia. Of course, I don't understand why this is happening right now, but I think there are valid reasons, but somehow I didn't find any further, so I'd like to ask for an explanation. I would also say that I, as an observer in the European Parliament, participate in this group. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] So the group that also deals with these small and medium-sized enterprises, I'm just wondering, what does this further split into micro? [[...]] I read the explanation, but I don't know what the consequences of these divisions are. Surely, some division causes you to have some right and a little more responsibility. In that sense, it's probably an explanation. But I'm more wondering how meaningful this division is to micro. Or we could just leave that kid behind and start with those, I don't know, 470 million or whatever, as I say. I don't know. I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you, Dr. Brace. The text is given to Irma Pavlinič Krebs for her discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, Fellow Member, Members. I cannot argue with the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which has many times been concerned about the welfare of Slovenian citizens and citizens in the debates. Mr Kelemina said that it was unnecessary and too much money being scattered into our young, new country, when they helped save the great industrial giants. Your Honor! The country, even though young, has its own history. This history was socialistic. The economy was socialist. Moderns were large industrial giants, who, of course, employed many citizens and citizens from certain areas in the Slovenian area. It is more than incorrect to report to the State that the restructuring projects, which were financially supported, which carried an expensive social component within them during that period were the spread of money. And with this law before us today, we cannot say that financial support, state aid to firms in difficulty, is not also the necessary instrument of this country, which is trying to maintain healthy cores in these former industrial giants and prepare them to compete as best possible in the new European situation. Of course, this law must have helped small and medium-sized enterprises to offer new jobs in these environments, but it is certainly welcome and say that this issue should certainly be supported by all parliamentary groups in this Parliament. Of course, the encouraging support environment for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is not, in my opinion, just this segment regulated by the Ministry in this regulation. Surely the second emergency segment, which I think will immediately follow, will remove administrative obstacles that are within the legislative or initial competences of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment and Space and so on. This is what would be the right step in parallel with these instruments. Finally, it is an encouraging environment, which we can also call what Mr Kelemina said is in some other regulations, and we can very briefly call them zoning zones, which, through coherent regional development, are intended as a common objective for the operators of both local communities of the economy in the area, with great support, including for the countries involved in these projects and, lastly, the structural funds of the European Union. These are all parallel measures which, of course, we can call a supportive environment a coherent regional development. And what is it that I see that this marriage is important in addition to all the things that entrepreneurs certainly expect? The key problems that entrepreneurs already face when we contact them and discuss things to improve them are access to information. We know that we are living in an age of information and that if we do not actually put them in an accessible environment, they remain their own purpose. Access to information and services, to knowledge that is generated in one way or another, but does not come where they need it most and most importantly, according to my assessment of this regulation, is a source of funding. The solutions provided by this law are added to the former regulation. They are the result of learning, and they are some examples of best practices in the Member States of the European Union. And they will certainly enable the development of new services according to the needs of businesses and the involvement of the entrepreneurial sector itself in the implementation of these services. Here I understand that added value. It is the fact that the companies themselves that will feel capable will be able to obtain public authority without the State being a direct centre to produce certain projects. This proved to be less successful. It is important that those who, as entrepreneurs themselves, as a small enterprise, feel able to generate, create projects, innovations and so on, are empowered to do so on behalf of the State and in this part also financially support the creation of such projects. This will result in greater efficiency and quality of service delivery. It is necessary to know that this relationship, which has now been known, is that the institution has spent on its work compared to the implementation of the programme, that the ratio of resources spent 1:3 has not been in such a way as to order the Ministry to continue to encourage it, but I think that this solution proposed is much better so that this opportunity is given to the other qualified institution. The most important part, of course, is the new basis for the operation and strengthening of the role of the public fund for the small economy. This is the entrepreneurship fund of Slovenia. Access to funding sources is recognised by the eyes of entrepreneurs as a key obstacle to the more successful development of the small economy segment. The fund based on the current law can only carry out risk-free forms of funding. It was usually the practice of subsidising interest rates. That wasn't enough for entrepreneurs. In particular, the market needs are for other financial instruments, in particular the provision of initial and risk capital. And with the new law, I think that the public fund will also be able to provide these forms and take advantage of the possibility of obtaining new quality resources, in particular from the European Union. And in the past days, congratulations, Madam Minister, with your help, the Fund has already signed the first contract, where it is with the European Investment Fund to create a guarantee scheme, which means in the next two years 2.5 billion tolars of favourable loans with insurance for small businesses through nine business banks in Slovenia. And if this is not what the environment has learned today as a matter of urgency and has also learned this in the countries we join, I think it is worth saying hello to. However, I would really like to see these parallel measures, which are not in this regulation, in particular the removal of bureaucratic requirements, which are known as those that no longer serve their objectives, which are more difficult, more difficult conditions than those that companies in the Member States of the European Union have received in those narrow national economies to prepare this regulation as soon as possible. Then I think this package of entrepreneurship promotion will be rounded up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u60	Jože Tanko has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, and thank you all very much! I must say that this problem of a supportive environment for entrepreneurship has been very different in various years. In fact, any form of organization, whether within the Ministry or as part of the Ministry, has proposed and has easily implemented some of its solutions, thereby in some way undermining or seriously violating the concept of the predecessor he had previously set up. There have been many initiatives, many initiatives, in this area of creating a supportive environment. Many were included in the local community itself. This led to the establishment of local initiatives and later turned into development agencies, and this was then upgraded with regional development agencies, depending on where it was. I must say that, for all these forms, the state has also provided funds for a certain period of time, encouraged the creation of these institutions, and then at some point the thing is completely dead, and that's what's left of the founders' burdens, that's in this part of the local community. Further, it must be said that various clusters have also been created, in some ways unshaped cooperation and technological development parks. In short, many of these conceptual forms have been so far. This somehow shows us that much has been done mainly in this transformation, modification, search, including the concept, renaming, processing of these old content, and much less success in this field of implementation, although there has been local, regional and entrepreneurial efforts to re-adapt it to new provisions. Nor were these effects particularly significant, as many forerunners have warned. The lagging behind of Slovenia in this area is not even strange, because neither of the forms, nor any of the concepts, has ended and led to the place, but somewhere in the middle of the way things have changed and changed. In some ways, however, I am surprised that you have written in your explanation of the law that you will continue to allow more transparent use of resources for development policy from now on. This somehow leads me to believe that the consumption so far has not been sufficiently transparent, that irregularities and abuses have taken place. However, there is nothing concrete about this and there are no specific measures in this regard. It also seems to me that the legislation we adopt does not contribute to the balanced development of Slovenia. These laws do not provide for any specific measures to open plants in threatened or developing areas. I also miss the synchronisation of measures and laws, and this would be the task of a government that would be more systematic and more comprehensive in the field. This law will also likely be one of those that will allow the main amount of funds to be channelled into developmental and successful areas. I think it would be necessary to provide more selective approaches to sort of divide this policy into that part that relates to the developmental success and to those areas that are less promising, less successful. Only if we take a selective approach to the creation of entrepreneurial initiatives will we keep these areas populated and alive. Otherwise, this exodus, the concentration in companies, large and small, will be happening to us in a way similar to that of now. It is said that everything migrates to the highway cross and into larger, not local, but regional centres and causes rural poverty as well as rural dying. In fact, this law has a flaw that is very much left to the government, under the law. This means that the law is extremely open, that it is more or less undefined and allows the government to make opposite adjustments. The second flaw in this law is that the effects of this mandate will no longer be possible [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to check, but all these things recorded in the explanatory notes shall be transmitted within the next mandate period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u62	Thank you. Mag. Blaze Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you. Of course, it is necessary to be careful in this law that we do not tear down with one hand what we are building with the other hand. This law is aimed at promoting, supporting entrepreneurship and, of course, it is very important that, of course, the orientation of other regulations and practices in our environment. We're having some problems here. If the director of the bishop's Hat says that he can have a revised lift every six months, and his competitor, a partner in Belgium, every two years, he said so to me, then, of course, the whole chapter that he could be told is opened, whether in some areas we are not more papal than the pope. As regards regulations in the field of labour law, legislation in the field of labour protection, tax rules and procedures and other matters which also shape the quality of the environment in which businesses operate. This danger is, of course, as much as smaller subjects. Here we have heard many times, and I agree that this micro and small segment should be highlighted separately. I believe that it is normal for these micro-entities to highlight, especially in small enterprises, that entrepreneurs doing business in this way are primarily engaged in the content of the business. And such economic operators do not tolerate a very high level of standardisation. This problem, then more or less, disappears in medium-sized entities, although it is easy to do so, but is critical in these small entities. Since it's time, I'd settle for it. Of course, efforts will have to be made by the government to guide legislation and regulations in other areas in the same direction as this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thank you. I now give my word to the Minister, Dr. Tei Petrin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I thank you for your comments, for your opinion, which we will examine and take into account all that could further improve this bill. Before giving some warning, for it is impossible for me to answer everything at the time at my disposal, I don’t think that was even expected. I would like to emphasise the following, as many debaters have pointed out. Entrepreneurship intervenes in such a way as to say or by laws, and the rules of all departments interfere with the design of an entrepreneurial environment. This law is one of the laws. And according to our legislation, as you know, it is a matter of substantive laws, and in a substantive law, it essentially regulates areas related to the branch that the law proposes. This proposal, which is here, is really limited to the design of this support environment. It has been said that by law we cannot create an entrepreneurial spirit in any country, not in our own. However, we can define the role of the country, as you yourself have pointed out, that action in areas where it can act or create such an environment that will help the entrepreneurial spirit actually begin to develop, create and reach the summer. These issues are not only addressed by Slovenia, not only by the candidate countries. I am now very involved in the economic commission in the European Union through the Competitiveness Council. And I tell you, the questions that we are asking here today are faced by Germany, Great Britain, England and so on. Maybe in some cases we're really behind. Where we are behind, we also wanted to remove this backlog with this law, as I said in the introduction. The preparation of the law with us, as you know, takes a long time due to different coordinations and the like. This is no longer a proposal from our ministry that would have been made 14 days ago or something like that. We have dealt with these issues systematically since 2000; we have been preparing proposals, including relevant resources, which, of course, have a mandate over legislation which, of course, has a significant impact on the creation of this entrepreneurial climate in our economy. When we talk about an innovative environment, the word may be somewhat unacceptable for some, but it is a phrase that is also used elsewhere. It is these institutions that enable entrepreneurship to develop much faster and better. It is true that there is no question of new institutions here in our law. It has been said whether, in the past, when we stress the transparency and efficiency of these institutions, such as parks, technology parks and centres of excellence that we do not yet have today, we are also slowly developing that in the past the support has been untransparent. It is important to know that the system of granting state aid has also changed over time. By harmonising our system of granting state aid, we have also come up with the requirement that we clearly define what State aid we are offering to an individual entrepreneur, and what are the funds we are earmarking for the functioning of those institutions that are helping these entrepreneurs to make their entrepreneurial projects as real as possible in order to obtain all the information they need for their success and all that knowledge. This is the first part when we are talking about, of course, the need to put this system into effect here, and we are also enforcing it by this law, and this, of course, means additional transparency in relation to the past way, which was, of course, financed under State aid. And it was an established system. Legally enforced. For a change, as we say, we have to make a change here too. The other thing I would like to stress is when we talk about harmony, because there have been a lot of questions raised around the fund. It is a matter of transforming the existing fund into an entrepreneurial fund. And precisely in order to start developing those instruments that are currently in high demand. All these instruments are listed, I think in Articles 16 or 17 and in fact help to close this gap in this area. Or they will. Here I have to say that this fund, warned that it is necessary to ensure that the operation of this fund is controlled, because in Slovenia we all know and, similarly, rightly, interlocutors, I must say that this fund is essentially an intermediate body that essentially operates with financial institutions that have all the knowledge that is necessary to support certain projects. That is why the signing of the guarantee scheme contract also took place until the signing of ten Slovenian banks, which will be included in the guarantee scheme. This gap between the dedicated capital of the current fund and the guarantee potential that this fund currently had, compared to other countries, is the fact that we did not have this guarantee potential developed and, in part, the result of the demand from entrepreneurs, small, medium and large, by a given instrument. That is why we also keep it, because the research has shown that there is still sufficient demand, and this is primarily about subsidising the interest rate, so there is still a lot of demand not to put an end to something that works or would underpin it, to enrich it with all these other instruments that were previously discussed. I also have to say that the analysis was done. The comment was either what this analysis is like or what an analysis of the effectiveness of interest rate subsidisation would be like. We have, of course, made this analysis just so that we can decide whether or not to decide if this instrument remains the same. It is published on the website or website of the Ministry of Economy and Fund. Then administrative obstacles. I agree, it's a cancer wound, wherever, in any environment, domestic or foreign, we talk. I think that in this area, although we cannot be satisfied, I agree, we have only taken important steps. The international comparison also shows that Slovenia no longer has administrative barriers to this issue, at least when registering companies and entering new companies on its tail as it was, or between countries in the last place. But we've moved on. Certain administrative obstacles have also been removed by the law you have confirmed here, namely the amendment of the craftsmen's law. Many obstacles have been removed in this area and will undoubtedly have a positive impact. When you adopt the law and we realize that, I know, all of us, it doesn't mean that there's gonna be a result in the night. These are processes that, of course, are exposed and, once launched, of course, move on. With regard to administrative obstacles, I must say that we are continuing to work in this area, establishing a special group, an inter-ministerial group. It is also this afternoon that we have a meeting and we are working in the sense that, finally, the so-called project, which you have become familiar with, will be successfully implemented, not only in the field of SPs, but also in the field of working organisations. As far as public powers are concerned, I must say that, even in our interest, the control over the allocation and, of course, the exercise of public powers is of course very effective. Why public authority? Because some of you have also warned or supported this decision, because it means only in some sense bringing competition into the field of already established institutions. For the most part, there was one institution here and, with public powers, we do not essentially exclude anyone, nor local entrepreneurial centres, nor crafts and chambers of commerce. No, we are not introducing new institutions, but we are giving these institutions, which have not been involved in providing services to entrepreneurs today, the opportunity to prove that they can do better, that, of course, market, as has been exposed, not administratively, this is also offered to a group of these entrepreneurs. I think that this is actually a positive, very positive element, but it will certainly have to be consistent around this control. Perhaps even in Article 9 these criteria are a little harshly written, we will look at this again, but I think you probably agree with us that all those criteria that will be recorded in Article 9 will meet some international standards in this area. The second thing that seemed important to me, which I wrote down from the outset, is also the issue of this coherent regional development. This is the principle of the law and, thank you, it has been pointed out, for some part, that this is already covered in this law and that in fact we are committed to evenly covering this supportive environment of entrepreneurs anywhere in Slovenia. These public powers will also, to a large extent, make it possible and, to some extent, cheaper. Today, for example, if we can give public authority to the local business centre past the PCMG, if you allow this reduction, and of course the costs are clearly lower and transparency can also be increased. As for subsidisation, interest rates, that's what I said. Then it's a matter of other laws. I agree that this would, of course, be optimal, so that we can bring together a whole package of these laws that affect the area of entrepreneurship, or at least in the area where changes are most needed. Some of these proposals are already on the list at the current state council, some of them have already been adopted, which have actually improved this entrepreneurial environment, let it be the construction law, then the taxes - they come and so on. As far as taxes are concerned, we had in our bill, although it concerns only the support environment, somehow we tried to bring the issue of tax relief through the back door. I think, as I have said before, in view of the objectives of our legislation or the legislative system, every area law governs this area. As far as taxes are concerned, I think also from the point of view of the conversations I have with others in other countries, they are very careful that this issue would not be diversified between different laws, but would be in one basic law, that it is indeed a review of what tax reliefs we offer. We used to, I remember, talk to entrepreneurs, some knew what tax reliefs were under different laws, and others did not have this review. Of course, we must ensure that these two laws, which come into consideration, also adequately address this area. We have made these proposals, and we expect them to be taken into account, because there is still a debate in this area. We have also proposed improving this business, facilitating business for micro and small businesses and we are already preparing changes in the GDD and we expect, I think we have even a table, I do not have time stamps here before me, so that the point comes to Parliament in a short time, where we will also very clearly indicate the link between this law and the changes we make there to facilitate the business of small and micro enterprises. Why all of a sudden split into micro-small enterprises and medium-sized enterprises. It is precisely because, if we have a population of small and medium-sized enterprises, it can often happen, or only a population of small enterprises, that how many have been in these aids and, for example, when we are talking about budgetary resources, initiatives and similar involvement of individual companies in different sizes. That is why they place a great deal of emphasis on the importance of micro and small businesses, micro 1-9 and this separation, so that you can control yourself, control and correct those funds in these micro and small enterprises. As far as the cost of operating the system is concerned. If we go to the fund. We are not establishing any institutions, but we are exposing the conditions for the effective functioning of these institutions for the purpose of developing entrepreneurship in our country, so that entrepreneurs, entrepreneurship, can develop as effectively as possible. Let's take the case. Today, the fund has ten billion of this purposeful assets. Each year, it is tendering for three billion tolars, which are intended only for small and medium-sized enterprises. It has been proven from 1996 until last year, I think, on the basis of these incentives for 500 new jobs. It also supported small innovative companies, but according to the instruments that this fund had, this support was small for these new and risky projects because it simply did not have a legal basis, a legal basis. This fund manages 12 people, costs of operation of the Fund are only 120 million. I think that's extremely effective. And nothing from the budget, funding its operations, these 12 employees solely on the basis of its own activity. With regard to tax relief, I was told if you would answer, I think I did. We have here, as we say, made many suggestions. What it is will also be taken into account in this new bill. It was important for me to say here, because it has been said that this law, which is loose, leaves many areas to the under-laws, to the government. I have to say, if you go through the law in detail, it's only three regulations under the law. I would not agree with this claim that the law has already very strongly defined the basic elements and objectives of this law and the content, while it is only three sub-laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thank you very much. There's nine minutes left. Who else would like to debate in this time frame? Mag. A petty man and colleague Rokavec, five minutes later, because I don't see any other wishes. Please. Mag. It's a trifle. Four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Four and a half minutes, all right. I think I'll be done early. See, for the goals, respected representatives of the government or respected Minister, you could quickly unify and declare these goals or announce them for four years, but the difference is in reality, as it was established during these three years when you rule. Let me tell you: reducing self-employed, reducing the employment of small businesses and more unemployed. Not the official statistics we have erased and there are about 12,000 deleted inside. This needs to be summed up, and in this sense there is also an increase. So objectives, raising entrepreneurial culture, developing an innovation environment, availability of access to entrepreneurial environments, improving access to information, strengthening the competitiveness of businesses, strengthening the role of development I do not know which instruments. Will this law accomplish this? One thing in there is operational. This is the establishment of the fund, everything else is at the level of the declaration. What we've been declaring for three years. What should we be missing in these three years and still missing? In fundamental laws to change this practice. And what are those fundamental laws? This is the case with banks, with regard to the business of the securities market, with regard to the flexibility of the labour market - this is the labour law - what you want to enforce is not the subject of this law, but is the subject of other laws. Then it's an anti-biocratic program. Funds are provided for the implementation of the Anti-Birocratic Programme. Please state how much savings there will be, but not how much it will encourage. There's an item in there that you can provide for an anti-biocratic program. That's why I'm warning you. We already have some institutions, these artists, but these are barren. Now it's just a question of how to make them more successful. I don't know what's gonna happen to PCMG. Wouldn't this institution be improved if you weren't satisfied with it? And you're going to liquidate it? I don't know. Wouldn't that be better? When we asked one visit about how the technology park actually works, one of the very interesting ones, I will not tell you where it is, or you will start to discuss it, we asked them what the role of the country is, what state aid does it give for that technology park, where there are 300 companies in five square kilometres, and there are two universities in it, and all the other ones are pushing for this to work well. And they asked us fatly, "What, or the country?" Nothing. This came from this innovative environment. Of course, the local community made it available to do so in that "becirque" under favourable conditions. That's for sure. But the remaining infrastructure or legal infrastructure has made this possible. Of course, we need some mechanisms to implement these state aids, or we need to draw on them and therefore we need this fund. Even if it were to come into the budget fund, only the budget fund could be allocated and this matter would be perfectly good. Of course, our citizens are wondering what we're going to get. Probably some new institution that will increase these interfaces and intermediaries. These interfaces and intermediaries, if any, should be based on the initiative of the market environment. And then the state goes in and maybe it's funding something. Are you nodding or sneezing? Well, this fund, we know who's setting it up and how it's made. That's the difference. Thinking. The other, of course, is monopolistic companies and impreciseness. This needs to be done. And once this is resolved, it will be an encouraging innovative environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thank you. And a French Rocksmith, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. I believe that it is probably also the right time for this law, but not only because it is written in this law, but also because it encourages the competent ministries to think about what is necessary in the law, this is what colleague Kavčič said that on some solutions we are significantly more papal than the pope himself. These solutions are very large in our legislation. Now I don't know why we overstepped in some of the solutions, both in the labour law and in the law on safety and health at work and so on and so forth, and here we could still be listed over time and over. But probably just what the predecessor said before me, this law should also raise the question of what is necessary in other legislation, because if we do not change it, it will not have the effect of a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. That is actually true what has already been said. In recent times, there has been a trend in the decline of small businesses, a trend in self-employment and so on. Right here, probably one of those market niches in Slovenia. I could only touch Article 8, because here I believe that something needs to be said mainly in the tasks and programmes if we are in this law to create an entrepreneurial environment. I think it's a shame that there's actually no defined option here, we know that searching and acquiring and communally equipping trade-industry zones is more in the domain of local communities. But this is the prerequisite where someone who wants to start creating something can also offer him something from the local community or anyone else. I believe that at point 8 he also has his own place in the tasks and programmes. Of course, it is not direct that what the state will do centrally, but in cooperation with local communities. However, the second issue is services to support entrepreneurs in the implementation of counselling procedures and the preparation of documentation for reporting companies to domestic and foreign public tenders. Many times I have spoken with entrepreneurs who have said, of course, I would have applied for this, but because in fact the requirements that individual calls, whether domestic or foreign, are prescribed are almost impossible for each individual entrepreneur to actually obtain them. Therefore, I think it would also be useful to encourage those institutions, those entrepreneurs who would actually offer this service to others. And I believe that even when we join the European Union, where we will be, above all, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] depends on the possibility and flexibility of using these resources in order to provide possible solutions to this end as well. [[...]] So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u70	Thank you. This concludes the general debate on the bill. On the proposal of the law that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This will be ten minutes after the end of the 8th point or the last point on today's agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm moving to the next point, this is NA 2. On the other hand, the proposal for a law on cooperation between the Assembly of States and the Government in matters of the European Union has been tabled. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Anton Anderlic. I give the floor to the introductory or supplementary explanation of the bill to Mr Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u71	Your Honor! It will be almost a year after the National Assembly has announced a change to the Constitution and added 3a. Article, which was also the basis for the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. This Article sets out the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly and must be adopted by the State Assembly by a two-thirds majority, in order, however, to ensure that it follows both the constitutional provisions and the strong will of the people in the referendum to transfer to the Government, by accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, the State Assembly in some way, to the Government, part of the functions that it has had under the current conditions itself. It is therefore part of legislative decision-making and it is that, through this way of action, the National Assembly, by amending the Constitution and by means of an accession treaty, has transferred part of its functions to the European Union body. The marriage was prepared for a long time. They were different opinions. Whether to take a position where we would firmly commit the government and thereby in some way make it impossible for the government to act more flexibly in a weekly, day-to-day manner and when it comes to decision-making in Brussels, to a second model, the former is conditionally called Danish, the latter Finnish, when the government and the Parliament are working together in a way that Parliament gives its opinion, forms its views that they are not so binding that, in the context of the needs that will arise daily, it would not be possible to change these views on its own and then, later, of course, when such an amended one was established, later explain them in the National Assembly. I believe that in this too this design of positions would be more flexible and more general, to say so, but not specifically on a particular subject. At the second-reading meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, following the first hearing of the meeting of the assembly, where the law was given an appropriate majority, it could say quite a large majority, then the Committee amended some of the provisions. Especially when it comes to naming individual organs. The bodies have been replaced by the term "institutions", since both the European Council and the Council of the European Union are an institution where, in fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - as well as all governments - adopts the country's views or represents and represents the Republic of Slovenia. We have also replaced the word association of the 'establishment treaties of the European Union', which is too general, with the term 'contracts on which the European Union is founded'. In order to ensure the representation of the protection of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, it was also necessary to lay down procedures for informing the national assembly and procedures for establishing positions. We have thus added a new second paragraph, which obliges the National Assembly to take account of the European Council and the EU Council's timetable. In cases where, for certain reasons, the National Assembly does not define itself until the proposal for a government position, it is considered that it agrees with this proposal of a government position. For the sake of the greater public, we have also set out the government's obligation to report before the EU Council and at ministerial level before Slovenia enters the EU. The amended bill is therefore in line with the comments of the legislative and legal service. The comments of the Government and the European Affairs Commission in Parliament are taken into account to a greater extent. I believe that it is perfectly well prepared with regard to the discussions in the first reading, so I propose that we also confirm this by accepting it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you for this supplementary explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body and I ask for a presentation of the report to be submitted by colleague Majda Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the House of Respect! At its 47th regular meeting on 12.02.2004, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union submitted to the national assembly by the group of Members with the first signed by Anton Anderlic. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It was presented by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group and the European Affairs Commission as an interested working body. The debate took place in a way typical of regulating such relations. The National Assembly wanted as much government oversight as possible, and the government tried to get out of that embrace. Thus, the Government's representative came from the active role of the Government in enforcing the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and from its constitutional and legal position and operation. In particular, he stressed the importance of establishing a mechanism for cases where the national assembly, for certain reasons, does not define a proposal for a government position. He further committed himself to the solution that the meetings of the working bodies of the national assembly would be closed to the public because of the specific nature of the European Union, and also proposed that the National Assembly should not take any views on the amendments to the Treaties on which the Union is founded, but should only discuss them. The Council of State would also like its piece of cooperation, and the representative stressed that the Council of State has a clear and undisputed limit of its powers, a certain impact on the legislative functioning of the National Assembly. He highlighted in particular Article 6 of the bill that the competent working bodies of the national assembly also take into account the opinions of the State Council or its working bodies when dealing with European matters. In doing so, the members of the Committee felt that the position of the Council of State with its entry into the European Union was not changing and that it would be able to continue to give opinions on all matters to be dealt with by the National Assembly. The President of the European Affairs Commission stressed that the content or timing of the legislative process in the institutions of the European Union will sometimes not require or time to deal with the matter first, and then the labour force responsible for European affairs. In this case, he proposed supplementing Article 6 of the draft law by dealing with European work force and the working body responsible for foreign policy, as a rule, with European matters on the basis of the opinions of the working bodies. In the ensuing debate, the members of the Committee paid particular attention to the regulation of the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government with regard to the adoption of legal acts and decisions within the European Union and stressed the important appropriate regulation of the internal aspect of this external relationship by holding the Government responsible for the State's policy and for the decisions taken in the European Union. Therefore, as a key issue, they highlighted the arrangements for the role and position of the National Assembly vis-à-vis the Government as an equivalent body in shaping the positions of the Republic of Slovenia on those European matters which would otherwise fall within its competence. In doing so, the government should make a choice of matters and also take political responsibility for them. It is important, however, that the Government, in view of its assessment of the political importance of certain European matters, may also propose its treatment for the purpose of obtaining the views of the National Assembly to the proposal for the views of the Republic of Slovenia. The members of the Committee did not agree with the opinion of the Government, which was summarised in the amendment to Article 2, and highlighted in particular the requirement to maintain the role of the parent labour bodies in relation to both labour bodies responsible for European affairs and foreign affairs. The Committee adopted amendments to Article 8 tabled by the European Affairs Commission and then amendments [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Article 5 has not been adopted by some amendments to the European Affairs Commission, the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, and some amendments have become irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I welcome the representatives of the government who have joined this agenda item, but have not submitted the words to the opening explanation, but later to the debate on the amendments. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 33rd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we will move on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled in each article. You have a review of the amendments of 23.2. and the amendment is contained in the amendment review. This is why we are moving on to the debate on Article 3 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u75	In our Group of Members, we believe that the second paragraph of Article 3 is in fact unnecessary, because the position of the Government is set out in the Constitution and it is therefore unnecessary to mention again the situation of the Government in this Act. This is defined by the Constitution and by the laws. This is clear by the Constitution and we therefore consider that there is an over-second paragraph and we can adopt this law without this second paragraph.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I would add only that, in fact, Article 3 as it is written is unclear. The first paragraph of Article 3 states that in the EU, the government represents and represents the Republic of Slovenia and applies its positions in the EU institutions. So the views of the Republic of Slovenia. The highest authority of the Republic of Slovenia is and will remain a national assembly. Then the second paragraph says that in the EU case the government is independent, it is said that these two paragraphs are, in my opinion, in fact in direct contradiction. One says that he represents the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, says what, as my predecessor, Comrade Drobnič, said, is written in our constitution and in our laws, and then, regardless of that, the second paragraph says that the government is independent in these matters. From this point of view it would actually be good, not only that it is unnecessary, but it would be good for the second paragraph of Article 3 to be deleted, since otherwise it would be in practice to have a different understanding of Article 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on Article 3? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and the amendment to Article 3. I turn to Article 4 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, the LDS Group of Members, the United List of Members, the SLS, the DeSUS, the NSI, the SMS and the two amendments of the Slovenian National Party Group of Members and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members. Join the debate on this Article in a row. Please, who wants a word? Mrs. Majda Potrata, Miran Potč, Janez Podobnik, Petty Officer. Mrs. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am proposing to the First Amendment, which is the New Slovenia Group of Members, in fact, I apologize for my comment only now, because this comment should already address itself at the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, but allow me to propose that in the language edition of the whole law, and in particular in Article 2, which is now not discussed, do or remedy a linguistic flaw. The law we are talking about is contained in the title, 'in matters of the European Union', and later in Article 2, it states that it will be hereinafter referred to as 'EU matters'. From a linguistic point of view, this is an unacceptable formulation. Even when the short name for the European Union is used, it is said that the EU should be written "EU affairs" like the EU institutions and something else, the EU world or something else, when we make a statement, we should see how the matter should be written. As I say, once again, I apologize for reacting only now as a lecturer and not as a member of the National Assembly, but I think that the possibilities for this language text exist throughout the entire legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you. Steady Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I have already held a meeting of my mother's working body, although I have felt that most of the debate and most amendments are more editorial than substantive, although I am not saying that some editorials are not materially relevant later, so I will, among the amendments tabled under Article 4, in particular, support the amendment tabled together by four members of the group. I would like to make a statement on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I was the one who proposed both the wording and the new article 11a, which had not been adopted, and I am not disturbed by the content that it is subsequently attached to Article 4. However, I believe that the National Assembly could consider adopting this proposal. We all know that we are seeing differently and that we are more dissatisfied than we are with regulating relations between the National Assembly and the Council of State. However, the constitutional position of the Council of State has its function as regards the legislative role of the National Assembly and has the right and the right to participate in the decision-making procedures of the State Council. This law governs those matters which are the legislative function of the National Assembly, but will no longer be carried out by the National Assembly in the future, because the content of the decision in the European Union is becoming the subject of the decision-making process, and the Government is directly involved in these decisions, but as regulated by this law, on the basis of the maximum cooperation and the clearest possible positions that the Government should set up for its operation by the National Assembly. I believe that it is a legislative function that it would be right to find appropriate solutions in this matter also for the State Council. We were finally reminded of this in his writings by Mr Franci Grad. As I do not think it would be useful in many of the articles to write, when, in what case, under what conditions, I think it would be useful to have this cooperation of the State Council in the decision-making process of the EU National Assembly, to point out at least by saying in a specific article or paragraph that it will be governed by the rules of procedure of the State Assembly. I agree that the rules of procedure of the National Assembly can be regulated even without such a delivery, that is undoubtedly true, but I am returning to the beginning, given that we are always giving a clear view of each other, that there are many issues to be asked here, so it seems to me that such an addition to the law would do no harm, perhaps help to further regulate these relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u82	John Sponik has a word. Then it's mag. The little thing and Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendment under item 2, because we have also followed the positions of the legislative and legal service, is a more editorial nature. With regard to the amendment, which is now referred to by my colleague Potrč, which is that the participation of the Council of State in forming the positions of the national assembly in the EU is governed by the rules of the national assembly, we have thought first of all to write it in the form of Article 11a or Article 11 of the new Article, and then it has been shown that it is also more relevant to this article, since Article 11 regulates the plenary session of the national assembly. The relationship between the National Assembly and the Council of State was now discussed by Comrade Potrč. I agree in principle with his debate. A number of communications on this issue have been established, not only in this law, but also in some others. If you will remember when we changed the Constitution, it was mentioned in the first place, whether the Council of State would also mention the change in the Constitution. Then we didn't write it down as a change of constitution. The current solution to record that the Rules of Procedure regulate this relationship would, in our view, be a healthy compromise, but in some ways they would give the necessary status to the State Council, which is a constitutional category. If the two-thirds majority of Members present and Members present for such a solution, I am confident that this will work well for the relations between the National Assembly, the Council of State and the Government, on the other hand, when we go into a change of rules of procedure, I propose that we do so, those first changes, even in this mandate. I am sure that we will also find a way to even change the rules of procedure of such a relationship in such a way that we will not go beyond the provisions of the Constitution and other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u85	The current rule of law is such that it undermines the legislative role and parliamentary role of this national assembly, so it is imperative that we adopt this amendment, which we have drafted in Novi Slovenija and have tabled. Of course, it also has a strong link to Article 3. In view of the fact that I have not heard, there has been no obedience to the previous amendment, at least some positive views, I am afraid that what is actually said in the substantive sense by Article 3 will be realized, that the government represents and represents the Republic of Slovenia, and the government is independent of the EU. So, the National Assembly is just going to be a statistician. He'll just be a statistician, and he'll be helping the government. He won't have any function. No functions, just decoration. This is inconvenient with his constitutional role. Finally, this law can prove to be unconstitutional. I therefore appeal to the MPs of the National Assembly to accept and support this amendment, as well as that amendment to the previous Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u87	If we accepted this amendment from the Slovenian People's Party, we would make a compromise that would certainly contribute to impreciseness, inadequacy and, above all, would be an obstacle to normal functioning. The things that have been highlighted many times, and also the gentlemen from the government, have been involved in this and have absolutely agreed with this, perhaps even some lady, and yet it has been made clear at that time that we are regulating relations between the government and the national assembly. It's the title of the law. This is also the result of Article 3a. If that were the case, it would be necessary to speak in the constitution about the national world, and then to speak in marriage. Or it is necessary to change the title of the law, or to say that this law governs the relationship between the government, parliament or the State Assembly and the Council of State. But it's not like that. However, the logic of the communication between Brussels, the government and the National Assembly is clear. I have absolutely no objection to the fact that, after all its functions, the State Council, after all the influences it has, participates, formulates proposals, gives initiatives, helps to create positions. What's that supposed to mean? In order to put something into the rules of procedure and we will say, the world can veto on a proposal of positions that the National Assembly will forward to the government when it goes to Brussels to apply some Slovenian positions. That's how far this imagination can go. But I don't want to develop it because we really cleared it up in the preparation phase. After all, we couldn't bring the law into force for a few months, until we cleared it up because one of the members of the group had brought this issue up. And, of course, the correspondence between the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Council of State is also known. Please, all of you who have any doubts, take a look at this. I have looked at and participated in these matters in the way that the Law and Legal Affairs Service, the Secretariat of the Assembly and, of course, also external colleagues, then in final decisions what we will put into law, but leave the idea of law or order it in the rules of procedure. If the rules of procedure say what it is now that all materials must also be obtained in the national world, and I think it is right, and that if they report on time on their own concerns, in the form of opinions and suggestions, they will also take them into account in the formulation of positions, then I am sure that the national assembly or the relevant working bodies in the national assembly will take them into account. It seems to me that it might even be wrong for these regulations to give some promise in this law, some illusions, that the matter would go in a different direction. I think that, even for the National Assembly, for the home labour force, I absolutely agree that it must remain the weight of establishing positions first in the home labour bodies, if we are talking about agricultural issues, I am sure that the Committee on Agriculture will have to prepare some views before the Committee on European Affairs or this Committee dealing with these matters, otherwise we will be ineligible. But that we are doing other things here before that, if time permits, I think that those Fridays, when these meetings of these big committees are supposed to be, will certainly be a problem before then, that we will not have positions. If someone has something in his head, because I don't know what he thinks we're going to do in the rules of procedure, we're going to have to wait for the position to be set, as is the case with the laws, let's say seven days wait for the state council to respond or even meet on the subject of one law or not. If anyone thinks these things, then we can make our lives miserable. I don't want to put it that way. Therefore, for the time being, I am fully open to discuss and see if there is any need to improve this relationship when changing the rules of procedure. I wouldn't want to burden the law with that, at least I wouldn't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Chairman. Allow me a few words to each of these amendments. First of all to Article 4 presented by the New Slovenia Group of Members. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to think carefully. Indeed, this amendment is highly justified; it is not just an editorial correction. See, Article 4 in the first paragraph states: The National Assembly participates in the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in those matters which, by their content, under the Constitution and the laws, fall within the competence of the National Assembly. So, the correct diction here would be that the National Assembly formulates positions because they are within its jurisdiction. However, the National Assembly may participate in the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia to give all other areas other than the Constitution or the law under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, because otherwise such a dictatorship may constitute a very severe and strict restriction on the role of the National Assembly in the work of the European Union institutions. I speak to the institute, regardless of the fact that the government has a legislative branch of power in the world and so on. I would like to point out this, too, to my colleagues, which is also recalled by the President of Ireland, where I was recently at a meeting where they stress the important role of the National Assembly and its openness, since the National Assembly, as a legislative branch of power in a country that is also a member of the European Union, is the link between all peoples and the European Union. What the government doesn't. I therefore warn colleagues and colleagues that this amendment is very meaningful. One is to form, because it is by law and by law the duty of the National Assembly, the other is to participate in the design. In the Slovenian National Party, we have drafted an amendment that is identical, almost identical, or similar to the amendment of other investors, namely that in the second paragraph of Article 4, the text of "European Council and Council of the European Union" is replaced by the words "institution of the European Union". We have also discussed this, I think, at a meeting of the European Affairs Commission and elsewhere. And we all agreed to that at the time. This is because, given the general, abstract approach to the appointment of the bodies of the European Union, under this law, it must already be meaningful to use the same term, i.e. 'the institutions of the European Union'. And let's use this term through all this law. This would, of course, eliminate the so-called terminological mismatch. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 4 in the Slovenian National Party to replace the comma with a dot in the third paragraph and delete the remainder of the text. Why? The adoption of the declaration, we know that it means a reference to a plenary session, means an additional use of time. So according to the procedure, it means accepting a declaration, either intentionally or unintentionally, as you would like, which, of course, can be very controversial in certain cases. Some cases because of the long-term procedure are not up-to-date, it may be possible for the National Assembly to adopt one of the declarations, even after the deadlines required otherwise by the work of the European institutions. This would mean that the whole work in the context of the adoption of a declaration was irrelevant or the declaration adopted would have had no effect. I hope that colleagues and colleagues will also support this amendment by the Slovenian National Parties and that it is very, very meaningful. And to the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, allow a word or two. I fully understand the desire and determination of both the State Council and the esteemed colleague of the like, to name the other body of the State Council within the framework of Article 4. But still. But here I have to say that it would actually not be good and it would not be right to do so. In particular because relations between the National Assembly and the Council of State are already regulated in one way or another by certain legal acts that exist. However, since this law, the Act on relations between the Government and the National Assembly, means that the relationship between the State Assembly and the Government includes, of course, all that binds the Council of State to the work of the National Assembly. I'm in Ireland, too. We talked about roles there. The question is now, although we have been talking about double housework, the role of the State Council as one home, within the framework of the functioning of European institutions and European labour bodies. There, too, we were told clearly and loudly that, except as the case of the Bundesrat, the other German home, except in such cases where they are precisely separated, all relations are also at European level among others, such as the ratio of the National Assembly: the State Council with us, arranged within the country and within this Main Council, that is, the National Assembly. There we were counseled against any legal definition of working bodies. However, he is definitely walking with us, he is a very active member of the State Council, including on a very important working body such as Kozak, which is very active and has every opportunity and after inclusion, members of the State Council will also have exactly the same opportunities, all opportunities in the six-member delegation that will visit the working bodies to participate. How much will they participate, who will participate, but only a matter of agreement, within this national assembly, within this country. So the agreement between us, between the National Assembly and the Council of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you. In turn, Irma Pavlinič Krebs gets the word, and then a colleague of Aloise Peterle. I have a report of everyone who raised your hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We've been looking at this regulation for a long time. I am of the opinion that it would be good if it were already adopted so that, under the conditions it brings, the government and the National Assembly could already try to simulate the operation and, therefore, during the period of full membership, in fact, the President of the National Assembly could say, with full lungs, the government and the National Assembly could participate in the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in the proposals, the rules that we transpose into the competence and sovereignty of the institutions of the European Union, i.e. those where we participate and co-form them. That is why I ask the representatives of New Slovenia, in particular Mr Peterlet, why today at once, even though they were signatories to this bill, why an amendment that goes somewhere beyond the concepts that have been clear to all of us all the time. It formed them as the foundation of the European Affairs Commission. And I think it is clear to all of us that the National Assembly in this process, which we write down in this law, is involved in the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia, not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the one who owes us, on the basis of the regulation of Article 9, to present the situation, to propose its policy as well, to look at a certain solution that will co-form within the institution of the European Union and, of course, to take into account the views that we will form as an equivalent partner of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Together, these will be the views of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that we are all united here, that it is the wish of all institutions, both governments and the National Assembly, that these positions will be the best interests of the Republic of Slovenia. So I think that the basic text is completely in place and follows the entire objective that we are pursuing. The other amendment tabled by the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party, which are also the proponents of this law, is, of course, a reflection of the decision taken by the Internal Policy Committee. In the first part, it is a matter of consistency that, instead of a specific indication of the two institutions in which the government decides on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, the European Council and the Council of the European Union make a general dictatorship, i.e. the institutions of the European Union. And, of course, the declarations are also proposed as deletion. Mr Barovic, the two amendments proposed by your Group of Members are contained in the amendment of the four groups of Members, with exactly the same content. It is a matter of general dictatorship and deletion, of course, of the possibility of the State assembly accepting declarations. We know exactly that, following the current rules of procedure of the declaration, the National Assembly is to be adopted at a meeting of the National Assembly, but we also know that, in the first paragraph of Article 4 of this Act, we have given the power to the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy to form only the positions and, exceptionally, the national assembly at the meeting, as defined in Article 11. Therefore, I propose that because a high majority is needed, however, they continue to cooperate as constructively as they have so far been to realize that their amendment, which is under 1, is in fact no different than the text written down, but the text written reflects more clearly what we have been pursuing, that under point 2 of the amendment of all the applicants is thus governed by what we have all been united in, and at the same time also summarises the amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u92	Thank you. The word is Aloys Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank the honourable Member and Vice-President for her kind concern for New Slovenia with regard to the first amendment to Article 4. I would like to say that its debate has some basis in the event that we understand the good purpose of the New Slovenia Group of Members in order to play such a role in the National Assembly, in order to shape the position of the Republic of Slovenia in all EU matters. In that case, we'd be sitting around all the time, and I don't think we'd make it through if we understood things that way. The Group of Members was based on this in its thinking and proposal, from the practice of the State Assembly through the Foreign Policy Committee, when it mandated the negotiating group, the government group in the negotiations, when the mandate adopted here was, of course, the position of Slovenia. At the time, the government did not say that it was not sovereign, but it was sovereignly exercising the mandate given to it by the National Assembly where it went. Here I see one parallel and I would ask you to understand the purpose of the Group of Members in this direction. I personally believe that it would be better if we were very strict in understanding and interpreting the amended or new Article 3a of the Constitution, from which it is clear that the National Assembly, when it wishes, can adopt positions and that we are also paying attention to Article 11, in which this doctrine, as adopted on the Committee on Internal Policy last time, speaks of accepting, in this case, plenary treatment, in order to adopt the views of the Republic of Slovenia at that time, not only participates or co-forms, but accepts. At that time, this is a fully binding mandate. That's how I understand it. That is how I think that if we read Article 11 correctly and the position or amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, which I think is identical to the previous amendment of the KEZ, there would be no need for a guardian proposed by our parliamentary group in this case. That's how I see it. However, with regard to matters or amendments of the SLS to the role of the State Council, I share my opinion with those who believe or who are convinced that this law does not grant or amend the constitutional status of the State Council, which is known by the Constitution and is also defined in the Rules of Procedure as a way of cooperation, information concerning the legislative matter being dealt with and adopted by this House. Here, too, I would like to pay very close attention to words that can be very difficult after they appear in the Official Journal, and you know that at times we have changed things quickly because we have taken things too quickly. This added fourth paragraph of Article 4 under the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party could also be understood by the fact that the cooperation of the State Council constitutes a co-formulation of the positions of the national assembly, which is the only one mentioned in this law or the change of constitution dictates this to it. Therefore, in order to avoid this risk of interpretation, I think that there is no need for us to pursue the status of the National Assembly in this law and that what is already stated in the Rules of Procedure or if we feel that this needs to be re-examined, then let us conclude that we will do so in the Rules of Procedure, but there is no need to introduce this purpose by law in order to do so. The other thing is about COSAC. That is where the Senate or the Council of State of the Member States participate. Ours is starting to work together. COSAC shall act by consensus. Here, however, we may sometimes have a question of how to reach agreement if the Council of State decides to continue to cooperate on this, given that we have only a few different positions in this role of co-operation in COSAC. We can come to this, in the extreme case that the world does not agree with a solution that is supported by a delegation of the National Assembly but not by the world. Then we won't be in harmony with each other, and our business will fall. This would be a good way to think about the whole and all the finesse of these matters. So I don't see the need to support this amendment, because for the first time, I think that we should not change this status law and we have heard many times how they have in Austria, how they have in France - nothing helps us. Anyone who wishes to change the status of the State Council must be subject to constitutional changes by the Constitutional Commission. And that's what I'd say. The Council of State is therefore neither co-decision nor co-forming, but may adopt its views in accordance with Article 97 of the Constitution and may include them or use them in shaping its views if it so wishes or wishes. That, I think, is a very clear word in these matters. I think that Mr Ambassador Anderlich spoke very similarly and in an identical manner. But I'd like to make another wish here. See, I would be happy if today's decision on this subject would also end with a conclusion that in the third reading we should also have changes to the rules of procedure before us when we decide to redesign the house on the subject of European matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you. Yasha Zląbet has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I agree with the second point of Article 4 and, in fact, with the first point of Article 4. But I think we look too much at the European Union as some octopus to eat us and take away our identity. The fact is, in Brussels, hundreds of thousands of foreigners live from all over Europe and also from America and these foreigners have the opportunity to vote in elections, but do not take advantage of this option. Only 17% of foreigners, EU citizens go to the elections in Brussels. It is said that they have indeed maintained their national identity, so it is up to us alone to maintain it as much as we will. After all, if you look at Greece or Portugal, which is already a good time in the European Union, they have not changed their mentality or at least not changed enough. So I think, I fear that the European Union has some mechanisms that will devour us in its wheel, completely without connection. So, we're also going to stay Slovenian, even if we're going to Brussels every month on business. That is how I think that, in fact, Brussels is not the problem here, but the problem is the relationship between the government and our parliament. Parliament, however we look, on any side, will have less powers than it has had so far. And I think he's gonna have to have his sleeves rolled all the time to paralyze a government that's more dynamic, more powerful, more knowledgeable and more access to information and so on. And we can talk about the Finnish model, the Danish model, but the fact is: any model we take, the government will always be stronger than the National Assembly. However, I think it is completely depressed to talk about the state world at this time, because in this story with the State Council it is necessary to sit down once and in fact to set some criteria, which will be some normal criteria, so that every now and then the state world will not try to get another status at home with such or other manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you. Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. Well, perhaps it would be in this debate, which has re-enraged on this amendment, which we have also proposed in the Group of Members on the participation of the Council of State in forming the positions of the EU National Assembly in matters. In fact, I think it is wrong to think about the fact that if we write down the amendment that we have mediated and tabled in the National Assembly, this amendment could produce the possibility for the State Council to veto the decisions of the National Assembly. If we truly listened to the representatives of the State Council on the committees, then we could find the following: What is the basic problem of the State Council? The fact that some of the national working bodies may not have been informed in the current way of functioning of the national assembly may be the case, as already stated in the Rules of Procedure. And in order to avoid this practice and to merely state in this law that, in fact, in the Rules of Procedure, we will explicitly set it up and we will accept it in this Chamber and this House - no one else will accept it. And we will create the criteria and criteria by which the state world will actually be able to participate in these processes. So every fear here is superfluous, and the fear that was present today is that the state world would be given too much power. I do not know, but I ask why we would not allow the Council of State to be informed in a timely manner and that it can also make its comments and suggestions to the views of the so-called large committee here in the National Assembly. In fact, no, look, the fact is: sometimes, if it's good will, a matter can be written twice, but in another case, it's just a promise, because the matter is settled, and those promises or those things that they make are not kept. I believe that, at the final stage, we have a significantly poorer effect as well as a poorer effect. As Mr Potts has already said, the fact is that here, this amendment would cost us nothing and probably benefit us more than damage. We will write down in the Rules of Procedure what will be the way in which the Council of State participates in the EU. Nothing more than what he can do right now - to be invited to the committee and to convey his position on the committee. And I believe that the fact is that, from a constitutional point of view, the role of the State Council is inconsistently regulated, but if we want to or do not want to accept part of the role the State Council plays in the legislative phase. It's a de facto known fact. However, let us now ask ourselves whether, as a national assembly, when we form positions on European Union issues, we want to close ourselves in this own circle, or whether we want to invite as wide a spectrum as possible, in particular those who have shown this interest. I think it is probably wise for the National Assembly to listen to all those who, of course, are willing to participate in the procedure that these national assemblies have. And just to conclude, I'm not here to repeat this story indefinitely, but this amendment would cost us nothing, and I could use something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In a way, I think that in this marginalisation of the role of the National Assembly, there is much choice and drink of words and, on the other hand, it seems to me that, in this amendment to the first paragraph of the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group, there is a diction that should properly regulate the position of the National Assembly in the formulation of positions. Personally, I also believe that the National Assembly must formulate positions of constitutional competence, as well as in the text below of this amendment. In fact, if we are to give up the formation of those positions that are within the constitutional competence of the National Assembly, then we must do so by changing the Constitution. I think that by now we have changed the Constitution for what was necessary and further changes, in my opinion, are not necessary. And if I now skip from here to here the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, I must say that it seems to me that in this paragraph, more than likely they wanted to stress the role of the State Council in a very sophisticated way or in some artistic manner, they stressed that they agree, in my opinion, with this amendment of the New Slovenia. Indeed, this amendment is: the participation of the State Council in the formation of the positions of the National Assembly does not say: the participation of the State Council in the participation of the National Assembly in the formation of positions. In fact, it speaks clearly of the independent design of the positions of the National Assembly. In fact, I am grateful that, in an indirect way, they have expressed that the role of the National Assembly is somewhat underserved in Article 4, paragraph 1, so that I think that, with this framework of expression, the position that constitutional powers can no longer be curtailed to the national assembly that this amendment is a good one, but I cannot imagine how some role of the State Council could be anticipated in some future changes to the Rules of Procedure. So in this part it seems to me that this is a more political gesture, which is probably not possible to realise in an appropriate way. Now, for what reason I think this amendment is still appropriate to paragraph one. Indeed, we must in some way stop this marginalisation of the National Assembly. I think that in previous articles and further articles we have given the government sufficient powers to enable it, as mentioned above, to realize the views of the Republic of Slovenia, etc. However, if we leave that alone in this article, it is said that this "make-up" role of the National Assembly to participate in the formation of positions, I think that in some way we would attach to those in public opinion that after Slovenia's admission to the European Union, the State Assembly will in some way be unnecessary. Placing these views that the new National Assembly will no longer have much to do to ensure that everything is accepted, absolutely everything is accepted, in Brussels. The placement of these positions has already gone beyond all the limits likely for the role of a Member to be further reduced, further evaluated and, as a result, said that although they have no authority, they no longer know what to do and still receive good wages as they always do. Once again, I think that this amendment has found a suitable diction in this dictatorship, which at the same time expresses the legislative amount or legislative format that the National Assembly must carry out and at the same time expresses that this does not go through the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you. France Tsukati is given the floor to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. By the time he came to the National Assembly, the law was largely harmonised. And I would be even more coordinated if the Committee's debate did not have some deviations from this harmonisation. The current problem at this stage is first of all the following. In Article 4, the second paragraph is re-placed. In this second paragraph, it states that within a certain period of time the State assembly must consider or at least demonstrate its intention to deal with it, otherwise its opinion is irrelevant; otherwise, the Government will consider that its position is the final position of the Republic of Slovenia So, if it misses the deadline set, of course, in Brussels, the State Assembly no longer has a word. That's all nice and all right. However, if we move forward, to Article 8, which has been amended since the original harmonised text, the second paragraph was in the original text, which is now deleted, and this second paragraph said the following. I quote: "The Government of the National Assembly shall forward the EU's proposals to this law and additional materials, etc. "So after the previous dictatorship, the government was obliged to obtain materials and send them to the National Assembly. Clearly, then, the State Assembly can make a commitment or a deadline can be set for it; by that time, you need to take a stand, or you have nothing to say. However, it now says that the government is informing the national assembly about EU matters. What does that mean? This means that the government will say that this and this material are being reported in Brussels. She'll let you know. Just the title of the material. There's no other way. He's in the loop. Now, how long will it take for the National Assembly to get to this material if there is a deadline, say, one week? How do we solve this dilemma? So this is the first question that is not solved, which is complicated, which is further complicated, of course, for the benefit of government freedom and for the detriment of freedom or the national assembly. Of course, here is the proposal of New Slovenia that the Republic of Slovenia must, no later than 14 days after receiving the EU material, so when the government receives the material, it must forward it to the National Assembly. If the amendment of New Slovenia is adopted, the law will be acceptable to us. That's the first conclusion. However, it is necessary or necessary to introduce into the law a provision applied by other European countries, namely a provision on the parliamentary reserve. A reserve where the government of certain countries in Brussels requires an extension of the deadline to be discussed by its national, domestic and domestic parliaments. This reserve is very often used by Germans, and is also used by other countries. However, this option will show respect for and respect for opinions and respect for the legislative branch in general. The second question that is now being raised is in Article 7, the text so far is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u102	We're at the 4th. Please, Mr Sugar has the floor, but we're with Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u103	Then, at this point in time, as my comment on Article 4 relates to Article 8, I have therefore referred to Article 8 because Article 4 would be acceptable if the amendment had been adopted in Article 8. I said this dissonance, this disharmony, dangerous disharmony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u104	Thank you. I've got five more contestants to report. Aloys Sok is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much. So, of course, there are many Members here who have not participated in the committee in the preparation or adoption of this law, and, of course, as Members who are active in other areas, we have not had the opportunity to follow this actively. However, when the law is passed, it tantifies all Members, not only those who are on this or that committee, but in fact all Members. Now that the second reading of the amendments is in front of us, I read and find that this law, as it was written, marginalises the role of the National Assembly. And it puts the role of the government at the forefront. Whether this is good or not from the point of view of the Republic of Slovenia will show time. Today it is difficult to say what this law will mean in practice. The good thing about marriage is that it can be changed at any time, fixed. And those who today are the biggest advocates of such solutions in this law, to whom we have proposed several amendments in New Slovenia, all in order to correct this law in the sense that the National Assembly retains those powers that it is bound by the Constitution and the law, but you probably count, I don't know, from some projection of enabling events and you think that the relationship should be maintained as it is, because you will be the ones who propose and form the government and stand for this government. But these things can change at any time in the country and change thoroughly. I think it would be very good at this stage to examine all possible moments and also what the Slovenian People's Party proposes in relation to the State Council, and to see whether it is necessary and reasonable for the State Council, which otherwise has its powers under law, to be included in this law in some way. For if not, it will also be possible in the future to present major obstacles to work either for the national assembly or for the work of the government. The amendment we have proposed in New Slovenia has not been written so quickly, but we have also considered this situation, even in relation to Article 8; namely that the National Assembly, when it comes to powers falling within its competence, not only those who participate, but simply the National Assembly then formulates the positions of the Republic of Slovenia. If these amendments - not only New Slovenia, but also the other proponents - correct this law, then I hope to say that it will probably be good; but if not, as in our practice, it will most likely be very fast to make amends. And that's what I'd like to point out. Even though Mrs Krebs said earlier that this law has been passed for a very long time, and it would be that these solutions are good, I must remind you that this National Assembly is actually adopting many bad laws, which are being corrected either by a constitutional court by its decisions or by Parliament itself. I don't know if we can calculate, whether it's sustainability or whether the duration of our laws is very short. Problems quickly arise and then we change marriages quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u106	Thank you. Dusan Wolf has a word to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to refer to the proposal of the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I personally believe that the adoption of this amendment could push the path towards hell itself, because I am sure that this content does not belong to this law. And that the relationship between the National Assembly and the Council of State is already well regulated. On the other hand, this law does not diminish the role of the State Council, even when it comes to matters of European affairs, especially in the light of its constitutional position. Any different thinking I have estimated could jeopardize the basic purpose of the law on the one hand, and on the other hand some operationality and effectiveness of the action, I am talking about the Republic of Slovenia, and of course through my competent authorities by representing views and in this also interests in the European Union. The State Council, this has to be stressed, does not, of course, represent another home after the constitution. And when we look at the provision of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where the powers are indicated, it is quite clear that there is some correction to the National Assembly. So it's a ratio to the National Assembly. And this is what the proponents themselves find in their explanation, which, in my opinion, is somewhat confusing. First, they write that the State Council does not have any effect under the Constitution on the functioning and responsibility of the government. In their conclusion, however, they say, if, then, it would also indicate to the State Council that it would have an appropriate impact on the functioning of the government. So, there's nothing going on here. From this explanation, I think it would be possible, although I believe in the well-intention of this amendment, but it might actually be understood that it is trying to create some "by-pass" that would give the state world in these matters some status that does not come after the constitution. And this is not about any fear, as has been pointed out today, but it is about a simple desire for a clear distinction between the powers of the national assembly, the state council, and, on the other hand, the government towards the European Union. Nor is it a matter of preventing the performance of those tasks that have been imposed upon the State Council by the Constitution. I believe that it is also necessary to attach to the opinion of colleague Loizet Peterlet, who said that if this constitutional position of the State Council would want to change, it should be through a change of constitution, not in this way, although I believe that this was not the intention of the applicants. But that's the way it's supposed to be. That is why I will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u108	Thank you. Before I give it to the next debater, he has a replica to discuss with his colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, I was misunderstood. Your Group of Members is a co-proposer of this regulation, which has been in the process for a long time. New Slovenia's emissary group. Your parliamentary group is co-signature of the two amendments, where all the candidates are co-signatory of these amendments. And four more individual amendments have been tabled as if you've actually become familiar with this regulation today and would like to correct something else. That was the core of my debate. I don't think that's good. This is a regulation which, of course, should have fairly uniform support for good government work in relations with the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you. I give the floor to my colleague, Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u111	Thank you very much. First I applied for See, as follows: this amendment, which was signed by New Slovenia - the cosigner is not disputed. [[...]] One is the EU institutions, which we fully agree on, instead of that dictatorship, the EU institutions are now being established, which no one is opposed to. And the rest of us - I don't know, Article 6 is not controversial either. There's nothing disputed about it. We could have done it. But it's about Article 4 or our amendment. If you read the text of Article 4, you will by no means find out who accepts the position that becomes the position of the Republic of Slovenia. Read it, fellow Members. He's not here. We're all working on something. We're all working together. Don't mind me, I'll set up one nasty parabola for the previous system. We've all worked together in the previous system. And we're wondering if that's when we were wondering - who took it. In one of the cabinets, it was accepted, and it was really accepted. And that's what this is all about. Why would the law challenge authenticity and constitutionality as to why they would contest the role of the national assembly in accepting those positions where it has jurisdiction? In technical terms, the matter will go very easily and easily in our opinion. But there can't be ambiguity. The government probably - a proposal of views, yes - but someone for God's sake will accept them. If the National Assembly does not accept them in its proceedings, at some point or whatever, they will not. Then it means that these are the positions of the Republic of Slovenia, yes. But if he says it, it'll be his point of view. They will be his views, he will accept them - co-forming opinions. Or that means, if we co-form, co-decision, then we should have some 'grams' in which the government would have something, and by the National Assembly and adopt common positions, that would be a co-formulated position. And if we take further into account Mr Podobnik's proposal, or the People's Party, it would still be a state council and we would co-form the three. It is. Maybe it's semantics, but it's also pure concept. That's what I'd like to point out. Look, buddy, text, you'll see there's no reception. That's why I think this supplement, the amendment has been corrected, has been corrected and will not make a problem. He's really not gonna make a problem. From the government, the government adopts its views when it gives the text to the National Assembly, it adopts its position, that is its proposal. You know, in this way, in short, there's no need for anyone to take a stand. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you. Anton Anderlich has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u113	Now, of course, some things might have to be clarified. To speak of the fact that when a member of the committee was amended, we have made the dictatorship worse, is completely unargued and does not meet the objectives of Article 4. The Government has proposed an amendment adopted by the Committee, which is the second paragraph in its entirety. And here it is clear that it is only one matter that we are dealing with. By changing the Constitution, by joining the European Union, the Treaty, we transferred part of the functions to Brussels, we transferred part of the functions from Parliament to the government, and it is clear that when the government receives a proposal for an arrangement from Brussels, it forms its position on this act and, together with this act, sends - or whatever this material is called - to the National Assembly. The second paragraph of Article 4 explains that the State assembly must respond in the manner provided for. In so far as it responds, it means that it intends to adopt a position within a certain period of time, to form a position, to give an initiative to how, according to the assembly, it thinks that a question should be settled. If this position differs from the Government's position, from the Government's proposal in this case, then it means that it becomes the position of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the government's position in the next procedure. Whether this position will be applied or not is a matter of later events. We, too, in terms of procedures in the National Assembly, in the sixth and other articles of things are to be clarified and detailed, and this article, or this second paragraph of this article, specifically speaks of that at that time - because Mr Drobnic has now said that there is no one in the position that we are all shaping, etc. - when the assembly or the relevant working body does not respond and says: we want to form this act, give it a position if it has not been taken by the national assembly, means that those positions which have been sent by the Government are the positions of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's all. And that's all this article does. It regulates the way the government and parliament communicate and regulates the way the positions are worked out. And here, of course, is the debate here on the amendment that I have already stated myself, the Slovenian People's Party, which I do not support, and I also think that the excessive tightening of this issue to the formation of positions could also have some built-in blockades, which could probably be a further obstacle, which is why I do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you. I will give the floor to a government representative, Mr Engelman.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Maybe just for some explanation. In fact, this second paragraph of Article 4 has been submitted to Mr Cukjati's attention on the parliamentary reserve which can be invested, in order to express the intention of the National Assembly to deal with this matter, even if not within a period when the matter is already beginning to run, allowing the Government to put the matter down in Brussels as well as in some other parliaments. It seems to us that if we look at the comments then that it is not somehow clear who then takes the position, if we look at individual Articles 6 and 11, then it is very clear that the National Assembly is to accept the court and also what is in the EU matters, how it is to be dealt with - it is also clear, in fact, that we must then take into account further Article 9, where it is very detailed what the Government will have to submit as a basis for the State assembly to be able to make an appropriate decision that it will actually have all the grounds. Thus, I think that the matter is properly regulated, as in other parliaments, and provides for the appropriate role of the national assembly and, after all, requires the Government to provide all the necessary documents to the national assembly in order to be able to make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you. A quiet run has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I agree that the law we accept is very important. It is important because it will regulate relations between the national assembly and the government on the issues that will be addressed in the future in the European Union. I doubt, however, that it is written so vaguely that there may be so many different explanations of its contents that I am hearing today. I seriously doubt that it is not that long and that it has short articles, because I have read it thoroughly several times. And I'm sure it's too much to say that we want to marginalize the work of the National Assembly. Really, ladies and gentlemen, I want this to be proven, because otherwise it's terrible to say it; but, no one wants it. The whole text makes it more or less clear that everything that the EU is concerned with must immediately come from the government to the National Assembly, that it must - of course, in the framework of the guidelines, and not in the sense that there is no position to wait for - decide the competent home labour body. They are indicated as being these parent working bodies. It is said that it is necessary for the Government to present these views in Brussels in advance on the subject of the working body of the State Assembly, that it must report on this, that it is said that when we consider it important to deal with the issue where we do not want the opinion of the EU Committee on Affairs or the Committee on Foreign Policy to be satisfactory for Parliament to then decide as a whole. I really don't know, I really don't know, ladies and gentlemen, where the marginalisation of the work of the High-A-vis Government National Assembly is. If it is, let me tell you that we are correcting because I agree with you that the government represents part of the people, the National Assembly represents the people as a whole, because it contains all the parties, including those who are not in the government coalition. This is a general rule that applies in parliamentary systems, so it is right that the State Assembly has an important role to play in the government. Only what you say is simply not true, because if you are looking at the whole of these articles; it is true that Article 4 states that you are involved in the formation of positions, but Article 6 states that it takes the same parent body into account, Article 7 states that working bodies decide on EU matters. What about this? Then let's just say that, and we'll say he has too many rights. Things are written in such a way that these few articles, which they are, are read as a whole and then, in my view, are relatively regulated accordingly. And in the end, there's only one thing. I think we understand differently the problem of the constitutional role of the State Council. After your discussions, it is clear that this will not be accepted, and I say again, I do not mind if this is not adopted in law. But the way he thought about being present that the state world has no role and that we are not obliged to determine the procedures and conditions under which he will play his part in these matters, but I do not think he is good. I think that we should not have abolished the entire chapter on the role of the State Council in the legislative function of the National Assembly with Article 3.a. And what is now part of this legislative function has been transferred to the European Union, I think the function of the State Council must remain in this part. We're going to solve it another time, and no harm, and some of the conflicts around it have already been, and we've solved them later, but I think it would be useful if we just unify these views, because I think it's a fundamental misunderstanding that I don't think is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you. Two other panellists have been reported. Janez Podobnik and then Irma Pavlinič Krebs. John Sponik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'd like to take another call. First of all, regarding the loss of this legislative function. I believe it is necessary to say that, because of the change in the Constitution and also because of the European Union's concept of operation, we must also, colleagues and colleagues, accept that we have transferred some part of the legislative function of the national assembly. We took it somewhere, and we lost it with a change of constitution, consciously. We have transferred something to our government and one part directly to the institutions of the European Union. I am also convinced that it is such a law that it is not easy to write it, that it has relatively few articles and if we read it as a whole, I would imagine it will work. It seems very important to me to emphasise the interpretation, as Mr Engelman put it, that, in the second paragraph of Article 4, when we speak of the intention to consider this as an argument for the government that we will have some time. This interpretation is very positive for me and goes in the direction of the parliamentary reserve instrument. I hope, Mr Engelman, that you will be able to do so, so that it will be possible to buy perhaps a few precious weeks in some rare situations or days. And if that's the point, it's a very good solution and it's actually going in the direction of a solution, as my colleague Tsukati previously presented. But the truth is, it's not definitely written like that. I would also like to explain the matter of the State Council. Of course, by no means did we want to change or resolve the constitutional position of the state world with our amendment. Personally, I do not think that this amendment and this substantive solution are that crucial. Of course, the first paragraph of Article 4 is much more important. And I'd also like to explain because Comrade Wolf has found some, as he said, illogical justifications. We have summarized our justification for the amendment from the expert opinion of Professor Grad, which is in the text that we then received from representatives of the State Council to the committee, as follows: "The opinion of the legal theory is that if the impact of the state council on the functioning of the government in the decision-making processes of the European Union, as provided for in the Constitution, at least partially replaces the loss of the legislative function of the national assembly due to the competence of the European Union, then it would also indicate to the State Council to ensure an appropriate impact on the functioning of the government." That's the sentence he used to ask his buddy Wolf. Therefore, we have proposed that we should be able to ensure an appropriate impact on the functioning of the government by which it participates in Union decision-making on behalf of the State. And even if there was no misunderstanding, we would expect, although it seems that it will not take a majority to determine in the Rules of Procedure just exactly how the State Council is informed and informed about matters. In no way, however, could I, with this new authority, which is not in any way a hindrance to the work of the national assembly. There was no minimum concern that he could make a fair investment, nor did the State Council want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you. And Aloys Sok -- he's quitting. That's what I ended up doing on the list of discussers. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 4. I'm moving on to Article 6. Three amendments have been tabled with him. The first is submitted by the parliamentary groups, the LDS Club, the United List, DeSUS, Nova Slovenija, SMS. Second Slovenian National Party and third New Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you very much. In the second paragraph of Article 6, the word "right" is inserted after the word "issues" in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Allow me to give an explanation which, of course, will convince colleagues and colleagues that the amendment is rightly submitted. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the text of Article 6 should be added to the guardian - this is precisely the word "right" - which will allow working bodies responsible for European affairs and for foreign policy to work smoothly, taking into account the deadlines that allow timely decision-making. What's this all about? The text of Article 6 thus far allows for the possibility that the decision on an EU case on a competent working body will not be dealt with in a timely manner due to the lack of opinion of the working body. This is precisely why the amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party allows for the possibility that, in cases where the parent labour body does not deliver an opinion in time, the European labour body may nevertheless adopt or adopt a position on a particular European case in a timely manner. So once again, the word "right" is used to set up a guard who does not hold back or cause stalemate in the decision-making process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u123	Thank you very much, very long debate, Mr Barovic, has caused on the Internal Policy Committee that the word "rightly" was "drawing" for two reasons. The first reason is that it is the desire that the mothers' labour bodies are the ones who always deal with a particular matter that is best known in European matters. They should therefore draw up an opinion on the basis of this opinion - the position of the Committee on European Affairs. You're afraid of what happens if you miss your hand. Nothing's gonna happen. The Committee on European Affairs will adopt a position without the opinion of the labour force in so far as it is late. What will happen if the European Affairs Committee does not adopt a position on a certain issue within the time limit, and the government has given it everything in due time - the government's position will become the position of the Republic of Slovenia. That's how it is. Of course, all players in this game, both from the home work bodies and the Committee on European Affairs and Foreign Policy, are expected to play their part from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If not, there is no obstacle that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is externally legally responsible for the institution of the European Union, will not be prevented. That's how this law is written. I don't think we need the word "right" at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you. Aloys Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the Slovenian National Party has tried to influence once again the fact that the word "rightly" would have been written in Article 6, although it did not receive support from the Internal Policy Committee and it is on the KEZ. I think that we would achieve a more flexible position, and I would rather see the word "rightly" allowing the committee to decide whether or not the mother's labour body has not taken a decision, and I think that this is also closer to the spirit of the Constitution or the provision in Article 3a of the Constitution, which says that the national assembly can - that is to say, even the mother's labour body can or may not - deal with the matter. I don't know who the forced labourer is to deal with the matter if it doesn't seem relevant to him, but to someone else or to the committee, because he's paying attention to some other aspect, some connection that the mother's working body hasn't seen. And I think that we would improve the text of this law if we allowed this word, although I in many ways share the concern of Mrs Krebs' fellow Members with regard to this word, which is sometimes very widely understood and applied a second rule from what the law sets out. I certainly, after a multiple study of this situation, am speaking in order to "rightly" but to add, I think we would come into a more flexible position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate under Article 6 and the three amendments to this Article. I am moving on to the debate on Article 7 and the amendments tabled. You have two amendments to Article 7. The first was submitted by the New Slovenia Group, the second Slovenian National Party Group. Bogdan Barovich has the word and then France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Article 7 is short and clear: "The working bodies referred to in the preceding article shall deal with and decide European matters at meetings which are not open to the public". After careful consideration, we have found that a better solution - and therefore the proposed amendment in the Slovenian National Party - would be to amend the text to read: "The working bodies referred to in the previous article are considering and adopting positions on EU matters at meetings which are generally open." As a rule, open to the public. After the meeting - it is thought, of course, that an editorial correction may be necessary - "after a meeting which was closed to the public, they shall communicate their views to the public". Why did we take such a stand? The National Assembly participates in the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in European matters, which makes it impossible for working bodies to decide on these matters, but only to take a position which is normally the basis for the adoption of opinions by working bodies. However, the Government is, of course, the body that takes decisions on the basis of its views. We oppose the strict legal determination that meetings of working bodies discussing and taking positions on EU matters are closed. The work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is assessed by the Slovenian National Party in its entirety, with the exception of exceptions, and this has been the practice of working so far, insofar as the working bodies of the National Assembly have discussed or decided on matters of State importance which required the absence of the media and the public meetings, i.e. these rarityes which have been. In exceptional cases, therefore, it is possible for the working body to be closed to the public and such a dictatorship must remain within the framework of the law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government on matters of the European Union. The fact is that the Slovenian public is still under-informed on European matters, which is why we estimate that the openness of meetings of working bodies and the possibility of monitoring hearings are important and because of greater public awareness of European Union matters that have a direct impact on both domestic affairs and on the life and work of all citizens and citizens. I suggest that colleagues and colleagues accept this dictatorship, that meetings are generally open to the public. But those who were not supposed to be, those who were supposed to report their views to the public. Unless, of course, we hear a really strong argument why meetings should normally be closed to the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. The basic original text indicates that the meetings are closed to the public or are not open to the public. The provision shall apply to all after a long and continuous period of time. We believe, however, that the public works in the legislative branch of power is of some value, a major democratic gain that can only be forfeited in exceptional cases. That's what you say, only when you have to weigh some other value. As a result, it is certainly inappropriate for us in principle to prohibit the public from knowing about our discussions. The European Union is even building its democratic, legislative and whole activity on the very intensive integration of civil society, in accordance with the principle of public work. I don't know why they'd put this in front of the public in principle. Certainly there will be cases where it will probably not be good for us to inform Europe of our discussions or to allow all our information to be leaked too soon, to other countries and so on, in such cases it should be possible to close it to the public. Even in dealing with our topic, in some cases they are closed to the public. And we believe that the same principle would apply here too, so we fully support the amendment of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this? Aloys Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I just want to say that there is a clear trend towards more public in Europe, at least as regards legislative decision-making. In the Convention on the Future of Europe, there have been many words and a draft constitutional treaty suggests or proposes that legislative action be carried out in front of the public, which is not yet a fact. However, as regards individual Member States or current practice, it is about half. Half debate behind closed doors, half after open. Now, given the Slovenian situation, we could be a little ironic, and we would say, the biggest guarantee that everything will come out of the public eye is that the meetings are closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u133	There's not much left to add. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. Where extraordinary needs are dictated, including in terms of the protection of national interests or the like, it shall then be closed to the public, otherwise the principle of public work shall apply. This applies to Parliament. And to think, the amendment is completely rectified. And if it were closed to the public, all in a row, it could be too problematic and it would not be for the benefit of national interests or for the benefit of the public and it would be a lot of rustling and concluding things that do not have a sense of reality. In short, an amendment has been put in place to be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u134	Thank you. Aloise Sok will discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u135	I would only add to this that it seems to me that we do not even have the right to close meetings before the Slovenian public and thus to raise doubts about what is being accepted and what is going on behind some closed doors, and then, of course, to communicate certain censored information to the public. I am in favour of the sessions being open or that the sessions are open. However, if, of course, it is a point, a debate, then the committee may decide and the meeting may be closed to the public. This is how the amendment of New Slovenia was written and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party was written in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Engelman as a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u137	Thank you very much. About the public. We must be aware that these are essentially negotiations in the European Union. We must be aware that these will require a very clear and very frank word on why a position will be adopted. As a rule, in my view, for these reasons, it will also be necessary to take into account the intentions of other countries. What I would say is that we will be informed of the views of other countries, and how we will then bring this boat to an appropriate position. Cases which may affect the situation of individual branches, individual undertakings, will also be addressed. That's why. At that time, the government will have to make it very clear why it is proposing a position where those reasons are. I would like to align this part of the debate - which is mainly about the debate that will take place on these two working bodies - with the debate on the Committee of Permanent Representatives in Brussels, so-called COREPER. And I never imagined that this part of COREPER would be public at any time. The public are holy. And we also have here in article 11, where there will be a plenary session, of course this matter will be public. Unless there are some very specific arguments that will lead to the closure of this meeting, then the government will propose. But this is really a very frank conversation, where I would say, also the positions of other countries that have been in different ways over also [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] These networks have been acquired, and because of the purest, most crystallised opinion in fact, this is appropriate. [[...]] Of course, the material before the meeting is completely public. The positions are then also completely public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u138	Thank you. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u139	Well, I think that's actually the point. In no case would they support any thing that could be understood in a way that would remain exclusively for the doors of the national assembly or the relevant working body. It is about all things of a public nature, and in the end, we have also adopted a law on access to information of a public nature, where it is certainly the duty of the State to ensure that all these views are communicated. After all, it is also those positions that the government has drawn up and the matters of which the National Assembly or the relevant working body has not expressed an interest in dealing with a particular matter. In our view, the question of whether a discussion on a working body is public or not is of secondary importance. It is important that everything that is happening there is the subject of a public presentation, and this is happening in a way that first informs the public, in an appropriate manner, of what is being discussed, and that then also communicates the views and, of course, all political groups and individuals participating in the debates, certainly present in their own way how they have seen this debate and what things have been taken into account and why they think that any that have not been taken into account. It's not good. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u140	Thank you. May I close the debate on the amendments to Article 7? Thank you. I am moving on to Article 8 and the amendment to this Article. New Slovenia's emissary group. Who wants a word? France Tsukati, Aloys Sok. Please, Sugar France has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. I am reopening the question which I have already raised in Article 4. And here I wonder if it is the task of the government, which is, of course, a source of information, because it first receives all the material for the EU to deal with matters, if it merely informs the national assembly of these materials and does not provide them and does not have to provide them and does not have to translate them or in any other way, as was the previous text. The previous text, as I said, made it very clear: 'The government is submitting EU proposals to the National Assembly'. Now it's gone. Who, then, will be in charge of providing EU materials to the national assembly? The National Assembly has no job to be at the core of information and materials, which the government has. I don't like the fact that he was on the board this paragraph, he doesn't like it. And for that I say again, here is a very correct amendment of New Slovenia and, of course, that is why we have not proposed new amendments, because we cannot really find a better dictatorship. We support the amendment of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u142	Thank you. Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. So that, after a closed meeting of the committee, the public should communicate their views on how the meeting was held, what colleague Anderlich said earlier, this is probably not going to work. Well, then this would be more like some form of anarchy than some serious work of the National Assembly. As far as the amendment to Article 8 is concerned, this amendment is based on the experience that we have in this national assembly in relation to the work of this current Slovenian government, when it constantly puts us under some time-consuming pressure with its proposals. After all, it has also enjoyed this right before the entry into the European Union, when a large number of laws must be adopted by the National Assembly, including certain system laws, which will of course have major consequences for all our citizens and citizens. Therefore, we have also proposed that the first paragraph of Article 8 should be amended in this direction, in order to ensure that the government commits itself to receiving within 14 days of receiving the EU case material, as referred to in Article 4 of this Law, to the National Assembly, and this Slovenian translation of the material. We believe that this amendment is in place and that it only improves the dictatorship of Article 8(1). And, of course, we propose that the National Assembly adopt this amendment and that it also determine how the Government must, and within what time frame, hand over to the National Assembly matters that are adopted by the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr. Engelman.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We must take into account that with May 1st we become a member, which means that materials will come in the Slovenian language. In short, there is no need for the government to translate such matters. They will come in the Slovenian language in essence twice. At the beginning, when a proposal for legislation is first submitted, and usually towards the end, before the meeting of permanent representatives, it is said before the COREPER meeting. Frankly, in the meantime, there will be times when he will be part of the material when something changes, even in a foreign language. We have also heard this from the Finnish Parliament, but at that time the deadlines are so short that Parliament - the government will certainly have to draw up positions in accordance with Article 9, explain what is also in these materials, explain what is the effect, what is the effect, but if we are realistic, it is virtually impossible to commit in such short periods, which are, at the end of the day, necessary for the decision to translate that additional material. We will have to act like all other parliaments. I also said on the committee, I do not understand that, say, the Finnish people would care less about the Slovenian language or the decision-making option in Parliament than the Slovenians. But it is essential, the materials are in the Slovenian language with 1 May. Part of the problem for those matters where they started before May 1st and will only be immediately, as I said, before the reception come again in the Slovenian language, but then those articles will also be regulated in the transitional provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u146	Thank you. I don't see any more desire for a debate. I would like to conclude the debate on Article 8 and the amendment tabled. I turn to the debate on the 10th Article, to which two amendments, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and the second New Slovenia Group are tabled. Who wants a word? My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Although I would like to say that the proposal by the amendment of the Slovenian National Party is actually a technical correction, unfortunately it is not. It's very important. I must warn the designer or authors of this bill that they were very superficial in the first paragraph of this Article. In fact, we have tabled an amendment saying that the first paragraph of Article 10 is amended to read: "The positions taken by the competent working body referred to in Article 6, paragraph 1, of this Law shall immediately be forwarded to the Government, which shall take account of them in its functioning in the institutions of the EU." Why? The original text of Article 10 shall refer to decisions taken by the competent working body referred to in Article 6, paragraph 1, on the proposal for positions. If we look at the first paragraph of Article 6, ladies and gentlemen, we see that we are talking about positions there and not decisions, which is substantive, at least for me, a fundamental difference. In addition, I would point out that this amendment of ours is also related to that other hidden thought or doctrine that I have pointed out at Article 4, which I must refer to, i.e., the National Assembly not only decides on matters that are permitted by the Constitution, the law and so on or adopts positions, but on all European matters. In such a way as to point out that this correction is needed and this amendment needs to be tabled. Of course, it is another question which arises if you allow a word or two, the second amendment to Article 10. In fact, one wonders on the basis of what decisions the government can assess that the application of the observations of the Republic of Slovenia is not feasible. Above all, I am disturbed by the other part, which says whether it would not be in favour of the Republic of Slovenia's position that the working bodies or the national assembly would accept and give them to the government. For them it would be very difficult to claim or, I do not know, I am too sensitive, the claim is offensive that the position that I have taken here, I do not know, with my colleagues, would be detrimental to the State of the Republic of Slovenia. Here, I could also say on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would absolutely support the amendment that follows this Article to delete the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u148	Thank you. Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u149	Even though formerly the fellow Member of the Council said that we should say what these ambiguities are in this law, and, of course, some of them have already been told in this debate to the amendments, because I have time, I will repeat them again. So we proposed an amendment to Article 3, because we are convinced that the first and second paragraphs of Article 3 are unclear. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u150	But we're at the age of 10.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u151	where it is said that the national assembly on the formation of positions on those laws falling within its competence shall only participate, then the closure of the meetings of the working body before the public and, ultimately, this amendment to Article 10, which states that the second paragraph of Article 10 should be deleted, namely, after discussion in the New Slovenia Group of Members, those solutions in this law that have literally led the government to will and only to the manner of conduct that we have received in this Assembly many times over the past three years. [[...]] I think that this is acceptable from the point of view of the Republic of Slovenia, and we also wonder, on the basis of what criteria the Government will assess that some of the views formulated by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia are not in favour of the Republic of Slovenia. So where are the criteria for such an assessment? And if it remains so written that the government can, from moment to moment, negotiate with institutions in the European Union itself, assess which positions are useful to the Republic of Slovenia and which do not, it seems to us that there will be a considerable difference here between what the National Assembly has concluded and what we can actually achieve through the government in these institutions. From this point of view, we have concluded from this debate that we are proposing an amendment to delete the second paragraph of Article 10. But of course it's up to you to support it. However, as I said before, the laws can change, and I am sure that regardless of what Mr Engelman is saying here today - all these amendments, as a representative of the government, of course, must be opposed by the function - we will see whether we have been wrong in these proposals or whether we have had something in these proposals right. And it is right that this will then be recorded in the Magnography of the National Assembly and that we will be able to present this to you again on that occasion and, of course, tell you what our views were and what we advocated in the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u152	Thank you. And Mr. Engelman. I'd like to give Mr. Peterlet a word earlier so that you can give both of them a possible answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I think it would make sense to follow the Slovenian National Party proposal and to support this, in my opinion, simpler language, which will not put us in trouble, what is now the position of the Republic of Slovenia. Because when Parliament adopts it, this is the position of the Republic of Slovenia. And I think it's understandable enough what's going on if we just write opinions. In any case, I would like to say that this article is open so that, if the need arises, in the third reading, there will be, I would say, a formulation with which we would have no problem, or as many opinions as we have now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Engelman, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u155	Perhaps for clarification of Article 10, paragraph 2. In fact, in the world, it is decided in two ways. By qualified majority and by consensus. In the case of a qualified majority, compromises usually come to an end, where, according to the majority opinion, a somewhat individual proposal is being amended. If the government in this case does not have the possibility to change the position that has indeed been adopted in the national assembly even for a millimeter, then Slovenia will simply be excluded from this negotiation, which is acceptable. This is also what Sweden has told us, where, say, the government itself has had a very strong position since the beginning in the first period of its cooperation. And then they quickly realized that they were simply excluded from all these negotiations. Because all the other countries knew that Sweden could not change even a millimeter of that position. This is why this option is appropriate according to the way in which Europe makes its decision. As to the benefit or no benefit, although this is a basic doctrine already enshrined in the law, it seems to me that it could be taken into account in that part of the decision, where there is agreement. Even there, if you change the basic proposal a little bit, there is a possibility of a few builds and it is also useful for Slovenia. If Slovenia gives the veto, then nothing is accepted, you don't have any positive points, because you're simply a veto. One thing is not arranged, which is bad for Slovenia, and usually applies, very frankly, that the veto country always pays if it pays for some other matters. It is those who have some freedom, because the government must then return to the National Assembly, explain why it has done so, and then come to those mechanisms which are already envisaged by the Constitution, I will say what the National Assembly can do with the government or the individual minister if it is not satisfied with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you. I don't see a desire to discuss it anymore, so I'd like to finish it. The amendments will be decided today in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting in the framework of the votes, which, once again, will be 10 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 8. I would like to point out that participation in the vote due to qualified attendance would be appropriate. I'm breaking up the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law implementing the customs provisions of the European Union. I would like to thank the representative of the Government for his cooperation with the point which we have just concluded or stopped. We'll wait a moment for the government representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u157	I would suggest that while the government is coming here, we should only do one of the obligations if, for example, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the mother labour body, gave a report. Well, could you? Well then I would say that we are moving on to the third point, this is the second consideration of the proposal for a law implementing customs rules in the European Community. We would first ask Mr Cyril Puck to present the Committee's report on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u158	[[...]] [[Not included.]] Amendments to Article 109 of the Act relating to the arrangements for the conversion of free customs shops, the cross-border trade or transitional arrangements for non-Community goods in stock and, in this context, the proposal submitted to the Committee by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association for Tourism and the Hostages in order to supplement the provisions of the new seventh paragraph, which would extend the operating regime of these shops at the border with the Republic of Croatia. [[...]] After a very serious and reasoned debate on both sides, it is said both by the government and by the members of the committee, we have rejected the amendment in the light of the Government's strong arguments against the adoption of this amendment. Dear colleagues, I propose, in the light of what I have said, that we support such an updated or amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I suggest we just go to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Jožef Bernik, Nova Slovenije has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal for a marriage is not particularly romantic, so I will be very brief. The proposal is either a consideration or an attempt to adapt the European legislation on the implementation of customs rules. Interestingly, by the end of the deadline no amendments had been tabled by qualified applicants, but the amendments adopted by the Committee, as has already been said, had been followed by amendments to the legislative and legal service, which had thus almost written a new law. This, of course, raises the question of why it is necessary that the Ministry simply does not know how to write laws, that they do not need to be corrected to the extent that they have been done here. As has already been said, there have been many discussions, but there were no specific problems, except for the proposal to amend Article 109, which should have allowed these duty-free shops to remain in standstill conditions, but there was no support for this amendment because the State Secretary tried to convince that the objections raised by the Chamber of Commerce, etc., were not valid. Indeed, they talked about the fact that so many and so many jobs would be abandoned and that this is a concern that the government should think about. However, these arguments of the government have somehow outweighed, so that the committee and individuals have not supported this amendment. The whole set of amendments that I have drawn up, as I have said, are of a legislative and legal nature, in particular editorial, technical nature and do not essentially interfere with the content of this law, which should now be harmonised when it is adopted by European law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Leopold Grošelj of the United List has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u162	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law implementing the customs rules of the European Community provides for a more detailed regulation of the provisions of the customs code and other customs rules of the Community, which empowers Member States to continue to regulate the area in national legislation. Some provisions, however, where the European Customs Code refers to regulation in the laws of the Member States, govern areas not regulated by Community customs legislation. No transitional periods or exceptions have been negotiated in the process of negotiations for accession to the European Union in the section on customs union as regards compliance with European Community legislation. For this reason, the operation of our economic operators with economic operators from other Member States of the European Union will also be based on the freedoms of the internal European market, and trade in goods from third countries will continue to be subject to customs rules. The draft law further regulates the individual provisions of the Community legislation which have its basis for European customs policy in the customs law, which contains the basic provisions on how legal and natural persons must deal with goods imported from or exported to third countries by a Community territory of third countries and who, when and in what way must pay import or export customs duties. Our 1995 customs law in force, which was later supplemented by some of the amendments to the law, and on the basis of it, the subcontracting acts issued are almost fully in line with the customs law as a basic act and other customs rules of the Community. However, those particular areas which could not be taken over before membership will also cease to apply from the date of membership of the Slovenian customs rules. The drafter also decided, following the example of some members of the community, to regulate certain areas where the country felt the need for national regulation by adopting a specific law. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made certain comments to the draft law, to individual articles, which the Committee has mostly taken into account in the drafting and adoption of its amendments, as set out in the accompanying report of the Committee. I would also like to touch on the discussions on the Committee, where particular attention has been paid to the provision of Article 109 relating to the arrangements for the conversion of free customs shops into border stores or transitional arrangements for non-Community goods. It has already been mentioned that the parent committee has not adopted its amendment to Article 109 of the Act. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we would like to point out that the above-mentioned amendment of the Section of Free Customs Shops in the Association for Tourism and the Restaurant of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia requires a re- or re-examination of the amendment from all aspects, as the transformation of free-carrying shops into border trade does not provide employment for employees now in the premises of customs shops at the Slovenian-Croatian border and will result in indirect loss of more jobs in distributors. Therefore, in the Group of Joint Social Democrats, the majority of Members and Members will submit a complementary proposal for a law implementing the customs rules of the European Community, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Bozič, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law implementing the customs rules of the European Community. And if we look at Article 1, paragraph 1, we actually get an explanation of all the content of this law. It also states: This law regulates the implementation of the customs rules of the European Community, hereinafter referred to as ‘the Community’, which empowers Member States to continue to regulate the field of customs rules in national legislation and regulates matters in this field that are not within the competence of the Community. The position of our parliamentary group, the Slovenian People's Party, on the bill is as follows. At the time of entry into the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia will fully apply the European rules governing the functioning of the customs union, since no transitional periods or exceptions have been negotiated in the process of accession to the section on customs union, Chapter 25. Given that customs Union regulations are regulated in Council Regulations and Commission Regulations and Conventions or Conventions directly applicable, their transposition into national legislation will not be necessary. Although a large majority of the powers in the implementation of customs policy have been transferred to the European institutions, there remain some areas where Member States have the option of national regulation. In doing so, it was decided to regulate such areas in a special law, in the so-called national customs law. The proposed law aims to regulate in more detail the provisions of the Customs Code and other customs rules of the Community which empower Member States to continue to regulate the area in national legislation, or provisions where the European Customs Code refers to regulation in the laws of the Member States and areas not regulated by Community customs legislation. In our parliamentary group, we believe that the concept of resolution in the draft law of those areas is good and useful for Slovenia. At the same time, we estimate that the proposal for a law has also taken on both substantively good and optimally all these areas. On the basis of this, we assess that the proposed law with amendments to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is appropriate and necessary for adoption and that it represents a good legislative solution in this area, and that we will therefore support the Members of our SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word has Jože Kavticnik, a liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law implementing the customs rules of the European Community, supplemented by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, regulates the implementation of the customs rules of the European Community and thus complements them. The adoption of this law will ensure a smooth course of business in the single European market. The amendment proposed by the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce to maintain free trade at border crossings with Croatia was not supported by the committee, particularly because the government's arguments against the amendments were superior to those of the amendment. The government has warned that there would be a direct violation of the customs rules of the Community and, consequently, sanctions for Slovenia if free-customs shops were maintained. Members of the LDS Club will be supported by a complementary bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u168	Your Honors are here! Based on the fact that Slovenia has not negotiated any transitional period with regard to Community legislation and on the basis of the common European policy, at least as regards customs, we do not believe that anything other than the adoption of that law can be left to the national assembly. Exposing ourselves from this place again meaningful or pointless, but in any way we will, incompetence in the past is the inability of government negotiators around free-duty shops and later our neglect of this issue or our assessment of the wrong solutions. However, as far as this law is concerned, we or the national party attach particular importance to the third part of the law which deals with the regulation of customs control over non-Community goods and we consider that this is also the most important substantive point of the law. We would, however, like to see the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in at least the fifth part of the law, which regulates fees in respect of communications books and customs debt recovery, try to enforce the principle of the smallest administration possible. In the seventh part, which further explains or defines the situation at the border with the Republic of Croatia regarding border stores, at least as far as the national party's delegation group is concerned, we express our desire for a more liberal approach than that of the law. In the National Party, as I said at the outset, given that we are faced with the fact, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the Group and we would now like to ask the Secretary of State, Mrs Milojko Kolar, to present the position on behalf of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I will try to be very brief because the honourable Members have already said a lot in presenting a proposal for a law implementing the customs legislation of the European Union. I would just like to point out that the European Union's customs system is a very complex, integrated system, including a demanding system, as it covers the European Union's official charters with these customs rules over 8 000 600 pages, which will, of course, be directly applicable in Slovenia. Allow me to conclude, however, because, of course, these rules relate mainly to the economy which will have to implement this complex system, to mention what I think is very important, that we will also take care of this path for a very smooth transition to the customs transition and entry into the European Union's single market, so that the economy is already very intensively being prepared in recent months. Let me mention that we have already prepared all the proposals for sub-legislative rules, six regulations issued by the Minister of Finance on the implementation of this legislation, and four proposals for a government regulation, so that these regulations will be published in March, so that the economy can become familiar with them in due time and implement them properly, and we will in essence move from May 1st to European laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 27 February, following the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you to the government representatives. And we're moving to the next item in the agenda, 4. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed law on the amendment of the building laws. The draft law was tabled by Mr Franci Rokavec. With regard to this law, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the applicant for further explanation of the draft law. Mr. Franci Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! At the end of last year, I introduced a legislative procedure to amend the building law, notably Article 218, fourth paragraph. I defended the amendment at that time mainly because, in fact, a large majority of the municipalities had failed to harmonise and adopt new decisions on compensation for the use of building land, where it would also be necessary to include unpaved building land. This deadline expired last July. However, the problem encountered was mainly in the implementation of Article 218, paragraph 4 and 5. The fifth paragraph refers to the fact that municipalities which, within the time limit set in paragraph 4, do not adopt this decision shall simply be charged compensation for the use of building land at a level which is, of course, intended for walled building land. That is to say, a provision that is actually not feasible. I have, of course, extended the deadlines for the municipalities to adopt these decrees by 31.12.2005 or 1.1.2005. However, the congregations rushed. In practice, however, the second question has been raised that it can be formally adopted and it is more difficult to establish and define what is actually the identified walled building land, for which there are, in fact, conditions under Article 218, or what these conditions are. This is a key issue that can be charged compensation for the use of building land and, of course, in this context, the creation of a register of the new state of these land and, of course, also the obligations that cover citizens and citizens of each municipality. In fact, there are only a few municipalities in this country that do not have any decisions on compensation for the use of building land. Of course, I regret that there was no willingness on the Committee to properly correct paragraph 4 as well as paragraph 5 thereof. Of course, perhaps even under the fact already announced by the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy that a new law is being prepared, which will also resolve this issue and, of course, also the question of the Constitutional Court's decision, which is linked to another area of the building law. However, after the adoption of the amendment to the government law, I fear that we are probably more distant than we were on the committee at the time. In fact, the dictions proposed now put the municipalities back in an impossible position, that is, what was also a clear warning, both the Ministry of Finance and the tax services, that it is impossible in September if the records submitted by the tax administration, even by the end of the year, of course to issue the decisions and collect the contributions, is a real compensation for the use of the building land where the actual time limit is substantially too short. I myself, of course, anticipated that by 31 August of this year the municipalities would actually establish the necessary records, the Ministry of Finance has also submitted this data as a basis for calculating the actual appropriate consumption of municipalities, including for the area of unpaved building land in the coming year. I believe that this will probably be the only suitable route and that any run on the door to the nose, this year, will also execute the whole formula for collecting compensation for uninhabited building land [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] It's an adventure. That is why I insist on this bill in spite of everything. I know that there is not much possibility of actually succeeding, but I also expect from those who voted against this bill that when it is likely that a government proposal will be put forward at the forthcoming meeting of this national assembly, we will come together and prepare an appropriate solution to the 218th Article, which will actually be feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u174	Thank you, Chairman. Representative of the Ministry, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In New Slovenia, too, we regret that the committee has not otherwise been defined until the proposal of our fellow Member Rokavac. Because the committee could follow this and somehow extend this deadline, and thus, of course, give the municipalities the opportunity to reconcile the records they do not have today. Regrettably, you have served on the Committee on a large scale on another principle, which you also use many times when proposed by the opposition parties, namely that you have decided to instruct the Ministry of Environment and Space to submit its vision and your proposal for amendment to Article 218 by 20 February. February 20th is behind us, at least we in the opposition to this point have not seen any text spoken of before me by Comrade Rokavec. This 218th Article of the Buildings Act is intended to regulate the traffic of buildings and not as walled and unwalled building plots, but the question is how to establish registered building plots in view of the unplanned and fragmented cadastre of land. We wonder, too, whether ortho photographs commissioned and produced by the Ministry are sufficient grounds for the municipalities to produce credible records on the basis of some surveys. It is known that some people respond to such surveys, but most of them do not, so another meaningful solution should be found. However, what is very indicatively defined in Article 218 is that a new fee can be charged for the use of the building land even for those unpaved building plots on which the eligibility of the building is granted. We wonder what the concept of permissibility means, for if you can actually build a building on a land or not, in practice each individual meets when he wants to arrange an unwalled building plot. The spatial plans, which in some municipalities have largely defined unwalled building sites, but also, of course, contain a number of infrastructure water in these documents, and it is clear that where various infrastructure connections are planned, owners will never be able to build on those unwalled building sites. At least in the environment I come from, it's a case like this. When the municipal decree began to change, some individuals found that even up to two hectares of unwalled building land, which they had never proposed on their own as unwalled building plots, they were simply, I don’t know, proposed by municipal and local congregations there before 1990. They are also aware that it will never be possible to build on these lands, but now this 218th article and, of course, after adjusting the municipal decree, they have simply fallen into a situation where they are forced to pay compensation for these unwalled buildings. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the law should provide a transitional option, namely the possibility that, in the same way as these walled buildings were in the spatial plans, they would also be erased from these spatial plans at the request of the owners. However, since we know that spatial plans are being prepared for two, three, perhaps even four years at some point, it is now clear that the transitional period in which these records are to be regulated should be adapted to that time. Otherwise, they are placed in an unequal position with other citizens and citizens [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'll be right with you. [[...]] They will have to pay, in accordance with municipal decrees, for something that is legally permissible but not legally enforceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, United List, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, chairman, and once again a nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for a law amending the building law certainly touches on one of the very important areas; it is an important resource used by local communities for their statutory tasks and also for development needs. At the same time, this is also in the municipalities receiving financial compensation, and it is also somehow the basis for them to receive additional resources from the state budget so that they can carry out all the statutory tasks. And interference in such an important area is always extremely difficult and we can also see that the existing building law has not exactly defined this area and therefore there are real problems in the implementation of this law in practice. Of course, the question arises whether today's bill and its content is sufficient, birekel, agreed and prepared solution for all problems of compensation for the use of building land. In fact, one of the key problems in this regard is that, when collecting data that are the basis for decisions on the award of such compensation, there are shortcomings mainly in spatial records. And that is the basic reason why problems arise, and even if we somehow extend the deadline to which the municipalities have to align their decisions with the new building law, of course, the whole type of deficiencies will still remain, due to poor spatial records, which are also open in advance. And one of the proposals that was also put forward in dealing with this law by the government was that the government law would try to regulate this area more precisely. For the compensation for the use of the building land will also be followed by the real estate law, which will compensate for this duty. And, of course, these records must be as accurate and as realistic as possible, so that there will be no problems with this donation in the future. We expect that this law will be truly ready to help establish records and will also help to update all these data, which must then be transmitted to the tax administration in order to be able to issue the relevant decisions. That is why, of course, we also join the parliamentary group in somehow joining the position of the committee, the parent committee, which decided to reject the proposed law and, of course, to try to resolve more extensive issues with the new law, and in particular the Constitutional Court's decision, which also has its own hands and we would, of course, like to catch these hands in some way. That is why we will support the proposal of the mother's labour body to reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u178	Thank you very much again. For a little while. Indeed, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not consider that the actual issue of the dosage for the use of the walled building land and, of course, the payment of this purpose, the compensation for the use of the building land, is properly regulated. In the Group of Members, we are also aware that by 31 March, each year's deadline for providing relevant data to the tax administration's tax administration's exposures to remuneration is here and that it will be impossible to actually include new revenue to municipalities on this segment during this year, because the actual situation as regards the establishment of records is not yet suitable for the performance of this task at this time. That this was also found by the Ministry of Finance in last November, when a planned complement to the municipalities referred to in this title was planned in order to be used, of course, by the intervention of the municipalities, they changed and included only the actual funds that could be collected for the use of the building land in the light of the built-up building plots. All these arguments and data suggest that this area really needs to be regulated. Of course, if there is no willingness to deal with this proposal to deal with another, but in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we appeal that we actually find the right solution, but here we see that any rush to include this year's fund-raising in terms of compensation for the use of building land for unbuilt land would be inappropriate and inappropriate and would actually lead to absurd situations in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Branko Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The LDS Group will support the proposal of the Home Working Committee to reject this law for two reasons. The first reason is that this law does not solve the underlying problem of the complications themselves in determining the liability for compensation for the use of building land. The second reason is that if this law had remained in the procedure, we could not have dealt with another law, namely another problem which had been imposed on the Government and the National Assembly by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which set a time limit for the National Assembly to bring the legal provision into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court by 11 April this year. Thus, it seems to us that the intention of the proposed law will, of course, be covered by the new law imposed by the committee to the government by 20. In February, a solution should cover all the issues that should be addressed by this proposal, which was submitted by colleague Rokavec, as well as other solutions that should be systematically regulated. That is why we support the decision of the Home Working Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u182	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Your Honor! The main solution and objectives of the proposer of this law are to extend the period within which municipalities have to align the decisions on the replacement of building land with decisions of Article 218 of the Construction Act. The fact is that most municipalities in our country are not adequately prepared to implement legislation in this area. Our assessment is that it is imperative to buy time in which the congregations can properly prepare and systematically resolve the problem that has arisen. In addition to the harmonisation of municipal decisions in this area, there is still an open issue of the valuation of non-walled building plots according to the market value of these plots in each area of the Republic of Slovenia. The decision of the Committee, which ordered the Government to submit by 20 February to the National Assembly its proposal for a law amending that law, which would also replace the issue of this law. However, since the government has failed to do so, in the SNS Group of Members, we will support the draft law tabled by Member Franci Rokavec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u184	Thank you for your word and good bye to everyone! We have been in a position many times before we have to adopt legislation to correct it, because we have to face problems in implementing it because of the lack of content of the regulation or because of short deadlines. I also know that you are Members of the ruling coalition repeatedly in a very unpleasant position because you are under pressure from the government, which too often wants to legislate important laws along the shortest possible route and with the least debate through the legislative process. More important than the law is the lack of explanation and the expected effects described. And we're dealing with it more unusually. Most of the time, not a year will pass since the adoption of any important law, when we are already considering novels or amendments. A number of novelties are proposed by coalition members, i.e. members of government parties, and many amendments are proposed even by the government itself, although it has previously argued that it has brought the laws into line professionally and politically up to the last detail. This law, which we are considering now, has been governmentally and coalitionly coordinated. However, everyday life, i.e. reality and practice, is often different from the theoretical principles and requirements foreseen by the drafter in the law and the legislative majority in the National Assembly has uncritically summarized and adopted. In practice, deadlines and procedures are also often written in such a way that they are impractical and, despite the fact that threats to penalties are very high, these laws cannot be implemented because they do not have a real basis. For the implementation of this law or of this provision, for which the proposed amendment is not sufficient for the municipalities to adopt decisions laying down the way and the amount of the remuneration for walled and non-walled building plots. If the municipalities actually want to implement laws in a quality manner and to be summarized in a municipal decree, they must have a quality basis and a quality database. In particular, spatial acts must be harmonised, the actual situation must be properly mapped, and the general use and specific purpose of the space and, of course, the updated situation in the land of the book should also be duly noted. We can certainly find that, when this law is enforced, they do not in practice carry or bear the burden of the congregation, but are also involved in state bodies which do not have their records regulated. Especially is the problem in the cadastre and the land book. I think that the difficulties in this work are greater than at the time of the creation of the cadastral or during the time of Mary Teresa. This amendment to the law proposed by a fellow Member is well founded and supported, as it brings time to state authorities and municipalities to prepare them for implementation in a qualitative manner. In our view, it is not permissible to go through a reasoned proposal from a Member by refusing to do so, especially since the Government has also responded quite late to the Constitutional Court's decision, and even now, as we see, it is already late with the amended bill. And just because the government has promised to prepare its proposal for the law, there can be no reason for such a law to be rejected. It is clear that the amendment proposed by the government will also be dealt with in time and will go further in an unusual way through the procedure, with a limited possibility of preparing a quality decision already limited and reduced. The proposal by the Infrastructure Committee to reject the amendment of the law will not be supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u185	We have therefore heard the views of the parliamentary groups and have also concluded with the presentation of the positions. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, 10 minutes after the conclusion of the discussion on agenda item 8. This concludes this agenda item. We'll move on to Treatment 5. Agenda items, this is the first defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Between us, I warmly welcome Minister of Defence, Mr Anton Grisold, and the Under-Secretary of State in the Ministry of Defence, Mr Miran Bogotaj. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members, with first-signed Anton Anderlic, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the text first to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I'd like to take the floor with the Secretary of Defense, Dr. Anton Grisold. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you, as you have heard, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Defence Act, which is actually a second phase of complementing the system's legislation in the field of national defence, which we have also announced in 2002. What are the objectives or objectives of our proposed changes? Firstly, complement the provisions, namely those related to our membership and operation in the collective defence system, as have been agreed with our NATO experts and experts in the last year. Secondly, to harmonise or improve certain provisions in the light of the experience gained in the enforcement of the system legislation applicable to the public sector in order to allow for the consideration of the characteristics of defence work, particularly in the military field. Thirdly, legal solutions that will allow for the start of the elimination of the human resources imbalances that were not covered by the amendments to the law in 2002. Fourthly, to allow for the continuation of defence reforms, in view of the findings in the 2002/2003 strategic review, which we sent to the National Security Council for a preliminary hearing, and in which the vision for the development of the Slovenian army is also covered by 2015. In view of these objectives, as the most important innovations in the draft law, I underline the following solutions. The control and defence of the airspace will be provided by the Slovenian military within the integrated air defence system of the North Atlantic Alliance. This also applies to defence, including the airspace of certain vital facilities which may be relevant to the defence of the State under certain conditions. If necessary, the Government will arrange procedures for the implementation of airspace control. We will include in this system our own radar and other military assets that we have at our disposal. In the framework of the Alliance, however, the required resources will be provided which we do not have. The Ministry of Defence will be the competent national authority in the field of security of classified data in information and telecommunications systems for defence purposes, cryptic protection, for protection against unwanted electromagnetic radiation and for carrying out radio spectrum for defence purposes. The powers of the military police will be aligned with those of the military police of other military organisations we meet in peacekeeping operations. For the same reasons, we also introduce military security authorities into the law, even though they are part of the internal military structure and formation. The mandate of the military is to extend the law so that it can help the police in an appropriate way to protect the state border, deep down, without police powers. This is a solution that has its basis between measures for effective entry into the European Union and which has been examined in the Interdepartmental Working Group and is also known by some comparable Member States of the European Union. The law sets out in more detail the solutions for the appointment of military personnel to formational duties, including the highest in the military, the positions of defence inspectors, the official evaluation of military personnel, and the conduct of military service in parts outside the military, such as military attachés and the like. It is mainly about complementing existing solutions in order to make these even clearer and even more comprehensive. With the aim of putting an end to the staffing imbalances in the permanent composition of the Slovenian army and preventing their further expansion, we propose a system-wide solution to end the working relationship of a military person in the defence area once he fulfils the conditions for obtaining the right to an old pension. Once the law is in force, the working relationship will end for some 60 people, a different solution, if we take into account the recognition of the bleached working age in the past or now additional insurance, probably not justified. There are about 200 disabled persons in the military and in the Ministry and we propose a one-time measure to apply the existing 404th Article of the Pension Insurance Act to women over 50 years of age and 47 years of age, so that, under the conditions laid down by the law, a maximum of 77 disabled persons who cannot be provided with adequate work in the Ministry and even less in the military can be retired. The costs of such a measure will be borne by defence expenditure. The proposed solution would reduce the number of people with disabilities, which would facilitate the resolution of their situation in the Ministry, especially if we take into account the solution in the system's part of the law, where we propose that disabled persons in the military can be temporarily deployed outside the formation of units while they are being sought for adequate work in relation to the remaining working capacity. For all other discrepancies arising in the permanent composition of the army due to age, inadequate personnel structures, given the size of the army, we estimate that they can be resolved in the medium to long term through other measures. This means that we are proposing significantly more rational solutions than those in 2001. This is also evident from the summary of the solutions in the introduction of the law used by other armies to address staff surpluses and non-conformities. Solutions relating to the acquisition of missing education, omissions from actions, as well as the temporary allocation to formational duties derogating from the system regime are the result of the experience gained in the past period in the implementation of system-wide public sector legislation and in the introduction of a new organisation and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The problem of lack of education in employees is solved in the draft law as it has been solved for other public servants. The introduction of fines instead of fines and certain other transitional provisions only means coordination with other existing rules. Dear Members and Members! We estimate that the carefully proposed amendments and amendments to the law are adopted before full membership in NATO, as this will facilitate our operation after June 2004. On the other hand, solutions that could hinder the further implementation of defence reforms will be exceeded. That is why we have done a number of coordinations in recent months, in particular with a view to really proposing only the necessary and most necessary changes and additions. The proposal for legislative amendments is in line with the relevant union in the work on status issues. I therefore propose, ladies and gentlemen, that you support and adopt the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The draft law will be defined by the parliamentary groups. First of all, Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will present to us the position of the Novi Slovenije Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u188	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Welcome government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act complements the existing law in particular with provisions on the employment, promotion and retirement of military personnel. It is part of a set of regulations which are necessary for the reorganization and completion of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the membership of Slovenia in NATO. The bill covers three sets. The first contains provisions allowing for cooperation with NATO. It refers to the protection of confidential data, the coordination of spatial acts and material duties. The second unit refers to the new organisation of the army. Its essence is to reduce the military composition and to allocate different powers between the General Staff and the operational level, where the role of the General Staff is strengthened. This provides that only professional soldiers may be assigned in peace to carry out their duties outside the country, in war or in the use of military forces in the collective defence system, as well as members of the military system. In peace, military reserves may also be sent to training outside the country. The system of promotion and the supplementary provisions on military discipline have also been reorganized. The third set deals with matters relating to the profession in the defence field and the conduct of military service. Military police. This may investigate offences in the military for which a fine or imprisonment is prescribed for up to three years. According to the new, the military may also cooperate with the police in the wider protection of the state border, within the state territory, if the government so decides. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on defence is necessary both for entering NATO and for the professionalization of the Slovenian army and its staffing structure. The introduction of the proposal also provides a comprehensive explanation and justification, which is why we will in principle support it in Novi Slovenija. But we must warn us that we find the law in many places loose and unclear. Let me tell you those cities that stand out the most. Slovenia has a coastline and its sea. It is true that the sea is controlled by Slovenian police. However, in protecting the sea and the coast, the Slovenian army must also have its task. They say we even have two vessels. The proposed text does not take account of the sea. But only the airspace is mentioned. The next thing that really bothers us in the Member State of New Slovenia is that it is not defined what secret information is. Nor does the bill refer to the law on the protection of classified information. In short, there is no definition of what classified information is and what the greater harmful consequences are. Here, too, we could refer to existing civil laws on classified, confidential data and their protection. The same was true of the definition of greater material injury. The next thing we know there is a lack of law is the recognition of diplomas and other evidence of foreign education. The proposal does not foresee the consequences of the Republic of Slovenia's entry into the EU and NATO. After entering NATO, this will automatically be recognised as civil spheres, as it has already been regulated in the EU. This is mainly about military schools. Special attention should also be paid in the law to the military police, which only has limited powers to investigate crimes in the military. So it's only relatively easier to commit crimes and crimes. The Defence Act will have to state explicitly what these crimes are of a military nature that weakens the defence of the State and define or list them in the criminal code and tell them whether they are being investigated by civil authorities or by military intelligence. The Slovenian army does not have its own military judiciary. There is nothing explicit about health care in the article on material and health care. We also have private health care and private health workers in our country. If necessary, these should also be included in defence or protection. In addition to the chapter of the criminal provision, the surrender of military secrecy is punishable by a fine of 500 thousand tolars. It is not defined at all what classified information is which secret information they mean by this. They're 500 grand or 100,000. I don't want anyone to think we have classified information for sale. Also, an article sanctioning the relationship of defence classified data, public publications should be supplemented by other media such as radio, television, the Internet. Other criminal provisions should probably be better defined. Apart from the illegal possession of weapons, there are no limited explosives that are weapons, but they are not incurable spheres. It should therefore be specified in this law how it is to store and handle, manufacture explosives and civilian explosives. We are also disturbed by the fact that the Defence Act and the Slovenian Security Intelligence Act only refer to regulations concerning the functioning of the SOVE. It is our view that it is necessary to specify exactly which articles of these regulations are covered by the Defence Act. With these comments, the New Slovenia Group wanted to draw attention to the imperfections of the law, which can be corrected by amendments, in order to reach a good defence law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well-known Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, which contributes to greater security of citizens of Slovenia and strengthens defence ability and readiness. At the same time, it is a logical consequence and a final phase of the transitional period, in which since 1994 it has gradually formed and transformed the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia as a stand-alone country and represents the final phase of its entry into NATO, including today's approval of the North Atlantic Treaty ratification law. With the entry into the peace partnership in 1994 and with other activities to achieve the strategic goal of national security, namely full membership in NATO, the process of reforming the Slovenian army through the various activities and processes of the development of individual generations and services, which are intended to do so, as well as the introduction of different war systems, which are designed and adapted. Until now, the Ministry of Defence has been reorganised, in particular that administrative work. The military composition of the Slovenian army has decreased from 47,000 to slightly less than 30,000 members and is shrinking or will continue to decline. During this time, military, territorial and operational commands were abolished, and the implementation of individual elements of military duties in peace was abandoned. And what is very important is that in October 2003 the implementation of the military deadline in peace ceased, which was welcomed in particular by young people. In this way, the project of the professional army with the contractual reserve of PROVIJ has also been implemented. So today we have 1,994 professional soldiers, 2,009 subordinates, 1,519 officers and 748 civilian employees. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we particularly welcomed the efforts of the Ministry of Defence, which has been active since 1975, to reduce educational disharmony in the Ministry of Defence and in particular in the Slovenian military. We are aware that education and knowledge are very important in the introduction of modern methods and techniques. Education and knowledge are important in enhancing security, as we must contribute to greater security ourselves and thus show our active relationship to security. In particular, we support and welcome education in other Member States, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Italy, the Netherlands, Canada, the Czech Republic, France, Luxembourg, Switzerland, etc. We support all human resources workers' activities towards the friendly and humane resolution of staff workers towards the resolution of the gap, including the lack of education for 289 permanent staff. We welcome all efforts to resolve the educational mismatches of soldiers in the military and in the United Nations Group of Members, we believe that there will be a need to settle them permanently once and for all, with the current changes and additions to the Defence Act, as we see in them the overcoming of any congestion that might be problematic in establishing a link with NATO's military organisations and with other information. We support all those fundamental objectives of amending and supplementing the law that complement those provisions of the law that allow for different reasons or put an employee in an unequal position in the defence field, in view of the new system laws governing the public sector, and those provisions that will allow the gradual elimination of the personnel mismatches in the Slovenian Army to be achieved by the relevant personnel structure of the military in accordance with the new structure of the military force. We understand that shorter routes are needed, but within the general rules, to resolve the human resources imbalances in the Slovenian Army. We hope, however, that individual solutions are well thought out, especially when we look at all these solutions in relation to people in other areas, which are thus being achieved and are experiencing major changes by entering the European Union. Let's say all those who work in customs. We support the legal provisions on the collection of personal data by developing those military records and collecting data on citizens who will voluntarily choose to serve military service or to carry out military service in the military reserve, as well as those provisions governing special protection of facilities where military objects will be defined, for energy transport and other purposes. In particular, we think it is very important to comply with the Data Protection Act. In particular, it seems important to us to protect classified data in telecommunications systems used for defence purposes and to connect with NATO authorities. We welcome the defined competences of the Ministry to carry out and coordinate the use of radio frequencies aimed at the need for security, the defence of the country and the protection against natural and other disasters, as well as the provision of cryptographic protection. In particular, we consider important provisions governing the sale, import, export and transit of military weapons and equipment in such a way as to require a special permit from the Ministry to carry out individual transactions in respect of such goods. Equally important is the provision of a law governing the appointment, discharge of commanders or the appointment of formational duties in the military, including defence inspectors, in such a way as to directly provide that the military is not completed on the basis of public or internal calls. We believe that the role of the military police will need to be further developed and developed. We support the career path system of military personnel, which also takes into account the planned development of military and other capabilities of individuals to carry out formational duties. We are somewhat reserved for the provision that a successfully completed school for officers or officers is considered to have passed the professional administrative examination prescribed for public servants, and that no military personnel or candidates for professional work in the military do not perform this examination. We are equally somewhat reserved for the provision by which an individual must obtain the missing education in accordance with the education contract or educational programme, which provides that the date was by 14.1.2009 at the latest, in particular because we do not know how and how education has been carried out so far. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we are particularly in favour of those provisions of the law relating to air space control and defence, intelligence security activities, military police and the handling of specific issues relating to defence work, as these will not have any additional financial implications in the State budget. Unfortunately, these financial consequences are slightly more present in particular in those provisions that eliminate or reduce staff mismatches. The overall financial implications of this law's election in the first year of implementation will be SIT 197.7 million, which is one of the price of transition, I apologize for the price of joining NATO. We will support the law and consider it a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary of State and Undersecretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we estimate that it is right to amend the Defence Act. Today we have ratified the Treaty of Accession to the North Atlantic NATO Alliance. We have stressed that we want European and transatlantic connections, because we share a common cultural and historical space and a way of life. In doing so, we have stressed that they have done much in the area of defence to ensure that we are on track to meet the standards required by this international organisation and our defence needs. It has been shown that certain provisions relating to connectivity with the NATO military organisations need to be complemented by fulfilling the obligations arising from this membership prior to joining NATO. In the process of adapting then to the standards and professionalization of the Slovenian army, with the war composition of the Slovenian army shrinking significantly and diminishing further, there has also been considerable imbalances, command structure, too many officers and subordinates who do not meet the educational criteria. We believe that the current situation is also a result of incorrect military recruitment in recent years, since independence. With regard to the content of the other articles of the law, we still have some open questions and concerns that we will continue to examine thoroughly and together with the coalition partners, the other parties in the coalition, to achieve unification and jointly prepare the necessary amendments. It is mainly questions, as we understand today, which depart from some of the conditions that apply to other public servants, and we judge that there should not be too many differences in rights and benefits. Today we will support the law as suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Defence Act, the first consideration. We have before us a proposal for a law that represents a second phase of changes to the system's defence legislation. In Slovenia we have seen a lot of fundamental reforms of the defence system in recent years.The expected objective of these reforms is a defence system that will be both rational and modern and, of course, effective. Soon the year will come when Slovenian citizens and citizens will be defined by a convincing majority to enter NATO. Before full membership in NATO, expected on 2 April this year, Slovenia must fulfil certain tasks and obligations. The bill regulates the ways and their implementation. We have examined the draft law and the reasons given by the proposer in the parliamentary group. In accordance with its assessment, the main objectives of the present law can be included in the three framework sets. To enable the fulfilment of obligations arising from full membership in NATO and to supplement those provisions which in the existing dictatorship do not allow for the necessary connectivity with the military organisations of NATO members. Harmonise the situation of defence workers, taking into account the new system laws governing the situation of workers in the public sector. And thirdly, by law, to enable the elimination of personnel mismatches in the permanent composition of the Slovenian army. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we assess that it is reasonable to seek to establish a military organisation that is or will be organised and trained in a way that will enable such military defence of the country and also participate in the collective defence system. We expect further excellent work in the field of protection and rescue. We also expect local and national development, as each country's defence area has been and will be a generator of research and applications of discoveries and inventions. Today we voted on the law on the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. That we voted in favour of the Slovenian voters who showed their will at the referendum on Slovenia's entry into NATO. With this decision, we have also committed ourselves to meeting the obligations we have undertaken on this occasion. The SLS Group will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u196	Thank you and a nice hello. Even in the LDS Group, of course, we have examined the law thoroughly and note that the fact that we will almost soon become equal members of the NATO Alliance is one of the main conditions for the law to be supplemented and amended, but not the only one that we have taken some steps towards reorganising the Slovenian army ourselves. We have identified ourselves as a professional army and have taken some other steps that need to be taken in the further modernisation of the Slovenian army with the aim of increasing efficiency. In the LDS Group, we support all solutions related to this change of law. However, there are certain concerns mainly about how to resolve those human resources problems that are present in the Slovenian army and which we have not resolved with the changes of 2001 and will in some way need to be resolved. However, these concerns that have arisen within the parliamentary group are not such as to prevent Members and Members of the law from supporting in the first reading and, of course, together with coalition partners, as well as clarifying to the government whether all the solutions, in particular those I have pointed out, are the only ones. In the LDS Group, we also took note of the proposal made by the Association of Veterans of the War on Slovenia, which announced the amendment proposal to this law, regarding the resolution of some open problems relating to members of the permanent and military composition of territorial defence, the former territorial defence, and propose some retroactive solutions to those problems that have not been resolved in the first years of our independence. In the parliamentary group, we propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence in particular, also examine this proposal thoroughly, by adopting in the second reading a law that will be acceptable to all of us and will not expose any group to a privileged position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. The proposal added to the law on defence actually came before us extreme, the last moment before entering NATO. The fact is that many things need to be corrected and many things need to be complemented. This law regulates some of these matters, in particular the protection of airspace, which should be together with the Member States of the Next Pact, although in the Slovenian National Party we miss a more precise completion of this mode of protection. We are convinced that our way of security is only possible with a developed missile system, not with the air force that is supposed to be stationed in Slovenia. The protection of the sea is also questionable here. The protection of the sea is somehow left to the police forces that we know and see how they deal with that boat that's more dry than in the water, and it's certainly not an amphibious vehicle. It is also interesting to work abroad. We agree that professional soldiers should work abroad, in accordance with our own rules and regulations, because this is the way the professional army does. We find the early retirement measure interesting or good, since it will certainly reduce the burden of the budget. Simply put, a significantly higher cost is employment than pension payments. Similarly, in the Slovenian National Party, we would extend this measure of early retirement to others, because according to our data, there are some 400 people in the Slovenian Army and in the Ministry of Employment who would necessarily have to retire or because of incompetence or mistakes or something like that. In this way, we would also get rid of all those incompetent and undisciplined, for whom we would suggest that the law also introduce the withdrawal of rank and honorary leave from the military, by denying it to the pension, as is the case with the United States Army. As far as the issue of military secrecy is concerned, we have already heard what it makes sense to know that in fact the largest military secrecy in the Republic of Slovenia costs 500 000 tolars. I know quite a few privates who would love to pay 500 grand just so they could brag about buying one military secret. I don't think that's enough. For the issue of military secrecy, a serious state lays down a prison sentence, and I think it would make sense for the Minister of Defence to propose an amendment to the law, criminal law, and to introduce inward also an indent with the issue of military secrecy. I'm sure there's something missing. There is a museum missing to preserve the military or military heritage of the Slovenian State and of the Slovenian people. We also did not see anywhere that the minister would take the publishing activity into account. The publishing activity is an important force. And when entering the wide range of countries of NATO and the European Union, we can boast of many Slovenians. But unfortunately we won't have to brag about anything. We don't have a book to boast about. We don't have any smart publications to distribute anything like this, or we don't even have the smallest military museum. Every country has one. Bigger countries have it in every city. We don't have anything. We'd rather destroy old things and throw them into waste than keep them as craftsmen. After all, it is the cultural and technical heritage of our country and our nation. I also miss the idea of strategic weapons research in connection with universities and research institutions. It is a number of projects that the Ministry could carry out and implement. This may be in the field of theoretical physics, although it sounds a little strange, but today these studies are going in America and Russia mainly in this direction. One of the inventions of this research is the underwater torpedo, which actually flies at 300 kilometers per hour, under water, of course. And also our scientists and people with open minds and something in their heads could do something like that. After all, one of the most insidious mines in the last period, PAM 3, was also made by Slovenian. And one more thing at the end. The new Slovenian, and this identifying, should be marked by the Slovenian army. The marks he has, including that lip leaf on his shoulders and on his cheeks, are essentially a summary of the sign of the Ustasha legion from World War II. They had such a sticky leaf. And they then, because they couldn't bring him into the army, they introduced him as the subunit of their kuna, that the money unit is kuna, the smaller unit is lipa. I think we are very stepmotherly and very nonchalant and ignorant of these markings and acts. And also to the markings of special forces, which, in fact, cause a lot of ridicule, instead of causing fear and fear as military markings. The uniform of the company of honor is also questionable. Today's uniforms remind us of "Sturmabteilung" units, SA departments from World War II and just before it. However, we do have the opportunity to take this honorary uniform after, say, one very Slovenian matter, after the uniform of the unit of the Celje regiment from the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, which had the only white skirts, and from which also goes the folk song "When I wear a white, sabre-shaped, shotgun-sanded skirt". And yet we don't do that. Maybe one more thing, maybe a little back. Several members of the permanent composition of the territorial defence are complaining about the different ways in which they may retire, as some have had. Approximately 131 former members of JLA retired by having 25 years of male and 20 years of female retirement. And yet they got a pension of 85%. I think we should do something here, too. It is our people who once fought on our side, now we have forgotten them, we rise to honor the soldiers of other countries, we do not rise up to honor the Slovenian soldiers who died. Now the last one recently died fighting for the independence of Slovenia, and we have done nothing. Otherwise, in principle, we will support the law. I'm sure we're going to table an amendment, but I don't think any conversation with the minister would be too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We're changing the law after a bad two years. In 2002, when the last changes were made due to coalition disagreements, the changes were not made sufficiently. These changes are supposed to be done now. All right. The fundamental objectives of the amendment and the amendment of the proposed law are: to complement those provisions that do not yet provide sufficient connectivity with the military structures of the Member States of NATO or cause difficulties in the functioning of the Slovenian Army. The second fundamental objective of the amendments is to supplement or amend those provisions of the law which allow different interpretations or place workers in an unequal position in the defence field under new system laws governing the public sector. And the third fundamental objective of the amendments and the addition of the proposed law is to legislate solutions that will allow the gradual elimination of the staffing differences in the Slovenian Army in order to complete the formation of the military with the appropriate staffing structure in relation to the new force structure. The law is intended to define the collection of personal data within the military record of citizens who will voluntarily choose to serve military service or to perform military service in the reserve. The additional provisions are also intended to provide for the protection of military facilities of particular importance for the defence and the tasks of the military, which has proved to be unregulated in the past. It will be determined that the airspace controls and protects the military in accordance with plans, regulations and international treaties, ensuring that the control and defence of the airspace of the Republic of Slovenia is compatible with the system known by the members of the Alliance. Preventive tasks of anti-intelligence protection of military commanders, units and institutions will be identified. The tasks of the military police should be better regulated, and secret data should be protected in information and telecommunications systems used for defence purposes and for liaison with NATO authorities. The scope of the sale of imports, exports and transits of military weapons and equipment and sanctions for violators should be better regulated. In order to implement the Law on Public Servants, the provisions governing the appointment and discharge of commanders or the appointment to formational duties in the military, including defence inspectors, should be supplemented. The changes are expected to allow a gradual resolution of the staffing imbalances, mainly due to changes in the system, the completion of reductions in the military composition and changes in the structure of the force in 2002. The rights and obligations of defence workers who do not have adequate education should also be regulated. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to draw attention to a problem we have not yet solved in Slovenia. Something the predecessor said about it in front of me. These are people employed in the permanent composition of the territorial defence of the Republic of Slovenia, who were carriers of defence training and in 1991 the organizers of resistance to war against the brutal aggression of the Yugoslav People's Army in Slovenia. These people are in an unequal position with regard to those members who have crossed from the Yugoslav human army, who have all along had an increase. Such retirement allowed them the second paragraph of Article 108 of the Defence Act. According to the data, 131 former members of the Yugoslav People's Army are expected to retire, which is not disputed. On the other hand, they did not have a permanent composition of territorial defence. It is true that this was not required at the time, as they did not defend their countries because of ratings. Now certainly is the time when the state must repay itself for this unselfish act of its own. This is especially important now that we have to save people who do not have adequate education. However, they conquered and conquered the Republic of Slovenia. It would therefore be fair to resolve this problem in a changing law. The employees and permanent compositions of the territorial defence of the Republic of Slovenia are the only cases in the former republic of the former Yugoslavia, which do not have a recognised age with an increase. In order to continue the procedure, it will be necessary to supplement the law accordingly with this problem. Therefore, the Slovenian Democrats will open the law in the first reading and allow for the possibility of complementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u201	Thank you very much. And also the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, presented by Mr Igor Štemberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Young Slovenia we are pleased to accompany the process of professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, because we strongly support it. Among the changes brought about by the process of professionalization is the new law on defence, which we are dealing with today, which brings along many other changes to which we are critical to a certain extent. Slovenian citizens decided to enter the NATO Federation at the referendum, so according to the applicants it is necessary to supplement in law those provisions which do not yet provide sufficient connectivity with the NATO military organisations, of course before the full membership of our country in the alliance. These amendments to the law in the Young Slovenia Party are not disputed, as they are the result of a referendum decision. As necessary, we also assess the additions to those provisions that have now allowed different interpretations and put defence workers in an unequal position according to the new system laws governing the public sector, as well as the changes to the law that will eliminate the personnel mismatches in the Slovenian military and allow for the provision of an adequate staffing structure according to the new structure of the professional military forces. In view of the government's recent flexibility to pressure the United States of America to use Slovenian airspace for overflights on its way to military action in Iraq, we are assessing provisions on extending the government's power to use Slovenian airspace by the allies for much too loose. While we do not see any difficulty in using our airspace in actions fully supported by NATO members or under the mandate of the United Nations, we know that there will certainly be no such ones among them, which will at least remind us of the US attack on Iraq. We therefore believe that these matters must be clearly defined in the law, since, otherwise, it gives the government the opportunity to decide on extremely important military and foreign policy decisions, which would certainly not be supported by such ease as they receive in government decision-making. The control and defence of Slovenia's airspace by allied countries is basically rational and welcome, but what can quickly only mean an excuse for flights for other purposes, which Slovenia will only be difficult to control. In the first reading of the bill, Members of the Young Slovenia Party will be supported in anticipation of taking into account our comments on the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. This is followed by a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, I invite Mrs Tisovic to the floor. Would you like another word, Mrs. Ana Marija Tisovic? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Pohorec? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Kangler? [[He's not here.]] Mr. Noble? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jerovšek? [[He's not here.]] Mag. You want a word with me? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, Mr. Secretary. In essence, I would have a debate on the issue of education of workers in the Slovenian military, in particular those who have not fulfilled the obligations of these education contracts. Commitments were made at the start of education, even though they did not fulfil the obligation, that, of course, you also eased their conditions or extended the time in which they had to meet those obligations, of course they did not meet them. It would be very embarrassing if such workers were given no priority, either in terms of social security or something like that. For they would have acted disproportionately toward those who had fulfilled their obligations. I want to know how you're going to solve these things. Are the obligations clauses clear? What are the consequences? Have any errors been made at the outset in the conclusion of these obligations or contractual arrangements? This is an important question, for it can shed a bad light on further procedures. I would like to ask you to explain to us in the National Assembly, but also to the Slovenian public, that there will be no misunderstandings, misunderstandings, and that this will no longer open up as unresolved, or as a thing that will keep getting warm. Please, this would be considered an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I invite the Minister to the floor. There are no other people who have been reported to speak. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. So, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I thank you for your express support for the adoption of this law. However, in view of the views expressed by the groups in question, I would like to clarify some things further. First of all, as I said in the introduction, this law is only an emergency supplement because most of the systemic solutions in the field of national defence were already adopted in 2002. So, emergency supplements. One part of the emergency supplements relates to the collective defence system and we held talks from the invitation of Slovenia to Prague, November 2002, until the end of December 2003. Thus, these things could not have been systematically regulated and proposed in the form of a law. The second part, of course, relates to learning about the strategic review of defence, which was also completed at the end of December 2003, and which has been very precise, according to the elements of the defence system, gave answers to where we are through the implementation of defence reforms. The Defence Act refers to the law on classified information, which is now in force. And this law on classified information completely regulates the problem of classified data and there is no obstacle, for example, to any or any defence activity. The same applies to explosives also regulated by a special explosive law. We regulate only military weapons and mine explosives in this law. Educational differences due to their large scale - we have 6,400 employees in the Slovenian army, of which 1,300 do not have the appropriate education. I'd like to say that there was an individual interview last year with 550 people. We talked to them individually. And most of them have already been enrolled and have already been enrolled and enrolled in various educational institutions and also wants to, she has expressed her willingness to complete the schooling and thus get an appropriate education. For those of you who - if I remember 17 - have not expressed this interest in education, we are applying the solutions you know. So there is no progress and there are some other things that are mentioned in the bill. So, this is a large group of people, and I can assure you, honourable Members, that we have been very much alone since 2001 and have also studied with the help of external institutions the possibilities of resolving these inconsistencies. By the way, let me say that some other comparable countries have significantly greater problems because they have larger systems than we have. That is why we decided to resolve this matter, namely, human resources mismatches, one step at a time. The positive light, if I say so, has also come from NATO liaison experts who, of course, know the experiences of different countries within the NATO and also the European Union, which also solve similar or related human resources mismatches. This is not just about education, it is also about age and so on. So, we are studying the request of the Council of Officers, we are very carefully studying, and I would like to say immediately that the initiative is absolutely legitimate, that at the Ministry of Defence we are aware of the importance of the participation of members of the permanent and military composition of the territorial defence in the year 1991, and in particular members of the manoeuvre structure of national protection. However, I would now like to point out, or point out, that this proposal departs from the purposes or from the key sources of this law, so that we can still think about it and try to find a common solution. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u207	Thank you very much. May I find that the time envisaged for the debate has not yet expired, so I ask if anyone would like to discuss any further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I therefore conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the 10 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 8. I'm breaking this agenda. I thank the Minister and the Under-Secretary of State very much for their cooperation. And we're going to wait a minute for government representatives to join us for the next item on the agenda, because we're going to move to the last item on the agenda today, that's on the 8th. DOCTOR, THIS IS THE FIRST PROPOSAL FOR A AMENDMENT LAW AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION. Between us, I very much welcome Mrs Milojka Kolar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Master Janez Drobnik. With regard to this law, a group of 11 Members with their first signed Master Andrey Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. First, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to the draft law to further explain the bill. My word, Mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u208	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Representatives or government representatives! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates that parents have the right and duty to maintain, educate and raise their children. In particular, maintenance, although not limited to it, also stresses the obligation to invest in the benefit of children of material resources. Since the burden of maintaining children is left to society and even imposes the burden on parents, it is also their responsibility to provide them with the necessary care and assistance. Accordingly, the Constitution provides that the State shall protect the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and shall create the necessary conditions. Article 53 of the Constitution provides for this. The State provides for conditions that enable parents to decide on the birth of their children, as is true in the Constitution, and that children enjoy special protection and care. It is therefore incompatible with those constitutional provisions and the principle of the social state that a parent who, from that part of the funds intended for the survival of children or the minimum of living, contributes at the same time to social needs. Therefore, the necessary maintenance costs must be fully exempt from taxation. That is also the case with the Constitutional Court, which has been pronounced with regard to the provisions of the Income Act. It is high time that the unconstitutional status of the Income Act is abolished, that this unconstitutional state of the Income Act is immediately eliminated. So far, there has been no need for understanding to harmonise this constitutional provision, which is awaiting arrangements for a long seven years, which is certainly a disgrace to the legal system, to the National Assembly, and in particular to the Government, which has postponed the proposal for a Constitutional Court decision and a constitutional provision for a series of years. We have therefore given the initiative - a group of signatories - and have presented solutions that respect the constitutional provision, the resolution on family policy in the Republic of Slovenia, the principle of solidarity and the principle of progressive relief for families with multiple members. The government and the coalition are clearly blind to the plight of families who have felt the unconstitutional state on their skin and have worn it for many years. The ruling coalition is very different when it comes to implementing constitutional provisions. As far as our children and citizens are concerned, they postpone it when it comes to foreign citizens, trying to establish a priority, forcefully and contrary to the rules of procedure or constitution. The proposed law, prepared by the signatories and fully supported in New Slovenia, which we have also tabled two years ago, exempts from taxation that part of the income of individual citizens and citizens with children, which means the most necessary means of child survival, i.e. to the extent of the minimum cost of living or the existential minimum for children. This is essentially the decision of the Constitutional Court. This decision is also a fundamental issue of justice in society.If we have decided on the principle of solidarity and reciprocity, then it is necessary for those who have children or more children to recognise the additional benefits and evaluate their contribution to the survival, upbringing and training of citizens, who eventually become taxpayers, operators of public interest and more. This is the basic civilisation principle of modern society. In New Slovenia, we have made it clear that there is a need to harmonise an unconstitutional law, but not in a way that reduces benefits for many families, but that this status must at least be maintained. This is the true principle of justice that we want to follow in New Slovenia. In Slovenia we should particularly support such solutions because we are in demographic decline. Only 17,500 children were regulated in Slovenia in the last year. The Constitutional Court does not resort to progressive relief. This is permissible in the light of the policy that each political party has on this issue. We are in favour of it, so we have also tabled our own law and presented a scale comparable to other systems and whose objectives are consistent with family and social policy. We have invested because we want to maintain justice and contribute to the well-being of the development of our community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I would like to invite a representative of the government, Mrs Milojka Kolar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u210	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Members and Members. I would like to present the Government's opinion on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, for the first reading submitted by the Members with the first-signed magi. Janez Petty Officer. That draft law refers to Article 10 of the Income Act, which provides for a special relief for dependent family members, resulting from a decision of the Constitutional Court, which in this respect decided that the law is inconsistent with the Constitution in this part and that it is necessary to define that parents have a minimum of living life, or minimum cost, as survival for tax relief. Therefore, in accordance with the proposal for that law and in view of the fact that the Government has found that a comprehensive change of income is necessary, it has submitted to this National Assembly a proposal for an Income Act at the end of December which regulates all the constitutional decisions that have been adopted in respect of the Income Act so far by the Constitutional Court and resolves them in an appropriate and appropriate manner. If the amendments to this law were taken into account in Article 10, there would be a situation in which they could not apply relief to a child with moderate weight and severe disturbance in physical and mental development. Then, at the same time, this law would also be inoperable, since it is also necessary to determine in more detail the amount of this amount of living minimum in order to make it possible to enforce the law or relief at all. In the light of everything said, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u211	Thank you very much. They will present to us the views of the parliamentary group on the draft law. First of all, I invite you to the word "magic." Janez Drobnič, who will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. So in the New Slovenia Group, we have decided to support this text for two reasons or that we have given this initiative at all because there has been no timely response to this decision by the Constitutional Court, which must wait so long for our response. This initiative was implemented exactly two years ago, of course, but we know which one. It was a proposal by Mr Puck, who then, I think, withdrew because he was in his own way offensive and shameful, because in fact, the existing facilities available to families with multiple children had been reduced. Such an intervention is not appropriate, of course, and that proposal has only taken into account this basic decision of the Constitutional Court that it is necessary for any child to provide relief at the level of this minimum of living. However, I have already explained the reasons in the presentation as a proposaler, as the first-signed drafter of the law. The second reason, therefore, is that, in addition to the timely fact that the solutions offered so far are not correct, but also in the text of the law, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is making, the position has not changed. This same principle - basic relief of the minimum cost of living for a child - yes, I reach progressiveity for families with multiple children - no. Thus, the proposal proposed by the government waiting for consideration would go back to the harm of numerous families. This is not the right solution for us. Slovenia is in this demographic decline and it is also necessary to adopt a law that will follow these objectives in order to maintain at least the number of citizens and to stop the decline of births. We are aware that only the economic instruments of these objectives cannot be achieved, this has also been shown in some other countries, but these are key to achieving the objectives. In addition to these measures, which we are currently considering, we should certainly show greater general affection for the family and the child in our country. In Slovenia, unfortunately, there are other values on the march, as well as social practices are at odds. Look what's going on with the school system. The so-called free primary education is changing into something else, where it is necessary to pay textbooks, school supplies, papers and other things, not to mention, to pay for materials, books, schools in nature. In addition, we have comparisons of Slovenia with the exemplary, social and family policies that have stopped this trend. These are Scandinavian countries. As I have already said, not only economically, but also to emphasize this lifestyle that is interesting to many. It is not enough, my fellow Members and colleagues, in particular, to refer to you from the ruling waiting list to confirm your views in individual resolutions, such as the resolution on family policy. Action must also be taken. If the resolution on family policy states that we will have such a coherent policy that will stimulate larger families and has been adopted, then this must also be done with action. However, the first act is to adopt the Income Act in such a way that this resolution, the resolution principles, are in fact fulfilled. That's it. So this law implements the oldest unexecuted decision of the Constitutional Court. It has taken seven years to deal with it and it is not yet appropriate for the government and probably the ruling coalition to correct it, because the system law you are offering - the question of what it will be like. According to our views, we expect and anticipate what it will be like, and it will not be for the benefit of more families. This is not just a family issue, it is not just a demographic issue, it is also an economic and national issue. This must be seriously pictured by Slovenia as well as how it will continue to live within the European Union. With migration alone or migration to address this deficit, this will certainly not be resolved well and will not have a good impact. We therefore propose that this law be passed and then we have implemented this decision of the Constitutional Court, which unfortunately has been waiting too long in drawers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u214	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, let me say that we will not support the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. While we are aware of the good intentions of the bill's proponents who wish to implement the applicable Income Act by amending Article 10 of the Income Act of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia, under which the provisions of Article 10 of the Income Act are incompatible with the Constitution, unless they are wholly exempt from taxation of those amounts which the parent must devote to the survival of his child in order to ensure the minimum of living life. Our reservations to the proposed amendments and additions to the Income Act are both technical and substantive. With regard to the technical reservation, it can be found that the proposed law, which was tabled for consideration and adoption on 27 February 2002, in terms of the financial implications for the debtors and for the budget is a particularly important decision with allowances for the children, since the anger of the implementation of that decision by the Constitutional Court is necessary to intervene in the relief system. The implementation of the increase in child relief and the realisation of the global burden in terms of the financial consequences of the law, both on the debtor and on the budget, require a complex amendment of the law, as they constitute a significant loss of income, which cannot be replaced only by resources within the income. It will therefore be necessary to extend the tax base within the income system to income that is not now taxed or taxed to a lesser extent, which is already interfering with a deeper substantive amendment of the law in its entirety. When defining the amendments to those amendments and supplementing the Income Act, it should also be pointed out that the Government has already drawn up a proposal for a new Income Act since the proposed Act is already in the legislative procedure from 31 December 2003. That proposal also implements the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia concerning child benefits in such a way that the minimum cost of living of the child is taken into account as a basis for determining the amount of relief. We expect that the legislative procedure for the adoption of the new law will be completed within the prescribed time limit and the law will apply from 1.1.2005 onward. As a result of all the amendments and additions to the Income Act tabled by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will not support today's meeting because of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act submitted by the Group of Members with the first Master of the Drobnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! When fellow Members propose a law in the procedure by which they attempt to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision, it is necessary to see a positive attitude in such a move from the principle of some Member's solidarity. And we see her like that. In fact, fellow Members of Parliament have tried to cover a void that either the government or other possible law-makers have failed to enforce in respect of one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court which has a very long beard, and speaks of a matter that relates to the amount that parents should devote to the survival of their child, that it is guaranteed a minimum of life. At that time, a number of other decisions of the Constitutional Court, which also touch on the Income Act, have been accumulated. And it is good because we know Members that we have before us or that we can already have a comprehensive system law on amending the Income Act on our seats, which is also trying to resolve this issue. If today the National Assembly does not support this law largely, and the fact that the government does not support it, we can assume that this will not be done, but it is now an opportunity to say in principle how income legislation should be part of family policy. And the very decision of the Constitutional Court, although short, is very clear that it challenges us to answer that question. According to the Slovenian People's Party, income legislation is also part of family policy. Fertility in Slovenia steadily declines, natural growth is negative. Slovenians are no longer being restored as a population, but we are getting older. The problem is growing in front of our eyes, and therefore the policy on this issue must not be indifferent. The fate of the Slovenian people can only be cared for by us, only by Slovenians. We must strive to make the social climate positive until the decision is made for the child. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure that parents are able to decide on the birth of their children. This is Article 55 of the Constitution. The work and resources we invest in children are, in fact, an investment that will benefit the whole society in the future. All parents strive to make the best possible living possible for our children and to provide them with the best possible care possible. We are aware that it is not only through the measures of the social state of birth that the country is not able to buy, as compared to what may be unusual, but the country must ensure that the change in the standard of living due to the number of children does not become an important factor in decision-making for the child. And that's exactly what the Constitutional Court's decision is about. Statistical data from European countries clearly show a positive correlation between the level of development of family policy and the rate of birth, with the majority of these countries implementing an important part of family policy also through tax policy, in addition to social, housing and others. Tax reliefs play an important role in this regard and work in one direction or another. The decision for the family or its extension shall be facilitated or made more difficult. It is also important to realize that with the number of children, income per family member falls. The progressiveness of tax relief, and this is what this is about, ensures that children are taken into account as a factor in determining the economic situation of the debtor and the related principle of horizontal equality, which requires that the debtors pay approximately the same high taxes in a similar economic situation. However, with sufficient progressive tax reliefs for children, it is ensured that those in comparable economic situations - comparable professions, employment, wages - do not lower the standard of living so strongly as to make it an important factor or obstacle to decision-making for children. We thus understand the decision of the Constitutional Court. The progressive tax rate of non-taxable minimum child living costs ensures the coordinated functioning of tax benefits for families with higher incomes and a child allowance for families with lower incomes. This means that the combined impact of both factors in all families with the same number of children is the same, irrespective of the income of these families. And it is precisely because of the dependency on income that tax reliefs operate that is significantly more stimulating than direct transfers. We're pretty sure that's the way it is. The positive dependence on income relief is an additional incentive for individual efforts, while usually the negative link between income income and income income, for example, lower income, more from the budget, good incentives for concealing income or professional efforts for greater success, and this, in our opinion, certainly does not encourage. In our view, there is still a real possibility that, in the context of amendments to the Income Law, the legislator will consider the concept of family income, which means that families with equally high common incomes will pay roughly the same high income regardless of the structure of these incomes. Today, in the same incomes, families in which only one parent earns all income pay substantially more income than the family in which each parent earns half of that income. This seems unfair in terms of justice. Family income, however, would ensure that families in which one parent chooses to work shorter hours would not pay more income than the families in which both parents are employed. Colleagues, when proposing this Income Act, of course, did not think about all these elements. This is a highly complex matter and undoubtedly requires some substantial changes in the very concept of this law. But the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will continue to support the stimulating taxation of the income of natural persons, either in this law or most likely in the government law coming into the procedure in the coming months, and here we are devoting special treatment to families with the arguments I have just stated. And we estimate that the National Assembly will support a solution towards progressive relief for the maintenance of a family member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented to us by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u218	Your Honors are here! The resolution on family policy requires both state institutions and individuals and all those dealing with the family, one and the same result or content, that is to create a country that will be friendly to the family. I stress once again, to create a country that will be friendly to the family. Thus, the country, which will be in all its elements, i.e. from various measures, encouraging or all others, will allow for the normal development of the Slovenian family. The speakers in front of me correctly concluded that we can identify three features in the family area for Slovenia, but none of them are good for us, and we cannot boast at home or abroad. First of all, the number of births is dropping. Secondly, the population is growing old and third, increasing or ever stronger is that socially endangered class of citizens and citizens and thus Slovenian families. In the National Party, we assess that the task is both legislative and executive to enable all these three elements or indicators to improve and show the way forward. So Slovenia would become a society where they are born, and a society that does not only show that segment of population ageing. According to the Slovenian National Party’s assessment, the social note, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act, is, of course, the easiest to provide or enforce through fiscal measures. On the other hand, also through so-called direct transfers. Which of these two measures, whether policy as a legislative branch of government, is more appropriate, I will not go down. However, the fact is that both measures are still necessary and that both measures should be encouraged and increased in our country. Unfortunately, it is around the law that is currently being debated, namely the law on changes and additions to the Income Act, that the government is opposed to the proposed solution in this country. Unfortunately, also a large part of Slovenian policy and political parties in the framework of the National Assembly opposes the proposed solutions, which, according to our assessment, would show up in an increased number of births, changing the trend of the population, and possibly even reducing the socially endangered population or family composition in our country. The drafter initially said that when adopting the law or drafting the law, it was based on a decision of the Constitutional Court. He pointed out that it was the oldest decision of the Constitutional Court in 1996. Therefore, we can be certain and all those who have little credibility must be assured that the response of the Slovenian government to the decisions of the Constitutional Court is zero in normal cases. Unfortunately, however, the reaction of the Slovenian government to the Slovenian policy towards decisions which have a political foretaste is, of course, exceptional. I do not want to, in connection with this law, which deals with the work of the Slovenian population, about the good Slovenian population, to refer to the issue of deleted, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately, immediately began writing and with measures to implement the Constitutional Court decision. Less than a year ago, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia needed to lead to a quasi-solution solution - when the speech was deleted. In the case of the talk about the Slovenian family, where the talk is primarily about those who are most Tangled by this law, i.e. socially endangered families, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not been prepared to find a marriage solution for eight years. And when Member Drobnic finds her, the government of the Republic of Slovenia says, "No, this is unacceptable to us." Because, as always, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of its mistakes, it says: we will correct the matter more comprehensively in a so-called roof or system law - however you prefer it. According to my assessment, this is, of course, an incredible transfer by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the transfer by those Members who will not support the legislative proposal. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia clearly does not seek to monitor all decisions of the Constitutional Court equally. Far from it. However, I cannot understand in any way the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the request of one political organisation, the United List, or others, the Liberal Democracy, is making such selection between the decisions of the Constitutional Court and trying to find, I stress once again, a quasi-exempt solution for the deleted, while Slovenian citizens and decisions that speak for the benefit of Slovenian citizens and - which is of course of the least importance - would have hundreds of times less financial effects on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and ignore eight years. Where are those human rights fighters now, those who have met with the word of human rights keepers before or after each performance in recent months. They brand themselves the greatest honest people in our society. They are not sitting or sitting in Parliament today, either, for the most part. Why? Because they don't care. If anyone else hopes to mark himself a populism for someone who disagrees with government policy, they will be able to attribute today’s outcome to this national assembly. As far as the law is concerned in the Slovenian National Party, of course, we will support the law's desire. We sincerely hope that the proposal will find a sufficient number of support between Members and Members, not only to say what we think about the Constitutional Court's decision, that they must be respected, but that all decisions must be respected on the basis of the order of time, and not by any means that we are reaching those criteria which are politically most appropriate before the elections, that is to say, the acquisition of new deleted voters. According to our assessment, the content of the Constitution or the content of the law fulfils the constitutional provisions on the social state. It complies with those provisions which speak of a country which is obliged to take care of its citizens and those provisions which say that the country should be friendly to the family. The fact is, the family is the foundation of the country and if we treat the family this way, then everyone can understand what the state means to you. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we support the idea of excluding maintenance costs from the taxation system and we estimate that this is positive, so we intend to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear secretary, colleague and colleague. The proposal for a law proposed by the first-signed colleague Drobnic on the amendments and additions to the Income Act is very short. The substance of this proposal in Article 1 shall be: it shall be granted to the debtors who support family members to be granted special relief in such a way that the amount to be spent on the maintenance of their children shall be taken from taxation in full in order to ensure the minimum of living life. What is unacceptable in this law for a ruling coalition? What is there that the ruling LDS, the United List, cannot accept? In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, on this proposal of the law already tabled by Comrade Drobnic, opinion 17.2.2002 and today's opinion - which is to say, a few more days and will be two years from when the law was introduced to enter into the procedure - the government notes that for a number of reasons a comprehensive change in the system of taxation of the income of natural persons is needed. Two years after a simple law with one article written by Comrade Drobnic, the government has needed, is the ruling coalition, the Liberal Democracy and the United List, especially when they have placed the law on the agenda. And after two years, the government finds that it does not support the adoption of the proposed law on changes and additions to the Income Act. However, it states in its explanation that its law, which it has drafted, is expected to apply in 2005 1.1. Yeah, I guess. And the question is whether Slovenians and Slovenians will still allow someone who, by way of one paragraph, takes two years to get him into the procedure and eight years, which is tragically, that the same government does not answer for eight years - and all eight years, the same coalition ruled - does not answer the Constitutional Court's decision. Whether she will have this opportunity is in the hands of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Let us hope that such mistakes are no longer made. With regard to the letters I receive on this subject, especially because I myself have been a candidate, along with my fellow Members since 1997, amendments to the Income Act, of course people are turning to me and writing down a number of bitter experiences. Among other things, this. Fertility drop. I've been following the subject of Natalie since I was a student, and I've been hoping for something to happen to society all along. That there'd be something to talk about. He didn't. Some individual voices, mostly younger economists, are otherwise trying to draw attention to the consequences of ignoring this issue. But their voice drowns in the noise of daily political health. When a person reads and thinks about these things, he cannot believe that our government does not even talk about these issues, let alone address the problem. However, only a comprehensive government policy that includes all areas of taxation, education, health care, housing, municipal infrastructure and so on can be effective in addressing these issues. A good example is Denmark, which has developed a mathematical and computer model for forecasting the development of the country. There's nothing the government can do about it. With us all the answers to such questions are wrapped in a magical fog, from which the grey-bearing scholars - readers, some economists from universities and colleges - draw exactly what corresponds to the ruling political option.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u221	Mr. Pukšič, I'm sorry. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u222	country every month [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u223	He's got a little bit of a crush on you. [[...]] Please, we don't have a question for the government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u224	publishes inflation and economic data [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u225	on the agenda. [[....]] Please proceed to the law and present your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u226	Madam Vice President, please don't take my time because it's so limited and so limited. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u227	I'm asking you to hold on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u228	I work in my own time and, of course, I speak [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u229	you will discuss the item on the agenda. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u230	amending the Income Law [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u231	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u232	It took two years for the government and, above all, your Liberal Democracy to put it on the agenda and eight years from the Constitutional Court's decision. [[...]] Therefore, allow me to speak and speak on behalf of the people, citizens and citizens, who, of course, also point to the issue, at the scheduled time, which belongs to our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u233	You can define yourself to the draft law of which Mr Drobnič is proposing, and please, this is an item of the agenda and not a question of the interpretation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u234	Madam President, if you find that it is already true [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u235	This is the first time I've warned you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u236	The last time that the intervention of the government is actually a good conclusion. [[...]] However, you will have to do this first within your parliamentary group, but if not there at the limited time that you have as a parliamentary group, but not to waste this time on the sent-out group of Slovenian Democrats. Indicators showing that the constitutional decision, the Constitutional Court and this law were long overdue [[Amendment of the Income Act]] Of course, the next is the time something happens in this area. Indicators who may have raised concerns are carefully hiding. Citizens have the right to be informed objectively and have the right to know what their future will be. This is also our right to recover from our authorities. I think it is also the duty of the Slovenian Democratic Party to point out that, under the rule of the Liberal Democracy and its supporters, the birth rate in Slovenia has fallen by 30%, which, of course, could be one of the serious problems in society and, of course, a long time ago, the reason for the change of government. Of course, there is also a need to be careful here, because the cheap aging for greater fertility cannot and must not be and cannot be successful. It should be noted that the solution to the money that the government, of course, spends in some other way - airplanes, dirty business and so on. If I looked at some more statistics prepared by Mr Janez Malačič, they say that if we had done an analysis for the next 30 years or for the period 2001 to 2036, we would have found that the population of Slovenia would have decreased from 1,990.000 to 1,676,000, which would of course have moved foreigners to Slovenia. On average, women would have only 1.2 children. The natural and total population growth would be negative all the time and at the end of the projection period would be minus 11 promil. The proportion of 65 years old and older would increase from the current 14% to 23.9%. For a peak on i let's add the data from the projection, for example, the population by 2050 of the United Nations Demographic Department, which shows that the average age of the population of Slovenia will be in the middle of the 21st century 53 years and will be the highest in Latvia and Japan. The reduction of the annual number of live births from about 30 000 to about 18,000 in the last 20 years has, of course, helped to raise awareness of the demographic crisis in Slovenia, especially in the Slovenian public, but unfortunately not enough in politics. Given these alarming data, it is perfectly clear that something needs to be done here. In doing so, the minimum consensus may be to amend and support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, but, of course, the government can only upgrade this by means of its systemic law, but not in the way that what happens by the opposition rejects and does nothing by itself. She hasn't done anything in eight years. Slovenian Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The position of the Young Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u238	Thank you very much. As far back as 1996 the Constitutional Court decided that the Income Act, in the articles providing for child support, did not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a shame that it has been 8 years since this decision and the law has still not been properly corrected. In the case of so-called deleted, in order to eliminate their injustices, the coalition refers to a constitutional decision and proposes not only one but two laws which would also regulate the decision. However, I do not mean to say that the solution to the problem of the deleted is not necessarily necessary and is a complication in the resolution of shame in the national assembly and in the country as a whole. However, I believe that the law which provides for the protection of children's rights should be corrected within a reasonable period of eight years, which is certainly not available. The bill that we are considering today has also been open for two years. This is a eloquent testimony to the attitude of the National Assembly towards respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court and, most painfully, how the State treats children and their parents. Members of the youth party have repeatedly pointed out the fatherly attitude of the country towards the problem of underbirth and family policy management. Slovenia still does not have a national programme on family policy, although it should have been adopted some time ago. Thus, it is not clear what strategy is being pursued by the State for the protection of families and children. Many times we were able to hear the Prime Minister, and not least the Prime Minister, Rob, on the question of birth, answered the question of birth, that the state is making huge amounts for child allowances, allowances for large families, subsidies [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] children and other social transfers. However, it is not only the country's subsidies to the most socially disadvantaged families that are important for greater fertility. It is important that the whole country strategy allows young people to create conditions for themselves when they are able to take care of themselves and their families with their incomes. Thus, we have heard that the government does not support the formulation of family policy by means of tax and other reliefs, but through social transfers and subsidies. In the event that both of them are employed and receive relatively large incomes, they are therefore not entitled to a child allowance or any subsidy. In kindergarten, they pay almost full grades, and they are often in a worse position than families with slightly poor financial incomes. In addition, young people need to be provided with pension security and start saving for a safe age, solving the housing problem. Thus, the biggest financial burden is on the shoulders of young, employed people. A new tax reform is being announced, which will bring a lot of news, not just in the area of income, which will tax this particular segment of the population even more. Therefore, it is not surprising that the average years of an individual’s study are higher every year, as they try to save the student’s financial burden and health insurance by retaining student rooms, student meals vouchers and the possibility of performing student work. However, if they already have children, they are entitled to free kindergartens of large children’s allowances. The country should not solve the problems of young families by increasing subsidies, but by burdening young people at the beginning of their working life. Members of the youth party will support this law before us. While we believe that changes to the law are somewhat ambiguous. The minimum of life for child survival is not specified nor is there a precise procedure for exempting the amount of taxation. However, the aim of the proposaler is more than obvious and uncertainty can be clarified further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u239	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Petty Officer, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u240	Thanks again for saying that. This promise about the integrity of the law can only be sand in the eyes, we do not know what we will accept - what the government says. We had the opportunity to meet the integrity of the law on professional rehabilitation of disabled persons and employment, when more than a year ago a very well-prepared law in our parliamentary group was rejected if you were to prepare another one that would be better. And what happened at the table? The text came to the table, which is actually very similar to the law that we tabled by making some changes, replacing articles, forwards and backwards and some unnecessary mistakes. It's just a fact. We are talking about a bill that has a serious and clear touch on the decision of the Constitutional Court, which needs to be implemented. This would be the most economical, most right to be implemented immediately, even when the law was introduced two years ago. And for the past two years, the family would benefit from the benefits, the ones that are theirs by the constitution. That's why there was no willingness. Of course, there was a manoeuvre around those laws that only mixed and did not offer an appropriate solution, so of course they were also eliminated. The resolution on family policy stated that it was stressed and concluded that the state of Slovenia would regulate the area of family policy, coherently - consistency between direct and indirect or indirect facilitations. I'm afraid that's not happening. There would also be something to be said about the proposals made by Mrs Podobnik, a fellow Member of Parliament. I fully agree with his goals and principles. But the practice, the laws that come to our tables and touch on this issue, go in the other direction. Let me give you a few things. With regard to income: to have the principle of family income; to have housing allowances with respect to the family - other criteria are taken into account. To social benefits: in order for social benefits to be primarily natural in the priority of the family - do not. Other criteria shall be complied with. In short, these objectives are not pursued in all areas. Even the opposite! If you have the status of a family member, a spouse, in a financial sense, you've been hit. You're deprived. Which is contrary to the basic principles of defending family policy in any country, even in this country. You're actually hurt in a financial sense. You're doing worse if you're so arranged. But if it's messy, then you're getting relief. As long as this is the case, of course people in Slovenia will not decide, not for marriage, not for family, not for family life. That's a fact. In some countries they have opted for a different policy, such as Sweden, as I mentioned, where the style of life within the family has become interesting in terms of personality, personal needs and, of course, reliefs, whether direct or direct. Until we settle this in individual laws or financial, housing and similar, until then it will be just a dead letter on paper and beautiful words that live only on the resolution paper. It took 8 years for this decision to be constitutionally regulated. And apparently that's not enough either. It will be necessary to wait, as indicated by the representative of the State, until 1.1.2005. And that's more of a pigeon on the roof. If, of course, the constellation of stars properly points out that this thought will also come to the fore or to the heads of the ruling coalition. I don't know what you're thinking. This law is also part of a programme to be adopted by 1 May. This is not possible, of course, if we stick to the rules of procedure. If, of course, you decide to pass such a law through the Rules of Procedure, we will seriously warn you. But the rules of procedure mean nothing to you. This is so with your attitude towards the key issues of justice, equality and the implementation of undisputed constitutional decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u241	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. A colleague of Silva's. [[No, no, ……]] You give up your word. My friend Barovich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u242	Thank you, Mr. President. I will read the content for which I speak and for which I insist that my colleagues and my colleague in our Group support this proposal. By decision of 14 November 1996, the Constitutional Court decided that the provisions of Article 10 of the Income Act were inconsistent with the Constitution. It also decided that this non-compliance should be eliminated by the National Assembly no later than one year after the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Very similar, if not the same, the content of the text we heard on, do not hold me to the word, two extraordinary sessions and one regular session. I can't get past this. If a constitutional decision was issued in 1996 and spoke for one year, the law should be adopted by the State Assembly in 1997. Unfortunately, the year 2004 is today. I know it would be right if a comprehensive new income law were available to address it, as a whole, as a whole of a new modern, adapted life in the country of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be a country of the European Union in two months' time. And that would be the right thing to do. But this marriage isn't happening right now. I believe they will now, and we've already heard, yes, it's marriage, it's coming right into the National Assembly. He's not here! I'm sorry. We do not have a moment of a new law to be drawn up by the Government on income in this national assembly by the Members of this national assembly, a respected colleague and colleague. If we had it, I'd say, by listening, let's make the marriage whole, good and useful for everyone. I agree, I'm in. And I would also support the government proposal if, of course, it were useful and taken into account. But it's not there. Please tell me, later, when I'm done, I want to know where he is, when he came in, what procedure he's in. I don't personally have it, and I don't see it in any initial, introductory, formal procedure. I'm sorry I missed him, but he's not here. However, on the one hand, we are talking about the implementation of a constitutional decision, on the other hand, we are talking about the implementation of a constitutional decision. I had a little caricature earlier in my conversation with respected colleagues here behind my back, who I respect for their long years of experience and knowledge. Is this a constitutional decision, I don't know, another constitutional court, or is it something else, we have seven constitutional decisions, seven categories in Slovenia? Is the implementation of constitutional decisions dependent on the composition of the Constitutional Court, or on, I don't know, what? Have the rules and conditions for the implementation of constitutional decisions changed in the meantime? It is not right that this is the oldest constitutional decision not implemented since 1996. And it's wrong not to talk about content. But for the content, I think we should all have it the same way. We all want birthrates in the Republic of Slovenia to be greater than mortality. I'm sorry. Stimulans for this, of course, is more, one of them is helping families with multiple children. I know you have a lot of comments. But why didn't you make those comments, your esteemed colleagues and colleagues, if you already have them, write them nicely and make a new law after 1996, when a constitutional decision was issued. I don't know if it takes eight years to make a new law. Now you're going to say it's because this law is blocking government law before it. Of course, every excuse comes in handy. I don't want to hurt anyone, and I don't want to condemn anyone for anything, but once I do, I have to admit that they were or that they were made mistakes. But now I don't know who's to blame. [[...]] The 1998 opposition to obstructing the production and adoption of a new income law in its entirety? Someone else will be guilty again. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't always just object. Once again, I would say that if this law were fully drafted by the Government and taken into account all those comments which are, of course, also included in this proposal, we would talk about it and support it. But it's not there. He's not here. Or even if this moment, if you prove it to me, I don't know, was filed the day before yesterday, unfortunately, it was yesterday, but it wasn't in 1997, as the Constitutional Decision said, not in 1998, nor in 1999. Please understand, too, that we cannot take our views if we have a constitutional decision on the one hand that has the same power and validity, which has suddenly come out of the air and we force it forward, and here is the oldest one and we do nothing with it, and on the other hand we have no support or any other reason not to say today, well, we are adopting, following a reduced procedure, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on income. Look, you have so many comments and all the behavior, but from 1996 to today, no one has made these comments, except now you're giving them if we say a critical word. It's not on purpose. It's not on purpose. That's the way it is. Gentlemen, a constitutional decision is a constitutional decision for all equal, for me as well. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, and you're commenting back, because that's right. In short, personally, because I'm talking. I'll support this marriage. Once again, I would like to, I would very much like this law to be prepared entirely by the government and to be put here instead today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Comrade Tsukati is not present, so my colleague, Sok, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Fellow Members and Members! More than two years have passed since Ambassador Drobnic, as the first to be signed on behalf of New Slovenia, introduced this law. It is an undeniable fact that it would not be dealt with today if the procedure were not in the form of a government proposal. The government claims that this area will solve systemic problems. However, as some have said before me about the Constitutional Court's decision, it is only eight years old. I'm not going to talk about the deleted here again because we've talked about this too much in this National Assembly. But it's interesting. In this case, the Constitutional Court did not issue a decision that would simply become a law, whereby the Ministry would then have to account for or take into account these reliefs, which it did in the decision concerning deleted persons. Of course, it points to someone, I could say, the inconsistencies of the work of the Constitutional Court. Once in a while and another time in a different way. Not to mention that some decisions have been taken by the National Assembly and some have not been taken into account. However, what the government is supposed to do and will actually be today after eight years, whether the National Assembly adopts or rejects this proposal because the government is actually proposing a system law. What we can read, what is supposed to be a family relief in the system law, is actually a proposal that does not impress. If this is proposed and legalised, of course this progressive tax scale will no longer be the same as it is at the moment. At this point it is easy for the first child 10%, for two children 25%, for a total of 45%, for four 70%, for five percent, for six 135%, some families of course in Slovenia, who also have seven children, are also like that, and then it facilitates 175%. According to a new proposal, which Members can read in the media, these reliefs will in fact be slightly higher for the first and second children, while at the third, the sum is expected to begin to decrease by 13.8%, which is 3.8% higher than now, by two children 28.6, which is 3.6% higher than now, and for the third child 44.4%, and for three children, which is already minus 0.6%. And then there the percentage of tax relief is reduced by four children minus 8.8%, by five children minus 21%, by 6 minus 37.2%, and for a family that has maybe seven children, this tax relief will be reduced by 57.4%. I do not think that such a law should be adopted by this national assembly if we are to take demographic policy seriously, we must not do anything in this direction in order to affect families that decide on a greater number of children. In fact, such a decision should and should be encouraged in every way, not through progressive, tax relief in some way. We in Novi Slovenija will certainly resist this. The question is, of course, if we are successful, if, at a time when much more time will be able to persuade the government to withdraw from such a way, too, with arguments. Secondly, Mrs Kolareva said earlier, if I had understood it correctly, that in addition to the fact that the government is preparing its proposal for the law, it would have been possible to accept what is on the agenda today so that it would not be possible to impose reliefs for children with severe mental or physical disabilities. If you are aware of this, of course, it is even worse that eight years have been waiting for this Constitutional Court decision to come true with regard to the facilitations. And if so, then of course I would expect the government to table an amendment to this proposal and include this, or, as my colleague Drobnič said earlier, it has proposed this solution more than a year ago and has been rejected in this National Assembly. I think that in this National Assembly we are aware of what it means to fail to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that we are also aware of what tax reliefs for dependent family members, for children, and that we will make the right and responsible decision. Given that the system law will only enter into force one year after its adoption, but we have not even begun to adopt it, it would be right to legislate what is now on the agenda, to implement this Constitutional Court decision by doing so, and to move forward with matters in the system law to be drawn up by the Government in such a way that larger families are not affected through the tax relief system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Some of you have yet to be reported, and no one is in the Chamber, so according to the conclusion that the time set for this general discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone would like to discuss any further on the basis of Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Please raise your hand. You've raised four hands. A representative of the government, perhaps? [[You don't want to.]] Mr Drobnic, Mr Zląbec, Mr Gasparini and Mr Bevk. Five minutes each. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u246	Two things must be mentioned here. One is the loss of relief, which Mrs Secretary of State Kolarjevo certainly knows, these are the benefits of buying a car for larger families, and at that time it has gone wrong. This is also the coherence of family policy. Secondly, the deterioration of the situation with regard to the new Social Protection Act, where the issue of the maintenance of the most affected is concerned, under the Law on Social Protection for the mentally and physically affected or under amended legislation. So the two laws that are precisely for this area, which you mention in the government's opinion, which is in the sense that stability is getting worse in terms of financial terms. This is actually the government's response to our initiative, which was given two years ago. There was no appropriate determination to settle the matter in time. During this time, of course, the birth rate in Slovenia is decreasing. In the last year there were only 17 000 more live births in Slovenia. That's not encouraging. That's very questionable. There is something to be done and the proposals mentioned in this Income Act will not achieve these objectives. The Income Act is one segment, one segment of legislation that can influence, but also with the proposals that you have put in and explained in detail by my fellow Member, Sok, you will not achieve the goal. Therefore, any argument given in this opinion that you have made when adopting laws does not, of course, hold, will not lead to the objective. It would also be possible to supplement these changes from the introduction of the law in other areas at the time of adoption or the adoption of this law in the second and third readings. It would be possible to upgrade. In this respect, the government could also draw up an opinion. The law could also enter into force earlier in order to benefit from these reliefs at least this year. There was no such willingness, and there was no readiness, because readiness is for something else. The anger of government planes is for a lot of other things. There's no pronunciation for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Evil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u248	As far as the plane's concerned, Petty Officer is right. That was a kick. But I remember the first reference, the so-called congregation in which Demos had the majority, and I remember from the beginning we talked long and wide about how families with multiple children should have a discount when buying a car, and then it all went wrong. The point is, whoever tried to do something in Europe, they all messed up. I am very happy that my colleague Petty Officer told me that in Sweden families do not dry as they do in Europe. We have Italy, the most Catholic, the closest to the pope, and Italian women give birth to 1.1 children, which means there is no possibility of easy reproduction. But that's no excuse to say we Italians are bad and we're good. We're not good. We're weak. It is a disaster, and all of you who are "jambra" in this regard know that the Slovenians will stand by by coming from some other countries, from one another, so that the Slovenians can survive at all. And that's terrible. Whoever tried anything won't make it because it's a trend all over Europe. And I don't believe it's possible to do anything by force. But there is something that can be done not only to look at the ingenuity, not just to look at it from this day forward, but to view every child as a fortune. But we've forgotten about this treasure. I must say that in the parliamentary dishes that are close to me, I must say that there have been quite a few cynical remarks, as if the children were one of the pears that we will be wiping with. I mean, that seems like a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Sorry, Mr. Peterle, you're not. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Please, Mr. Gasparini, you have the floor. [[...]] Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! I thought my neighbor wasn't thinking about me. Because at the end of the day, I have four kids and we're even. But when Mr. Zląbet started talking, I thought he was going to take the boat to the second pier. But in the end, he went into the shaft. I would like to tell Mr Drobnič and Sok, and especially Pukšič, and also to this one, first to Mr Drobnič. Mr Petty Officer, I hope that the purpose of this law is not a constitutional court, but a family policy. And I agree with that. 100%. But there's something I need to warn you. All that, not the loneliness of the law, all that when many of us here claim that the birth rate of the Slovenes would be higher by fixing things here and there, will not affect that. If I send you now before Parliament, and the first woman of childbearing age, whom you receive, and you say, "I will give you an apartment to pay you well, how many children will you have?" And you'll see the answer. Not those polls that just do. I just want to say something. What you say, and also by this law, to forgive, and so on. Maybe it affects the birth rate of 5%, so I'll say 10%. 90% is the cause of something else. We don't have to debate here right now. Mr Zląbec said, and so did Sweden, and the Italians, and so on, have the same birth rate as the Slovenians. Maybe they have apartments and better wages, and I don't know what. That's what they say. Somewhere else is the reason. There's no reason in the apartment, there's no reason in the salary, there's no reason in the income. Not in those percentages, Mr. Sok, you mentioned here. And so on and so forth. But he's somewhere else. I'll tell you that another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u252	Thank you very much. My colleague Bogdan Barovic kept repeating so persistently that he has not yet seen the government's income law, which, of course, I completely believe him, but I would like to say some facts. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Income Act at its 52nd regular meeting on 16 December last year, the government sent the Income Act to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 24 December last year, and the Members were informed by a special letter from the National Assembly that the law was in our house on 31 December 2003. This date also officially opened the legislative procedure of the Government's Income Law. On 7 January 2004, a proposal was submitted for a general examination of this law. Once the procedure has been resolved, the law will also be dealt with by the home committee and, in my opinion, this national assembly will also be considered in March. So colleague Bogdan Barovic had at least two months to read the government law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. Mr Gasparini quoted a few Members in his debate, who took up the debate within the meaning of this law and could not misinterpret you because I listened to everything and it was not a correction of the wrong statement, but a controversy. The controversy is not a matter of replica. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the context of the votes with which I will start Fine Please, as has been pointed out more than once today, 10 minutes after the end of this agenda item. [[...]] If it's 8:30, we'll go to the polls at 8:40. I'd like to ask you to meet me in the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u254	Dear Members, honourable Members, representative and representative of the Government! Good evening, everyone. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We will first come to the end of agenda 1 - questions from Members and Members. In line with Dr. Michael Brejc's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Vlad Dimovski, to the question of Mr. Michael Brejc, on the possibilities of hiring workers who are fired in Slovenian companies. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with Alojz Sok's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Ivan Biszak on Aloyz Sok's question regarding the conduct of judicial traineeship. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In line with Rudolph Petan's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinca, to Rudolf Petan's question on the implementation of public sector wage policy. Vote explanation, Mr. Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague! We are talking about the problem of personal income in the public sector, which is the answer to this question, in fact, we have already asked for about a year and a half or even two years ago at Quiaz. Since this was not the answer, the question with a similar content was raised about three, four months ago, or even more last year, to the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. His responses at the time indicated that these matters would be settled within the next two, three months. It has been shown, that is, from the debates and media reports, that salaries in the public sector have become even deeper in illegality. The promises made by the Government and the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandlj, apparently do not. All these proposals and regulations, which the Secretary-General has promised, have obviously not been made. It would therefore be really good for the public to talk about wages in the public sector in this national assembly and, of course, to try to commit the government to resolve this issue in accordance with the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u256	We're moving to the vote. We're voting! There are 67 of us present. 20 votes against 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of France Rokavac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Information Society, Dr. Paul Gantar, to the question of Mr Rokavac's question on the government's supervision of Telekom's business and its companies. Vote explanation, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. In the event of the last staff exchange in Telekom, it is increasingly suspected that Telekom is in the domain owned by the Minister of Information Society, Mr Pavel Gantar. Especially as far as human resources issues are concerned. The Minister replied specifically to the question raised that it was not necessary to inform the government about the conceptual disagreements that it was the Minister's domain and, of course, the Minister's domain in the event that the Director of the company and the whole company were operating successfully. At the same time, as regards the strange contracts in Telekom and in its company, the minister says he is not competent to exercise control over this key state firm. I believe that there have been such strange questions about Telekom recently and also the role of the minister, and the Minister himself has come to be in contradiction in his reply that it is a recent time for the State Assembly to hold a debate on this answer to the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok's explanation for the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u259	Thank you very much, I will support this proposal, but I must say that all of today's proposals for a public debate in Parliament have been good and in the debate with ministers themselves yesterday, but unfortunately the ruling coalition has rejected all these proposals. It is probably the same fate, but I think, and I fully agree with my colleague Rokavac, that this matter should be discussed urgently, not only on the role of Minister Gantar, but also on the part of Mr Golobič in all these proceedings. I mean, I got one piece of information that Ultra equipped a thousand of Telekom's workers' cars with GPS systems that control from one center where these cars are moving. That can be good, but if I say that this information says that every such system costs $125 000 to get it into a car, and then it costs 15,000 tolls a month, it's a huge amount of money flowing out of Telekom. We do not know what accounts and who in the pockets should be spoken of urgently in this national assembly, so of course I will support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u261	Thank you very much. I will also support this proposal by a Member, who comes from governmental groups. However, this makes it all the more necessary to support such a proposal, because surely coalition partners are better aware of what is happening in an important Slovenian company. Last but not least, they were also responsible for its development. I think that if this National Assembly is to defend itself against a thorough debate on this, including on these permanent staff exchanges, that it will act as it did a few years ago, when we warned about the Triglav Insurance Company, what is going on there. And you defended yourself, but at the end of the day, of course, you had to get to know each other. In the meantime billions and billions of billions have passed away. Also, Minister Maramor, I don't think he's answered my last question as to whether one of the main reasons why they replaced the director is that he significantly reduced the funds for your electoral campaign to withdraw those funds. I think that's probably why he called it off. You don't admit that. It was stated that the sponsoring funds decreased from three billion to eight hundred million. And there was a lot of reserve for you to get the elections even in such a more sophisticated way. There are a number of issues that need to be clarified in this debate. I hope we're ready enough to clear these things up and that this Telekom won't come back to us as a boomerang like the Triglav Insurance Company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u262	Thank you very much. We can move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. And we continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, and 58 votes against 7. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in European Union matters. We will move on to a decision on the amendments tabled. I very much ask for your attention because I would like to inform you that, in accordance with paragraph 3a of Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, each proposed amendment will be adopted only if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. So let's move on to the vote. We will first decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, 19 votes against 46. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the five amendments to Article 4. We will first decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 19 votes against 46. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the first amendment was not adopted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the proposed groups of Members, with a note that if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points 3 and 4 become irrelevant because they are contained in the amendment under two. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, 67 against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under 2 has been adopted, the amendments under 3 and 4 are so irrelevant. Under five, we are voting on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Explanation of the vote Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Vice President. This amendment is: The participation of the Council of State in forming the positions of the EU National Assembly in matters or in EU matters is governed by the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. Today, the debate on this amendment was substantive, and some concerns were raised that such a solution could constitute an intervention in the constitutional status of the State Council. In our opinion, that is not the case. If we accept this amendment today, which we believe is acceptable and of a kind of healthy compromise, we could, in the third reading, draw up a supplement to this solution, in which there would be no possible doubt that the business solution would have any impact on the constitutional status of the State Council. We will support this amendment on our own and within the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Can we move on to an amendment under 5? Yes, you can. We're voting! There's 67 of us in attendance, for 21, for 39. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the three amendments to Article 6. Under 1 we will vote on the amendment of the LDS House of Representatives and the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, DeSUS, New Slovenia and SMS to Article 6. We're voting! There are 68 of us present. 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Under 2 we vote on the amendment of the SMS Group. We're voting! There are 66 of us present, 20 to 43 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Also on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group under order number 3. We're voting! There are 66 of us present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the two amendments to Article 7. Under one, we vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, with a note that if this amendment is adopted, the next amendment becomes irrelevant. Vote explanation, Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u265	Thank you very much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This amendment refers to the public opinion of the national assembly. I believe that it is necessary to accept this amendment in order to ensure that the work of the national assembly is made public. However, in the event that national interests or other interests dictate it, we can also close it to the public. This way of working is in line with democratic standards and is also useful for Slovenia. I think we have to respect such standards, not lock ourselves in rooms and make secret decisions. This would also mean for those who participate in such secret meetings to be bound to remain silent. The public must be informed of what is being decided in this national assembly and what will be decided at European level.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? [[Yeah.]] First, on the amendment under Article 7(1). We're voting! There are 68 of us present, 20 votes against 45. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Therefore, we also vote on the amendment under 2. Mr. Barovic, explain the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u267	Thank you very much. As you know, it will be me and my colleagues, and I hope that those who have listened closely to Mr Engelman, what explanation he has given, why the sessions should be closed, at least in their own right mind, can say that this amendment should certainly be supported. Look, none of the reasons we've heard are that the sessions are closed. None. Our proposal is very concrete, very clear. In principle, the meetings should be open to the public. But those who are not supposed to be will be closed, and their views will be communicated to the public. However, I think that more content is open to the public to learn that it is going to another large country. But what is in fact, I didn't understand Mr Engelman about a single matter, which would really be a secret that wasn't meant to be known. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's be smart, though. We can still close the sessions for what we feel is not appropriate for us or for foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, explanation of voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u269	I will support this amendment by my fellow Members of the Slovenian National Party, because I am also the former, identical. I don't understand you, colleagues and colleagues, that you didn't support the amendment. I do not understand that we would ensure that the work of this national assembly is made public. As a rule, these are public meetings. I'm gonna go hard in front of people and say we voted it out. Maybe I'll go easier than you, because I'll tell them that I voted that the sessions are open to the public, so that people can know what we're doing in this national council and what we're taking. However, if there is such a thing as it would be considered to protect in the sense of Slovenian interest, then we can close them down. But we need to explain the reasons, not to continue denying the rights of citizens to be informed of our work. However, our work is a public work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič the Noble, explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Madam President. Europe is increasingly opening up and is increasingly showing its true face. It also shows it in the area where we want to close and go to where Europe once was and has already floated out of that closed boiler where we are somehow going back. I don't know what we have to hide, because if it's matters of intelligence, they can always be closed. In principle, the meetings should be open. We can always make a deal and close the session. If we have all the sessions closed at the beginning, then surely everyone will think, once again, the Slovenian authorities are cooking some pork, where the ruling parties will steal something and it is, of course, to be hidden. And I believe that's what people will think. That's what I'd think, and actually, that's what I think. After all, I don't know why we should hide debates, such as social security. I don't know why we should hide the discussions about what kind of financial resources will get some segments of the economy and so on. I don't know when these are secret matters. Unless it's about weird transfers of funds, what customer cash. But then I believe it's necessary to hide. As long as I think it's necessary to keep things open, let's keep them open. I'll vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u272	Thank you very much. In the following order: Mr Potrč, Mr Peterle and Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Potts, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u273	Thank you very much. When we prepared and adopted the first Rules of Procedure of the new National Assembly 12 years ago, I was chairman of the Rules of Procedure Commission. We had an interview - some of you colleagues were - we also had an interview with representatives, experts from the European Community, who warned us that we would be one of the few countries that would have working bodies open to the public. When we adopted this Rules of Procedure, this issue was again raised and we decided together not to change it because it has become a practice in Slovenia, although this is not a practice in Europe. To talk about not being public, but not being true. Following the decisions taken, the public will be fully informed of what we have decided. However, tactical issues of alignment with European countries may not make sense that they are public. That's why I don't support such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u275	Thank you very much. I did not use the opportunity to explain my vote in the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, because I felt that in the morning or afternoon debate there were so many arguments that I really expected support from this amendment. Since it didn't happen at the first, I hope it does happen in the second. It was said that about half of the Member States of the European Union practice open meetings, half closed. Of course, everyone has the opportunity to close when they see a particular interest in this. I don't think this airtightness is going to help us. At the same time, of course, it allows the manipulation of those who will lead the committees, because only those official interpreters will be the truth. In its entirety, Mr Potrč, the public will not know what this is about when it comes to the negotiation process. If this is a negotiation process, it probably makes no sense for the public to say how we will represent things in the formations of the world. I think it would be true, even so I would say, in the European trend, if, in principle, the sessions were open, we would have the opportunity to close them at the same time. I will, once again, follow these debates for almost two years and there is more openness and if, when a new constitutional treaty is adopted, I must say, no one has questioned the openness of the meetings of the world when it will be in the legislative role. That's why I would advise us to follow this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u277	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal because I too believe that, in principle, parliamentary meetings must be open. This proposal and such practice reminds me of what some of you once had at the CKs and were closed night meetings when nothing was said to the public about what was important, which the Assembly then had to confirm. I don't accept this practice. I think you're afraid of something, too. In view of the fact that you negotiated poorly, that it would come to the public, that the negotiations you sold as a very successful one were not successful. I already know today that, say, the aluminium industry will be 7% of the additional customs, which Hungary, Poland, has avoided with transitional periods. Slovenia has not requested it and will strike at our aluminum industry. And a lot of these dead people are in the closets, and you're afraid of that because you know that this is going to have a negative impact on your ratings before the elections. In fact, it is unacceptable that in some Parliament we generally close meetings in front of the Slovenian public. Such fear of the public is unheard of, and only systems that restrict dictatorships accept it today are reintroduced. I think we should have open sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? [[Yeah.]] We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 8. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And a final vote on the two amendments to Article 10. Under one is the amendment of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, under two New Slovenia parliamentary groups. First, we vote on the amendment under one. Explanation of the vote, Mr Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Once again, respected colleagues and colleagues who were not present at this afternoon’s hearing would point out that this is not just a nomo technical correction. It is also a substantive correction, as the first paragraph of Article 10 refers to the first paragraph of Article 6. Look at the law, please. Article 6 mentions the position, the law, and the same, in the 10th decision. These are two essential and nomological and substantive differences. For this reason, please follow our amendment, because we have said that there must be a position taken by the competent working body referred to in Article 6, paragraph 1, because it says that the working bodies take positions, not a decision. Once again, I ask and warn, it is not just a mono-technical difference in content. If not, I hope the legal services are here, they can say, because in my opinion it is a breach of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u281	Respectable. I'll support this amendment. I've told you the reasons for this before. I do not have any authority to speak on behalf of the government, but when Mr Engelman left the Chamber earlier, he said, it would be really better if this amendment were accepted, because it was clearer and there would be no problems that he had just spoken of by his fellow Member, Barovic, and I had warned them before that in the previous debate. I really suggest we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-34.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? [[Yeah.]] We therefore vote on the amendment of the SNS delegation to Article 10. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 24 votes against 35. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also voting on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 10. We're voting. The 65th in attendance voted 20 to 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have therefore ended our vote on the amendments and I am concluding the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended bill, I believe that in two articles, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at the next meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 3rd item of the agenda and inform you that, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law implementing the customs rules of the European Community on Friday 27.2.2004 following the end of the last item of the agenda. Now we continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the building law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the building law, the second consideration, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 45 votes against 17. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, i.e. the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the defence law: We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision - a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the defence law, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. May I have your attention, please? I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 124 of the Constitution, the proposed decision will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting! There are 66 of us present, 65 against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision - a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, a first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting! There are 63 of us present, 16 votes against 38. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I conclude with this, this item on the agenda. I am adjourning the 34th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all very much. However, I politely invite the honourable Members to a meeting in the large lounge tomorrow at half past nine o'clock. Thank you all very much. Good night.
