ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers and other representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! The National Assembly will start the 39th extraordinary meeting convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me first inform you which fellow Members and fellow Members are unable to attend due to their other obligations: colleagues Battelli, Čebulj, Diaci, Jelinčič, Kebrič, Kramberger, colleague Ana Marija Tisovic and colleague Zammernik, will be absent from the meeting after 5 p.m. and colleague Peterle will be absent. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. Once again, I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 39th extraordinary meeting. The draft agenda shall be drawn up in accordance with the first and second paragraphs of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals concerning the agenda, so we are moving on to the agenda. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr President, when it comes to setting the agenda, it seems good to draw attention to a matter relating to the procedure. Today the question was raised at the college whether the content of the law, which is the first item of the agenda, overlaps with the content of the already adopted law awaiting a referendum decision, and this law, according to our current practice, is untouchable and can be amended in no way at this time. If this had happened, this would have been unacceptable precedent and could have been a referendum in the future. In the parliamentary group, we went very peacefully at this time through the content of the law, which is the first item of the agenda, and we find the following. In our opinion, Article 1 of the Law on the Enforcement of the 8th Point and Article 1 of the System Law, which we now have on the agenda, is overlapped, in particular in the first and third indents. The first law provides that the law lays down the conditions and procedure for issuing decisions establishing permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia to nationals of another country the successors of the former SFRJ who had a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and on 25.2.1992 and have already obtained a residence permit. The second law, and today's law, the conditions for obtaining a permanent residence permit also for all such persons who actually live in the Republic of Slovenia, whether they have already obtained a permanent residence permit or not. Therefore, if the so-called technical law were to fall at the referendum, the beneficiaries of this law could still exercise the rights under the system law, which is more broadly laid down here. Thus, we believe that there are two circles in which the first, the smaller, is entirely contained in the larger. So, unfortunately, they're covering up the marriage. And, of course, if we followed the practice so far, such a law cannot be included in a meeting of the National Assembly or in reception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u3	The fifth paragraph of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure allows the President of the National Assembly to assess whether a specific legal question needs to be resolved at the meeting itself and invites the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service to give an oral opinion at the meeting. This is what Mrs Tina Bitenc has already done in college, but I will ask her to attend the meeting of the National Assembly. If she assesses that she is asking for an answer to your question, she will also ask for a written opinion. So I ask Mrs Tina Bitenc to come to the big debate room and answer your question, as stated, with the fifth indent of Article 66. Can you do it now?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u4	Mr. President! We and the proposer also checked whether these two laws overlapped. We have re-evaluated that Article 1 in this part of the system law, as amended after consideration by the Committee, does not destroy the technical law. However, we would like to take some time to re-examine and possibly create something written for you and to tell you where the emphasis differs from the first article of the technical law. It was clear from the outset that the technical law covered point 8 with the exception of those who received a permanent residence permit following reduced procedures, on the basis of Article 17 or I think Article 41 of the Aliens Act. So from that point of view, we already had, at the time of the deposit, the difference that remained. However, there is one part of the text that I have already talked about in college that I would like to check further with the applicants. However, I think that the government, as a proponent of both laws, should also answer this question. In fact, at the time of the initiation of the examination of both laws, without any comments from the National Assembly concerning the overlap of the content under Article 117 - namely, they cannot deal with the same issue - took them into consideration. From this point of view, we would like to clarify in an indisputable way that there will be no subsequent evidence that we were working superficially.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u5	I'm going to set a time-out for you to prepare a written opinion. Then we'll move on to determination. Mr Podobnik asked for an oral explanation at the College meeting. Apparently, at the college meeting, he did not receive assurances that would satisfy his question. He has also repeated this question once again and I will decide that Mrs Tina Bitenc will give this opinion. A colleague of Peca has prepared for his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party we come from about the same position as in the People's Party. We estimate, for the first time, that the overlap between the content of the technical and systemic law stems from Mr Bohinc's wishes and, unfortunately, the confirmation of the ruling parties. I would like to point out, however, that it is pointless to accept today's agenda, particularly if we are aware that a referendum or a referendum has been called for on the matter. It would make sense, in our opinion, to have all the activities, whether well-intentioned or malicious, that we know that they are in our country, both by Mr Rob, who has stalled procedures and, according to our assessment, of course, even complicated them, as by Mr Lavrinc, who has proved himself to be a man who cannot distinguish between his client position and the presidency of the working body. I would like to point out, however, that in all its efforts so far, the policy has demonstrated its inability to solve the problem. According to our assessment, only one path is possible at the moment, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment. To the extent that this National Assembly wishes to preserve its face and to the extent that this National Assembly wishes to continue, of course, the tradition of the legislative branch of power and the respect for law in our country. It is estimated that today's agenda, which contains the first item, should not be adopted by this national assembly, but should start immediately with all the re-examinations for the referendum, respect the will of the people around the referendum or the issue of technical law, and only then determine the content of the substantive law, which will be reflected on the basis of the said referendum will. This would finally end this national assembly with a double game, which we have been playing in Parliament for three months. At the same time, I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to stop the threats. or to Mr Bohinc, with threats following the issuance of decisions beyond the legal basis and after writing such acts of law reflecting the referendum will. Also allow me to say in the last few moments that I think we have the whole story of being wiped out in our country of course into non-creditability. Because the fact is that this country has its own history and will have its future and we must by no means play it, even if it is the wish of the United List or the LDS. We do not intend to support this content in the national party of the draft agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u7	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u8	Of course, it is the power to explain differently what is now proposed, so that we get a break. But I don't understand it well-intentionedly. For if the purpose was to obtain this opinion in writing, it could have been obtained from the college until now, but it is probably more intended to delay this meeting. But I would like to answer this dilemma, which is not at all a dilemma for me: Do solutions in technical law overlap with solutions in systemic law. In fact, Mr Podobnik, if the technical law at the referendum is rejected, then there will be no problem at all, since the regime in the system law will be such that it will not be contrary to the referendum decision, but will be consistent. That's definitely the way it is. However, if the law is approved, the system law will apply because it was later adopted and is in line with the substance of the constitutional decision. And there is, in fact, no serious dilemma and no need for any break and any further delay in setting the agenda. You will decide as you decide, but I only expect that this time will not be a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u9	Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, all procedural conditions are not met by the consideration of this law at today’s meeting. We have in mind, of course, and we must, of course, have an event on the competent parental committee, where the law has been dealt with by emergency procedure, although it is not qualified for it. I don't know who qualified him to be an emergency law. Who identified themselves, perhaps the president? In this regard, it should also be discussed who determines the urgency of the law by emergency procedure. We know that in this Parliament, we have a Slovenian Parliament for this college, which has been defined - it has not been defined, so it is not. And another claim by the government and some in public that this law on the implementation of the 8th point is totally unnecessary. And a referendum, or that the referendum is totally unnecessary. Yes, dear colleagues, by essentially taking the referendum initiative, so that you place the content of the law, the technical law, in systemic law, is exactly what Mr Anderlič confirmed earlier, in terms of what follows from that, so that means challenging the first law by introducing the content of the technical law into the system law. It would be time for this Parliament to work in accordance with the rules, with a small constitution, as it is called, which it has just put in place. In this way, of course, we will not be able to work forward, it is a trap, a legal trap, a trap of democracy and the New Slovenia Group does not want to continue this practice. The only real solution is, of course, that this point is not being considered to seriously ask yourself what you have misled the National Assembly and to address those issues in this country that are current, not this interruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u11	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. The same problem as pointed out by colleague Podobnik, we warned Slovenian Democrats on Friday on the Internal Policy Committee and, of course, highlighted the same issue, and the same problem was highlighted, and instead of the answer, we were taken away from the word. In this regard, it is quite clear that if the system law does not govern all groups, it is no longer a system law but is discriminatory. However, if it also covers and solves cases that are resolved in a technical law that is now the subject of a referendum, it is this particular problem that has been exposed again. For we cannot, in some law now, deal with a new one, otherwise, a problem that is under discussion, or a problem waiting for a referendum decision that waits for its finality, and even after the adoption of the referendum one year after the adoption of the referendum, we must not solve the same content of another, as voted in the referendum, gentlemen. This is respect for the referendum, which is the basis of respect for article 3 of the Constitution, which states that the people have authority. This is the first reason why we do not accept or oppose such a agenda. The second reason is that you have changed the way in which the law is adopted in a regular procedure, gentlemen. We received this morning a copy of the law, which was adopted late Friday afternoon by the committee, and today all amendments, the amendment to the amendment, should be prepared and the procedure should continue as some of you have imagined. Is this a regular procedure? We all know that this is not a regular procedure, but that this is an emergency procedure, you can say 10 times that it is a regular procedure. This, gentlemen, is an emergency procedure. For on Friday three quarters of the articles were changed, some are completely new. And now we have this amended text, this morning it's accessible, and it's certainly purely perfunctory, when you say it's a regular procedure. For this reason, we believe that the request of the signatories should be respected by 23 Members. An extraordinary meeting has to be convened, has been convened, but this meeting addresses the subject required by 23 Members, but without the adoption of amendments, without the adoption of legislation, without a legislative procedure, as the legislative procedure runs on a regular basis and has been included in the February meeting, gentlemen, on 16 January this decision was taken by the College. Because of this, of course, such misdirection and such, I would say, we do not accept the disastrous change of the rules of procedure "ad hoc" in the service of daily political objectives. I think the principle you've all heard applies: Stop the horses! Stop the horses, gentlemen, and let us consider the law as it is set, calmly, soberly as it is in a democratic society.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u13	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr President, I understand that the statements we are making are statements made by the groups on the agenda but not by the general debate. And I expect that I have this right, but others have this right to say it only once, at a limited time. I would like to say that, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we believe that both points are correctly filed and are ready for the agenda. That it's far from the truth, but it's a repetition of the untruths that change the process. The procedure shall continue on a regular basis. There is justification for calling an extraordinary meeting. It is completely incomprehensible how it can be said that in the second reading - and this is the second reading - the National Assembly has decided, but not the amendments - I do not know this, I hope that the meeting will also be guided so that the debate will be held where amendments are tabled to individual articles, and this is simply not possible. With regard to the third hearing, however, Mr President, you and all colleagues present know that the third hearing in the ordinary procedure is possible first after 24 hours after the second hearing, provided that there are no amendments adopted to more than a dozen articles. I am sure that we will respect this; in the context of this respect or such respect, all procedures are correct. With regard to Mr Podobnik's proposal and your findings, it will not be the first time that we will react late, both by Mr Podobnik and by your side. If that were true, the issue should be raised at a time when both laws were filed; this is the case with Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure. However, we know that the so-called technical law was introduced in September, and this so-called systemic one month later and that we have already adopted the technical law, we have done the first examination of the systemic and public presentation of the opinions and it has been sufficient for four months to clarify this issue. However, the government and the secretariat will give their opinion on the subject, as they are also expected to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Complete the question, for Mrs. Bitenchev. Excuse me? Procedural question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u16	I would like to complement my procedural question, my fellow Members of the Council. The content has changed following the amendments voted on the committees on Friday and Article 1 has been amended and I have therefore asked the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u17	Good. I'll wait for the job to prepare a written opinion. By then, I'll have my leave of absence. As soon as the department informs me that it's done, I'll let you know when we'll continue the meeting. In addition, I inform you that amendments to the bill tabled by the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party have been tabled. Until further notice, I am adjourning the work of the assembly. As soon as I find out that the legal and regulatory services have finished their work, I'll let you know via the main microphone when we get back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u18	The opinion on the legal question on the possible overlap between the content of the two proposals is prepared. He still needs to be photocopied so you can get him on the bench. In this way, the National Assembly will continue its meeting at 3 p.m. and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u19	It's 3:30. 10 minutes ago I informed the assembly, those who were here and those who were in the office, that at this hour we would continue to work, because at this time we received a preliminary opinion on the legal issue concerning the possible overlap between the content of the bill and the law on enforcement of the 8th point. Let me remind you that this question was raised by Comrade Podobnik. It seemed right to me that I had put in place here that article of the Rules of Procedure, which gives me this possibility that, if I assessed it that way, we would also clarify procedural issues. I don't want you to do the wrong thing. Now we have this opinion. You received it on the bench. The essence of this opinion is summed up at the end, where it is said: On this basis, we find that the content of the so-called system law does not refer to the so-called technical law and, in view of the content of both laws for their purpose, as derived from the legislative material, according to our assessment, do not overlap in any way. Thus, I would now continue the debate on the establishment of the agenda and propose that the State Assembly should adopt such a one. Please check your voting devices. Comrade Squirrel, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It was two minutes before I was able to read this opinion prepared by the legislature. Of course, the interpretation of the third indent is very important. The interpretation of the first indent is also very important. I thank the legal service and accept it. However, since it is always, if later interpretations of the purpose of the legislator occur, everything that happens when the law is adopted itself, some material that remains in force, I expect, of course, what it says here, in this text, that it will also be an integral part of the legislator's purpose. What the legislative and legal service wrote down should therefore remain the aim of the legislator at a later point of judgment in the Constitutional Court or elsewhere. Because then we're doing what's responsible. But the time we read it was two to three minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u21	Mr Podobnik, if you suggest, on behalf of the Group of Members, that this time is longer than you suggest, then I suggest we move on to a decision. [[...]] Please check again We have two more submitted for explanations of vote. [[...]] First, my friend Rokavec. Comrade Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the proposed agenda or I propose that the National Assembly decide not to address item 1. The fact is that you have violated Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure eloquently by proposing to convene this extraordinary meeting: the President of the National Assembly shall convene an extraordinary meeting at the request of at least a quarter of the Members or of the President of the Republic, but of course when it comes to matters which cannot be postponed and cannot be placed on the agenda of the regular meeting in due time. These are: the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, then the decision of the National Assembly, bound by time, the determination by law or by law, whether it is the mandate or the termination and approval of the mandate of Members, or the provisions of Article 92 of the Constitution, which speaks of a state of war or state of emergency. None of this is happening in this country right now. And I see no reason at all, because of what the National Assembly has to do under item 2 of this agenda, where the Constitutional Court has ordered it to redefine the deadline for the call for a subsequent legislative referendum, in order to misuse and circumvent the procedure and then to deal with the system law - the system law on which the proponents once again say that it has actually politicised the Slovenian public and that the system law must simply overcome this situation. None of this, ladies and gentlemen, will be done because you do not want to solve this issue by law, by constitutional law. And until this issue is resolved, you will not solve the question of so-called deleted in this country. In addition, you are responsible for further politicising this issue. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u23	Your time is up. My friend Školč has the floor, followed by his colleague Barovic. A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I regret that it is not possible to vote on each point individually or that no proposal has been tabled in the procedure for not including item 1 on the agenda. I will therefore vote against the agenda in its entirety for two reasons. One is the nature of the work of the National Assembly, and it seems to me that it is too small for us to meet one of these formal conditions in order to have the required number of signatures. This can lead to the destructive practice of the work of the National Assembly. Above all, this is not necessary because this is a debate that has been open for a long time and which could wait without any further delay until the end of February. The second reason why I will vote against it is also the inability to study everything the Committee has done at its meeting on Friday. But I can say in advance that there are some solutions that are expected in advance to end up in the Constitutional Court in one way or another. I am against the fact that the National Assembly or the Constitutional Court uses it as a place where it solves problems that it cannot solve on its own, and from this point of view, it seems to me that this is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u25	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We will not support the agenda in the Slovenian National Party. We estimate that it is an innovative reading of the Rules of Procedure by the Coalition, the United List and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. He also spoke clearly and loudly to my colleague in front of me. Secondly, with all due respect for the work and the efforts of the legislative and legal service, we have also, as far as we have succeeded, reviewed both the law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the decision as well as the so-called system law and I hope that today I may even have an opportunity, I do not know that a strong substantive technical law is already in force and is included in the system law. Once again, the Slovenian National Party shall not accept such innovative reading of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u27	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. I am the fourth time, four times I have been elected to this House of Legislative Decisions and my constituents and voters would rightly tell me that there is something wrong with Peterlet if I did not say publicly and clearly that I cannot support such a agenda. Because the expression of such impeccable kindness, disrespect for our house rules of the game, that it is something unheard of. Thank God, Mr Školč and Mr Rokavec have already spoken in the same direction. Today you know that the final deadline for a decision on the referendum should only be the subject of this, not skipping procedures, disregarding the rules of the game, in order to enforce some political will. And I don't want this ping-pong between the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court, in which I think they're already mixing the water in the sense that the border between the court and the legislature is being wiped out. I want us to go back to the tracks of the rules of the game that apply here, and decide what is necessary and what is in accordance with the rules of the game. Point 1 is not in line with this and I will therefore vote against this agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u29	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u30	I will vote in favour of the agenda, especially because Article 90 of the Constitution and the other articles of the Constitution dictate that Members be responsible for their work. And above all, to address issues in a way that will be closed, but not to further question some of the things that need to be settled. It is undeniable that we have a decision by the Constitutional Court ordering us to settle this issue. The request for this meeting was in this spirit, so let us settle the matter. To make it clear to citizens and citizens, as well as to those who do not have regulated status in the Republic of Slovenia, that we want to arrange this, that we are a responsible Parliament and that the delegation and the excuse that we are rushing something past the rules is completely unfounded. Even more so, because it is precisely those who have always said that all matter must be regulated in one law and have also contributed to the fact that we have a 2nd item on the agenda, so to speak, that today only the decision has to be supplemented, but the referendum has been brought on its own, and that this is not an item where today is at all worth, or should we talk about the so-called system law that would sanction the decision of the Constitutional Court and put this issue out of the agenda, but, unfortunately, our colleagues and colleagues have led us to the referendum, and this point is to be considered in any case.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u31	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u32	Thank you very much. If I understood my colleague Rokavac correctly, he asked whether this first point should or should not be on the agenda, in some way he asked a procedural question and I very much agree. I also believe that there is no business possibility for the first item to be dealt with, unless the applicants consider that there are already exceptional situations in Slovenia. You've already introduced a state of emergency, you've already abolished the constitution so that the rules of procedure don't apply in this house, in this country. Some of the signs indicate that some in this country would like the extraordinary situation, the mascara actions that are caused by this direction, certainly, where it should indicate that we Slovenians do not know how xenophobic, impatient, which is the basis for some to want to declare an emergency. I ask you, do you consider that there are exceptional circumstances in the country, that there is no need to respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I myself see this reference to an extraordinary meeting and also the classification of this point as some handball, how with some sensitive problem that is valid and must be resolved procedurally, of course, to quickly meet the solution that was originally imagined and, of course, we have here again the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which has already seduced you, Madam President, once by interpreting the deadlines, when and how to put forward an initiative to assess the constitutionality of this Parliament. So I think there is now one big question under any such opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u35	Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this agenda, but for some purely other reasons. I spent my time on one of the points that I discussed on the agenda today whether we were "kissing" or "kissing" or not. That's when I said I wasn't "kiksal" and so again, today's not 10 p.m., it's going to be four o'clock, the law enforcement said that this agenda is okay and I owe it to the professional services to believe it. If anything goes wrong, I'd like to know right now that I'm not "kissing" but that I respect the opinion of the profession and that's why I'm voting here. If someone thinks the profession doesn't know what he's doing, then those who are against the agenda should think about some other moves, or change the secretary-general, because we have an opinion that says it's okay with it, or do anything else. Well, my mission is political judgment. And on the basis of what has been proposed here so far, I can conclude that the conditions are met, that I am voting for the agenda and that I will vote accordingly. In doing so, I publicly and clearly state that I am not interested in the possible consequences of climbing. Someone else will be responsible for this, not every individual Member. It's about the reputation of this house and this institution in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u37	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I accept the interpretation given by the legislative and legal service, not because it would be, not to be offended by the legislative and legal service, I would say particularly important, but because it writes exactly what it says in the articles. And the articles of one marriage and another are prescribed, and anyone could have read it before he just wanted it. Anyone who didn't want to, he just asked a question, and he formally had that right. Now we have an answer that shows that there is no conflict between the two. Secondly, I will support this because if there have been so many and so many times in the last four terms of the National Assembly, even so unobjective, as well as such a comprehensive speech, then I simply do not remember this because we have considered this, the whole issue, regardless of the fact that the content was slightly different, in the technical law, twice when we decided on the referendum, in the first reading of this system law, in the public presentation of opinions and more. And so talking about not being ready is really not objective. And the latter, in addition, a special debate on content was held here, not in the National Assembly, but in cooperation with parliamentary parties on the so-called constitutional law. There too we have opened many questions; many solutions have been found; they are now embedded in the text. And I advise everyone to read today's press conference, Dr. Wedam Lukićeva, President of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u39	First of all, in two opinions expressed, Comrade Rokavac and colleague Jerovska. Article 85 of the Constitution provides that the President of the National Assembly shall convene a meeting if at least a quarter of the members of the national assembly so require. Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure, which, in the first indent, summarises the constitutional provision, does not say, does not specify what it is or what should not be the subject of that decision. In view of all that has already been said, both within the framework of this meeting and in the College, the State Assembly is convened in this respect in accordance with the rules of procedure. Yes, and that's the second thing I want to say, I am aware of the warning given by my colleague. That's what I said in college. We are introducing a practice whereby it will be possible by a quarter of the votes of all Members of Parliament, anyone, at any time to propose any topic to the meeting of the State Assembly. I am aware of this danger and I am concerned, and I have also proposed it, but this is a matter for consultation in the framework of the parliamentary groups in session, so that perhaps today we can only finish reading the second reading of this law and then make a final decision at the February session and at the same time explore the possibility of a path through constitutional law. But I say, this is a matter for discussion, which may be in the opinion of the parliamentary groups until the end of the discussion of this Article 2. Otherwise, I think we have concluded, and this is a good decision not to limit the debate, so today we are having a discussion, we are going to have a quality discussion, and then we are going to decide how to proceed. I will put such a proposal to the vote on the agenda as proposed. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. Yes, you raised your hand before the vote was over, colleague Peca, although I asked you twice to check the voting devices. It's not working? [[It's not working.]] You raised your hand early enough and I'll take your objection, that's for sure if the vote were done, would you be working now? [[...]] Okay. That's why I'm always asking you to pay attention. We're in the middle of a vote. Once again, we decide on the agenda. May I have your attention in the Chamber? We're in the middle of a vote. 77 in attendance, 49 in and 23 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that the agenda for this meeting has been adopted. Before we move to point one, allow me to inform you of the following. There is no limit to the debate. I will also lead the session in a way that will ensure that everyone tells their position; I think this is the only way to have a quality discussion. Since there is no time limit and I would like to make a second decision today under the agenda, this is a decision on the decision, and I will assess through the debate when we should break this point if it is to be delayed in order to move to a decision on a decision that may be short [[We've already had those discussions.]] and then we continue the debate. Keep this in front of your eyes. Before we go to the vote on the decision, I will warn the National Assembly 15 minutes earlier, so that you can all be present; this correctness is certainly necessary in this respect. We're moving on to one. On 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992 in the Republic of Slovenia a permanent residence was declared in the Republic of Slovenia. You wanted a word on a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal. Nevertheless, Mr President, you said that the College had decided that the debates were not limited, but I suggest that the State Assembly, in accordance with Rule 67, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, should decide, on the proposal of the Member - so I suggest - that the speaker can only discuss the same issue once. That, I think the rules of procedure still allow.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u41	Just a moment, please. Article 67, paragraph 5 - yes, you are right about the procedural proposal. You are therefore proposing that the fifth indent of Article 67 be taken into account so that the National Assembly may decide, on a proposal from the President or a Member, whether the speaker may discuss the same issue only once. Well, this procedural proposal of yours will be put to the vote. Just for a moment, I would like to ask the National Assembly once again if, if I was not clear enough earlier, I could take into account that the College has been discussing this possibility and I think it would be good if we had a debate without restrictions on this proposal. Just a moment, my friend Jerovšek. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, but I'm saying, look, it's not disputed that the fifth paragraph determines that it can be decided, just a moment, please. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Five minutes to rest. [[...]] Please, please, I will be here for five minutes to consult with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, then we will move on to the decision-making process. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u42	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall and sit in their seats. Cveta Zalokar Orazem proposed that the possibility given by the Rules of Procedure in the fifth indent of Article 67 should be applied so that the speaker could discuss the same issue only once. We have briefly consulted, and I think that the adoption of such a proposal would raise a whole range of questions about what the same question means. I would like to recall once again the College's decision, or the National Assembly shall decide without discussion on such a procedural proposal. I'm putting him to the vote. 73 present, 32 for, 34 versus. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 34.]] This proposal is not adopted. So that we can continue our work now. I will give the floor to the representative of the government who is proposing the law, this is the Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc. And then to my colleague Lavrinc as Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u43	Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to refresh your memory that last April's Constitutional Court adopted a well-known, multiple-quoted decision requiring the legislator to harmonise the constitutional non-compliance established with the so-called law on foreign refugees with a long title law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries of the former SFRY. The constitutional non-compliance was found on several issues and in point 7 of its decision ordered the legislator to remove it. Moreover, as is known, in point 8 it also ordered the abolition of constitutional non-compliance at individual level, as is the case with the issuance of decisions. As a proponent, the government passed two laws last fall, the first so-called technical law, which you know, and the so-called system law on 8 October last year. A number of months have passed since October, as well as a larger number of discussions on issues covered not only by technical legislation but also by the system law, or on issues related to the resolution of this issue at all. At least five discussions in this National Assembly on the technical law were a public presentation of opinions and the first consideration of matters of the law under consideration today. During this time, especially in the last few weeks, perhaps three weeks, there has been an intensive debate on the possible resolution of this issue in a different way, by constitutional law. In these debates, which were very intense, including with opposition parties, the positions on the question of whether it would make sense and that there are many arguments that this issue should be addressed by constitutional law. We also discussed its contents in the Constitutional Law. A few versions of this law have been prepared, close to ten. Above all, we have discussed those issues which, in much later than those submitted today, have also become the content of the system law under consideration. I submit that the views on content have been complemented by the system law, precisely because of the debate on the constitutional law, which unfortunately has not yet led to the final result that the views have come closer in many ways. And that today's proposed additions represent a considerable convergence in directions that we have heard in many of the debates that have been held so far on this issue. I said at least five about the technical law, the public presentation of opinions and so on. In short, we've already told each other almost everything. And the government, I think, also rightly expects the public to slowly round up this debate and resolve this problem. I am very sorry that we have not been able to fully reconcile our views on resolving this issue with the constitutional law. At the same time, I am pleased that this debate has contributed in many ways to the fact that some or some of the proposed amendments have been introduced in the present system law. Which one do I think? Above all, and I would like to do so if you would allow me to present my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, especially to the point where I am referring mainly to that supplement that actually applies to the so-called individualisation, the selective approach. This is what many, especially in the opposition ranks, have been committed to since the beginning. Of course, an individual approach where it is found that actual stay has not been established since the date of deletion. A specific finding procedure for the determination of actual life is provided for in the amendments and it is incumbent on the competent authority to determine the permanent residence of an individual in Slovenia at the time of the decision to determine his residence in the Republic of Slovenia as of 25.02.1992. I think that we have somehow put a stop to what has always been highlighted in these debates as the necessity of individualisation and the prevention of any possible case in order for someone to be granted this permission without, in fact, establishing in the administrative procedure his actual stay in the country, of course, the permissible interruptions set by the law as a one-year period or an exemption. Another such issue, which has been raised several times in the debates so far, is the question of the doubt that, in any particular case, it has occurred, on the basis of the wrong data, on the basis of new facts, new evidence, in short, on the basis of additional information, that the procedure needs to be resumed. The amendments proposed by the three parliamentary groups and supported by the government also provide for a new institution, an institution which we have already, I think, have already entered into the content of the constitutional law, i.e. the institution for the renewal of the procedure or, as we have called it, a specific audit procedure. The State Prosecutor, the State Advocate, the Ministry of the Interior may, after this proposal, request a renewal of the procedure in which the residence permit was granted, for all the reasons of renewal under the General Administrative Procedure Act, as well as of the specific additional procedures set out in this amendment. In fact, if the beneficiaries of the renewal procedure have, in their procedures or in any other way, obtained information that the persons who have obtained the authorisation do not fulfil the conditions. In short, it is possible to rediscover, in the event of doubt. The Act also adds new deadlines to the renewed reason, namely the 6-month period from the date on which the applicant found out for a reason of renewal and the absolute date one year after the application of this Act. In other words, one year after the entry into force of this Act, eligible applicants will be able to claim a renewal of the procedure if they receive new information on the fact that the authorisation has been granted to anyone and that there has been any irregularity or new information if new facts are presented. In particular, I believe that the proposed amendment of the three groups of Members should also be highlighted in this context with regard to the revocation and termination of the authorisation. It is proposed that a permanent residence permit could be revoked by the issuing authority, if established, in a procedure led by that authority that the authorisation was obtained by deliberately concealing the essential facts or circumstances affecting that decision. In short, this is also an additional option, which is also based on a number of discussions on these issues that we have been leading. This amendment also, of course, supports the government in the arguments I have presented. Another big issue that has gained a lot of room in the debates, in my firm opinion, is unjustifiable, but no matter how representative of the government I accept the introduction of new provisions relating to compensation claims or damages, including in this law. Although the Bond Relations Act resolves a number of issues in this regard in a way that the individual will prove very difficult before the competent court to prove that the damage has been done, either because of the deletion or that the competent authorities have acted unlawfully or that the damage has not yet expired. Above all, it will be difficult to prove the causal link between the deletion and the alleged damage to an individual. For all these reasons, I consider that very rarely they will succeed with claims for damages. We also discussed these issues extensively in the debates on the constitutional law and also there, and I think it is a high degree of unification that makes sense of such provisions, despite the binding standards in the bond law, to put in place additional guarantees in the directions for which we are all actually committed - that there will be no harm here. The Government therefore supports the amendments made by the groups in this sense, namely that no provision has been made for compensation liability in the following cases: if it is an individual, for that beneficiary or for that injurer who does not comply with the conditions laid down by this law for the recognition of residence since 28.2.1992. The law, as you know, is very precise, has criteria that require determining the actual life for each individual. And for those who fail to demonstrate compliance with these conditions, compensation claims cannot or are not entitled to be lodged. Nor are they entitled to lodge compensation claims under this proposed amendment, which I support on behalf of the Government, all those who did not take full advantage of all legal options in accordance with the then applicable laws, such as the 1991 Aliens Act, the 1999 Aliens Act and the Act on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Countries of the former Yugoslavia. Other third parties are not provided with claims of compensation if those who claim that the damage occurred fail to prove to the court that the damage is not due to the unlawful conduct of the administrative authority. And a few more, or two, about the damage. The amendment explicitly states that the right to seek compensation for limitation within the limitation period laid down by the rules governing bond relations, but you know that this is a three-year or five-year absolute limitation period, resulting in a large majority of any such claims being obsolete. And another provision in this regard. The discussions focused on how to limit damage, how to deal with individual types of compensation. These discussions resulted in the proposed amendment, which reads as follows: that the intangible damage is not recognised. In any event, under this law, as proposed by amendments, non-profit damage will not be able to be enforced. We discussed these restrictions, these additional restrictions, the additional assumptions of compensation liability, in particular with regard to the drafting of a constitutional law. I think we've come together in a lot of ways, and I believe that such solutions will be able to support us. Of course, I propose that the solutions in the proposed amendments of the LDS Group, the United List and DeSUS should be supported, supported by the Government, and in this way complement the law, which will thus be in line with the majority mood and debates that followed in all these past months, when they were at the forefront of the debate on the final or comprehensive resolution of this issue, even though they were only related to the technical law or the decision on the call for a referendum or something like that. I repeat that we have spent a lot of time highlighting a number of issues in this regard, leading a rather qualitative debate, and I think there are very many arguments to bring it to an end in this way, to complement the proposed regulation in the directions, as proposed by the amendments. And that is what I would like to say, given the debate that has opened with regard to the adoption of the agenda on the possible overlap between one and the other. I assure you that there is no overlap and we fully agree with the opinion of the legislative and legal service. It is simply that the technical law refers to a completely defined category of population, and we have talked about it many times here and explained it systematically to another category. Systemic to what has not yet been demonstrated in administrative procedures in the country, and contrary to the technical law to those who have already proved and proved in administrative proceedings and on this basis have also been authorised. Technical laws shall, as only a technical name, indicate, only in order to define the technique of awarding permitted or more precisely stated findings of facts, actual life to those categories for which the administrative authority has already obtained this in the process. However, in the case of a system of criteria, it is for the administrative authority to determine, on the basis of established criteria, a one-year and more permissible cessation of actual life, the validity of the conditions in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. I suggest that you accept these supplements and that this will be a definitive and comprehensive solution to the deleted issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u44	Mr. Secretary, there will be no misunderstandings. The procedure now complements the draft law, as supplemented by the competent working body on Friday by the Internal Policy Committee. There are no more amendments, as you said, to the amendments of the three parliamentary groups, complemented by a proposal for a law, as proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy in the procedure. A report on this will be made by my colleague Lavrinc, Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy. Comrade Lavrinc, please. Before a colleague of Lavrinc comes to the speaker’s stage, let me just say who are in line for the debate on the first amendment or first amendment to Article 1: colleague Janez Janša, Janez Podobnik, Janez Drobnič, colleague Majda Zupan and colleague Alojz Sok. I will accept that there will be no misunderstanding in the order of the application, as I will know from my best judgement that they are being submitted, that there will be no misunderstandings about the order of things. If I understand correctly, my colleague Peca asked us to put him on the list. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The report is actually short. The report in this first part shows that at an urgent meeting, in order to avoid the mistake that I have made in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure, we have considered the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which had a permanent residence registered in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992. Initially, before the beginning of the substantive part of the meeting, representatives of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups left. The report is quite expensive in this part, so I'll allow myself a few more words. After seven minutes and twenty seconds of procedural intervention by my colleague Tsukjati, I warned him that he had made a procedural statement to the word and that, as he spoke about the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, the rules of procedure also apply to him. So I warned him to finish within a reasonable period of time. When he answered or answered me, in fact, he told all of us that he did not intend to do so or that he could not do so, I had to take away his word. That's supposed to be some sort of excuse. The reason or reason was as always for each such act elsewhere. The report then tells us that the representative of the proposer, who also had all the amendments tabled before him, was quite a bit - let me say that several amendments have been tabled jointly by the LDS, the United List and DeSUS. This is mainly the set of amendments that somehow respond to the warnings and comments of the legislative and legal service. In addition to this group of amendments, amendments were made by SNS, SLS and SDS. Therefore, the applicant added the following clarifications in the introduction, after having considered that I would say so, in all these amendments, concerning the settlement of the matter of reparations, the regulation of the question of the renewal of proceedings and the regulation of the question of the specific finding procedure for determining the actual situation of residence. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then said or expressed the opinion of these services concerning the amendments tabled. He was also with us as a representative of the Council of State, as it is widely known that the Council of State tried to overcome the situation with its proposal. However, when we decided to address this so-called system law, it was not possible to take into account the State Council's proposal not to consider it. The discussions of the members of the Committee have focused mainly on the areas highlighted in the report. This is the third indent of Article 1 which was discussed today; then Article 4 which regulates the criteria for determining the actual life of a full-year alien in the Republic of Slovenia; Article 5 which governs the refusal of the authorisation; Article 8 which regulates the effect of a permanent residence permit; and Chapter 6a, which re-regulations the procedure; and a new Chapter 6b, which deals with the recovery of damage. A number of amendments have been adopted, and I must stress that, in addition to the amendments of the three groups of Members of the SDS Group, the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 5 and of the SLS Group to Article 5 have also been adopted. The other amendments, which went against the amendments mentioned and with the intent of the law, were rejected. In addition, the text of the law is refined before you. That would be everything on behalf of the board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Comrade Lavrinz, Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee. We are now moving on to a debate and then to a decision on the articles and the amendments tabled. The amendments of the two parliamentary groups you got on the bench. I have to say right away at the outset that the procedure requires that we only talk about the subject of that amendment, that is, I think it is impossible to respect consistently, then I should have interrupted everything sooner or later. Please consider as much as possible. I would not have intervened in the debate on the subject, or else I think it is right to say everything we think about this law. In order as you are now reported you will get the word: colleagues Janša, Podobnik, Drobník, Zupan, Sok, Pece, Vizjak, Potrč, Krebs, Jerovšek, Potura, Tukjat, Rokavec, Pukšič, Barovic. Comrade Roman Jakič reporting, colleague Rupar and so on. Okay, we'll write it down. My friend Petan still raised his hand. First of all, colleague Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Minister of the Interior, greetings are also valid for the Minister of Education, who has just left the Chamber, who is obviously interested in what is not wrong. Colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I must say that I expect that throughout the whole debate we will come up with various open issues because we combine the ordinary procedure for the adoption of law at an extraordinary meeting, so there is simply no scratch on how to act in individual cases. Especially if the law we have before us is completely different from the first reading when the general debate was held. To this end, he also witnessed the performance of the Minister of the Interior, who spoke not only about Article 1 in this introduction, but also about amendments, which was a failure or a lack of understanding of the procedure. He also talked about negotiations, the convergence of views and all other things, about all the articles, about the whole content of the law. Are the same rules applicable to government representatives as to Members; or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u48	The same rules apply to my colleague Janš, so I also said I will not intervene in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u49	Then that's how I'm going to discuss it. But I would like to say in the beginning that I'm sorry that this point is being dealt with in this way because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u50	My friend Janš. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] There is Article 1 in the debate, which I have explained. [[..]] Look, it's impossible for me to interrupt each other separately if I went to either Article 2 or Article 3 from my point of view. I know, colleague Anderlich, of course I know, but believe me, it's almost impossible to work from the presidency. Excuse me? It is, of course, but it means a very torn debate that does not lead anywhere. I think it is right to discuss, please everyone, that they try to keep their limits and this call please accept. Please, colleague Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u51	Those protests there from the LDS sent-offs would have been justified if they had come sooner when the Minister spoke about everything, not just Article 1. Now you're a little late. I am also sorry that this point is being addressed in a way that is commercially controversial, which will continue to be the work of the National Assembly. What Mr Školč pointed out earlier is just in place. This explanation by the secretariat for legislation is also written very quickly. In our opinion, it is not true that anyone who has read both laws knows that the content is duplicating, but let's just say that it is what you wrote. I hope that you will not, after the debate before the referendum on the so-called technical law, claim that this system law, if adopted, will limit compensation for the category in the technical law. I hope that Mr. Potch will then tell us again on television. With this law, as you say, we do not regulate anything for the category of technical law, nor do we say compensation. For this reason, please do not use this argument to enter before the referendum. I also regret that, for the third time, we have been in an emergency or emergency session for the so-called "deleted". At that time, however, hundreds of things were not resolved, we did not gather for an extraordinary income meeting, although the Constitutional Court decision is seven years old, for the unemployed, although we have tabled the law five years ago, and it is by no means in turn and so on. It is also strange that the law before us is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u52	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u53	that the law, which is before us and also Article 1 if you wish, has been amended by amendments which have been tabled and dealt with on the home committee without the participation of the opposition. [[...]] This is in many cases the first time new matter, the second time solutions that are contradictory to each other. Article 1, as is now proposed, is a very long inversion of everything. Article 1 is the legal provision of this law. It raises more questions than it closes, and in our view this problem cannot be solved in this way. That is why we have also tabled an amendment proposing the deletion of this Article. As proposed in this Article, the matter cannot be settled primarily because the Constitutional Court, by its decision, intervened in Article 13 of the Constitutional Law for the enforcement of the basic Constitutional Charter. So it's constitutional matter. On the one hand, for the matters laid down in the Constitutional Law, on the other hand, for the decision of the Constitutional Court. None of this can be resolved at the level of normal or customary legislation. That's probably what first-year law students know. The only solution here lies in the law of the constitutional law and later this law will be adopted by the State Assembly. As long as he's not here, this problem won't be solved and it'll be open. Let us see what the Constitutional Court has done with its decision and what you are doing when you propose the content of Article 1. 1. Article 1 of the Basic Constitutional Charter and the Basic Constitutional Charter are also referred to as the preamble to the Slovenian Constitution, which states: "The Republic of Slovenia is an independent and independent country. The Constitution of the SFRJ shall expire on the Republic of Slovenia. The exercise of these rights and duties shall be governed by constitutional law." We have laid down a constitutional charter and have defined a new state in the constitutional law for the implementation of this charter. This new state is called the new state of Slovenia, which regulates citizenship, abroad and all other matters. It is not possible to say that someone who is regulated in Yugoslavia, that this status will also be easily regulated in a new country, unless the law which has been adopted has granted him this inheritance right. Otherwise, the state defined these things. Article 13 of the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter speaks precisely of this content, which you are trying to regulate here in Article 1, states: "The nationals of other republics who, on the day of plebiscite on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, on 23 December 1990, had a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and also live here, shall, until the acquisition of the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 40 of the Citizenship Act of the Republic of Slovenia or until the expiry of the terms of Article 81 of the Aliens Act, be equal in rights and duties with the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, except in the cases referred to in Article 16 of this Act." This Article summarises the provisions of the Aliens Act, which was adopted a little earlier in early June 1991, and thus, in Article 13, this provision became constitutional, regulated by constitutional law. That's not what it is, and that doesn't say it here or that we read it wrong, it's swindling. Not only did we listen to the Constitutional Court judges, who also participated in the Constitutional Commission at that time, we even listened to the people who wrote this article about how this was understood, and there can be no doubt about it. The material you now propose in Article 1 is of a constitutional nature. With the new law, this problem cannot be solved. It came about because the Constitutional Court has reached out to where, under our legislation, it cannot. The Constitutional Court is not competent to repeal the Constitution or constitutional law; otherwise, they would not need a constitution, but would have only a constitutional court that issues decisions and would then write new decisions on the basis of the decrees. This is exactly what they require in this case, but, as you can see, it doesn't work. Every day you promised to make decisions, none of them. Now for the content. This is a legal framework. However, as far as the content itself is concerned, I must say that both the Constitutional Court's decision and what you are here summarizing in Article 1 created a virtual environment that shows things differently than what actually happened. On an empirical level, it's possible to prove that what you're saying here is not true. The fact that some things are taken from the Constitutional Court’s provisions does not affect the truth, but what was actually happening at the time. That's not an argument. Not particularly if the references to the Constitutional Court's decision come from those who said there was no god here to force them to vote in favour of the law that would enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. Let us conclude this debate on what is to be and what is not to be. We, I must say, respect the rule of law in this country, also agree that the situation as it is now cannot remain in such a way that the rules cannot be contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court in the long term, not only on deleted items, but also on all other things, including on income, which you are significantly less interested in, obviously. That is also why we are proposing an instrument with which this can be reconciled. And that's the law of constitutional nature. The actual situation that was then and that we are now talking about, which you say has been erased, was as follows. From August 1991 to the end of October 1991, about 30,000 people left Slovenia after the defeat of the Yugoslav Republic of Slovenia, according to estimates we accepted at that time. In just over 10,000, there were soldiers serving in military service who had no permanent residence. The rest were officers, JLA sub-officers, JLA civil servants, some customs officers, which is less important, a number less important category, as well as many members of their families. They were leaving in convoys that drove on the roads for hours and hours, so we had to close the roads while they were being transported across Croatia. In the end, they also left with ships, some 30,000, at least 20,000 of whom had a permanent residence here. Practically none of these permanent residences checked out at the time. They threw leaves behind them from the trucks that said, "We'll be back." Neighbors who stayed here and took Slovenian citizenship were threatened with the same words and so on. Of course, the situation changed. First of all, on February 25, 1992, state authorities were forced to align their registers with the legislation that was in force at the time. And they coordinated it, and they didn't wipe out 18,000 people, but they found out they weren't here. Most of all, about 5,000 of these were missing in Ljubljana. At that time, the administrative department of the Ministry of the Interior sent out all these 5,000 addresses, where it was evident that people had not regulated their status, a notice. Some 4,800 envelopes have returned, according to the assurances of Mr Fattyak, who was responsible for these matters at the time. There were only a few hundred of them who didn't come back. Approximately the same percentage would probably be elsewhere where this notice was not sent everywhere. Some of them, however, were — the last time I showed here was the notice of the congregation of Idrija, where it was done. So, talking about someone erasing 18,000 people, when we saw convoys of these people leaving with our own eyes, the ships of these people leaving are an insult to common sense. Maybe there are some cases within these 18,000, some ten, maybe a few hundred, when it's not about those who've left. Let's say, there are some cases that have been published now, too, when people at this time were at a clinical treatment centre and so on and they couldn't sort out this status anyway. There were also some other cases that I will quote later. And there may have been - and here we have seen specific cases - some illiterate forces, excuse the expression that also appeared in various television shows that said they did not know that it was necessary to arrange it. And now all tens and thousands of those who have left with the defeated army are hiding behind these. Why, do you think, on behalf of the deleted society, Mr. Todorovich, who, as we hear from you, is not a very good communicator? In this society, however, people with higher education, completed academics, and so on, do not come forward, even though they know how to communicate better. Because there are 200 members of this society and some of the most military personnel of the former JLA, those who just went back and came back, so they're probably not doing a better show, but they found someone who can't be told that he was in JLA. It is clear that the situation then turned when the Dayton agreements came to pass that it was also clear to the last and most engrossed supporters of Milosevic that there would be nothing from the great Serbia. And when it was clear that Slovenia had gotten out of this boiler. At that time, these categories were coming back in mass. And as in 1991, 1992 no one checked out of a permanent residence, nor did they now report it. They just waited a few years, some asked for a temporary residence, many also received it immediately, some even permanently, then many also citizenship through political alliances. Here I agree with Mr Minister, the revisions would be very welcome. I doubt, however, that they will be carried out by those who have granted this; such audits make no sense. And now, of course, they're telling you they've been here all along. But the state has no written evidence that they checked out of their permanent residence to leave. Now they're asking us to prove to them that they weren't here. Funny, we saw convoys with our own eyes driving past you for hours and hours. I have told you our assessments, for a large part of these people there is also a list in the archives of this country, because there were negotiations, when a unit will leave and who is on the list, as well as photos of these departures. Claiming it was here to be erased is, of course, ridiculous. It is also interesting how, in some cases, permanent residence was proved. Someone who came back in 1995 named either family members or extended family members who were here as Witnesses. They said he was here the whole time or that he was just going somewhere a little bit. That's why this category has grown. But even if you count all this you will never get the number 18,000, because many of the so-called eraseds who left Slovenia are buried in Bosnia, Kosovo, Croatia, because they then participated in these fights and massacres in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Let's put together the lists and you'll see what the real number is. In the proposal for a constitutional law that we have offered in coordination, we have proposed some solutions that would substantially more fairly regulate what is now proposed in this Article 1. We ourselves have defined two cases where the granting of the status back would be strictly legally justified, and the question is, which was morally justified. All similar cases should also be dealt with in the same way if they are granted back status. And there are 10,000 of them in this country. It is a matter of cases where the authorities carry out the procedure as prescribed, or when a person who tried to regulate his status demanded documents that he could not obtain objectively, such as from someone in Bihač's passport at the time of the war there and it was clear that a person could not obtain it within a certain period of time. Perhaps there is another objective circumstance where we allow retroactivity and the possibility of injustice being committed, so we have also proposed individual treatment. I would point out that when we discuss this so-called solution, you reminded tens of thousands of people of the injustices that have been caused in Slovenia by this arrangement. And they're like, "What are we? And we are citizens of this country, some 70, 80 years old, and obviously we are not alike." Many of these injustices have been settled, but only symbolically. People are revolutionized when they hear here estimates that human rights do not have a price. I agree, but for everything the same. No, there's no price for some, but there are for others. In arguing with this amendment that this article should be deleted, I will now give a few arguments which have been sent to me by the electorate and the electorate. I got hundreds of letters this week. I couldn't even read them all, but some of them are very relevant to the debate on this article and I will present short quotes because I think that something might open up to the commuter. All the letters are signed. They're mostly in the manuscript. I'm not saying anything anonymous. This is what the lady from Kranj says: "For more than 24 years, I had a modest apartment of 21 square meters. I have 37.5 years of work and was retired from 5.10.2002. I have a modest pension of about 75,000. I worked in Textilindus Kranj, where the factory went bankrupt in 1991. Then I was registered at the Employment Service as an unemployed person for two years, then I worked contractually at Brdo pri Kranj, then I was back at the Institute. My last job was Iskra ERA editing. Then I was sent back to the Institute as a technological surplus and stayed until 5.10.2002. Since my income was a minimum wage and compensation for the children was 35,000, I could not pay rent for the apartment. I used to pay TV, electricity, and a phone on a regular basis. If I paid for the apartment, there would be absolutely nothing left for me, for the apartment cost about 27,000 set. 9.12.2003, says last month, I was evicted from my apartment. To me came to the home of Tomazine Marko, a court executive who, among other things, told me that if I got on the phone with Mr. Kranjski Mayor Mohor Bogotaj, to say only a word, they would stop evicting. I insisted, but I didn't get it. First they say he's sick, then he's in a meeting. He wasn't reachable. They moved me out. They took my stuff to the warehouse. If I don't pay for storage, they'll sell it to me at auction. Social Services says they're not responsible for me. Now I ask myself: Is Slovenia a stepmother for us? We Slovenians also feel that we have been wiped out in our beautiful free Slovenia. Each country should first take care of its own people and then provide assistance to others. It's the other way around." If that's irrelevant, then I don't know what's relevant, gentlemen. Or, this is even more interesting, a letter from the saver of the failed SIKURE from Kopra, who looks at these debates deleted and says: "As a defrauded saver in the SIKURA food and credit service, I ask you to ask a public question in these debates in the Slovenian Parliament how to repay 400 savings in the amount of about 2.6 billion tolars. I've already written to the President of Parliament, Pahor, and he hasn't answered me. The Attorney General replied that everything had been handed over to the Public Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana. It was all in a drawer. The owner of the HKS, the Sikura Food and Credit Service, Andrej Sever, also the owner of the HKS Soča from Nova Gorica with a similar fate, is from a group of businessmen from the circle of very loud municipal Optimism, where LDS members and sympathizers were. Andrej Sever, as in the current tape, set up the company [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u54	Comrade Janš, can we limit ourselves to a proposal for a debate, an item, a law on deleted [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u55	Sure. Mr President, I am reading a letter, which was also sent to you and you have not replied to it, and that is why this lady, with her name and surname, who is also another name, you probably know, has asked me to raise this issue on this subject and on this issue. The bankruptcy weight is less than 5 % of the debt. Where did all the money go? Why did the Bank of Slovenia, which had been in control for 3 years, not inform the competent authorities? Who reached the conclusion that the North had been released from custody so that he could destroy the evidence, as investigators now find? Who else are his silent companions hiding behind the current anonymous owners of Juliana? We also turned to the Slovenian ombudsman, who took us away for a short time. We have turned to the European one who has accepted and dealt with our complaint. Now we're asking you why the investigation didn't end in 2001, when the complaint was filed. The person who cooperated with this North, the owner of the HKS, says that the North should be protected by the policies of Bogdan Biszczek, Secretary-General of the LDS. In short, a large circle took place, similar to the political mafia underground of the worst kind. What kind of legal state are we, and how is this possible? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u56	Please. My friend Zląb, I warned the speaker. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u57	This is no longer a quote, it will now be my question to the LDS colleagues who are having difficulty listening, as there are not many left in the Chamber. When, then, will you start to correct the injustices committed by your members and officials by hundreds of them? That's what I'm asking. Then, a letter from a cousin who lives in Croatia: I am a Slovenian who has long lived in Croatia and I am retired there. In order to obtain a permanent stay in Croatia, I had to attach a request and a series of documents from the birth certificate to cuts from the pension and health certificate. How is it not deleted in Croatia? Because they know they wouldn't get money there, they didn't care about paper. They didn't care about money." Then the letter, which was also sent to the National Assembly, to Mr Pahor, here was the answer from his advisor, which I do not understand. I don't think the lady did either. And the lady says: "Over 10,000 workers have worked hard and have received adequate wages. Unfortunately, we Slovenians are in a subordinate position against immigrants from the southern republics at every turn. All of them were cut off from their monthly incomes to build blocks and dwellings. But only a few Slovenes were on the list and so on. The husband was a few years away from retirement, exhausted from work, from the heat and cold he landed at the employment facility. In the 1960s, I also remember my 17 years and a few months of work, and see from the PIC, I get a decision to have 27 thousand pensions. I am only a minor Slovenian mother, who because of five Slovenian children had to give up my job and a safer age without children. My country punished me for being a mother. Gentlemen of the National Assembly, you asked yourself what your constituents who live on the brink of survival think when you spend the heavily earned taxpayers' money for a meeting on the rights of the deleted..."
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u58	Comrade Janš, with all due respect to the writers of these letters and your right to explain your position, whether you could stick to the subject of this debate, this is the law on deleted. Please, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u59	Mr President, on the 1st article of this law that we are discussing, you are trying to arrange for the so-called deleted status back, and thus, in my opinion, do great injustice to those people that I am quoting now. And they feel that, that's what they wrote. I am here, as we have written down in the Constitution, a representative of the people, and I am obliged to bring these opinions here. These letters came about because this topic is open. If you hadn't called an extraordinary meeting here and all the other meetings for deleted, then there wouldn't have been any of those letters. So don't tell me he has no connection. You reminded them. Now I'm gonna cut it short. Here writes an exile from Maribor, saying: "It is in fact a double face of officials who have different criteria for exile during World War II than for erased in 1992, because exiles are no longer interested in pre-election fighting, because there are 180,000 already dead..." and so on. Antonia from Illyrian Bistrica: "We don't have a home. For the third time, we lived in a barn where we don't have sanitation, not the heating they had in the house, because of corruption, even though we paid all the building records for the second time. We have asked Mr Rob to receive representatives of the village because we have these problems, but we were not even worth answering. Mr Rado Bohinc was given an insight into our documentation, and we copied it six times and sent it. Zaman. Not once have they been worth a written response from any of the interior ministries. Our farmers are mostly small farmers in Slovenia, they had to pay for themselves throughout the post-war period, social insurance and hospital treatment. Now they get some over 30,000 tolars of pension, they don't have a regression, they don't have a security allowance, they don't have money for foreign aid, and they don't have a service like the others. You're talking about deleted information about their alleged rights." Then an example that you will find very difficult to say has nothing to do with this article. The lady from Vransko says: "In 1991, she should apply for citizenship. But since I have lived since I was born in Slovenia, I didn't think I needed this. However, I did not follow this, nor was I informed in writing by mail from the congregation in Žalec, which sent mail for every little thing. When I later learned that I should have played the part myself, it was already too late. I applied in 1991. But the rescue came in 1996. Why doesn't my compensation belong to me? Apparently, she waited five years for her citizenship to be granted, even though she lived here all the time. And there is no Constitutional Court decision for her. Well, and [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] No, because it's about citizenship.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u60	There's no dispute in the bench! My friend Janez Janša has the floor. There's no dispute in the bench! Peace, Comrade Zląbec, you have no word and no controversy. I've also called a speaker several times. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Can we end this show and everyone else in peace? Please! Please, colleague Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u61	Well, I would really like to appeal to LDS colleagues who first tried to limit the debate by a commercial vote or a vote under the Rules of Procedure, but failed because they didn't get enough votes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u62	Let's stick to the subject!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u63	that they are now tolerant and are not trying to take words illegally. [[...]] There's someone here you'll probably find difficult to say is our voter. This is a former Yugoslav army officer who says: "Before I give you my opinion, I would like to say that I know the situation from 1990 to today because I was in active service of JLA until 1980, 17 years old, I am not Slovenian, but I also have a lot of friends and acquaintances from the republics of the former Yugoslavia. But if these people, so-called deleted, deserve compensation - my answer is yes. Why? Prior to their independence, most of these people did not believe in this process and were firmly convinced that independence would not succeed in any way. However, I would also like to say that a few days ago I met two officers who were interested in compensation who had left Slovenia before the war and had by no means come to Slovenia. There's going to be a lot of cases like this." Their colleague writes this - because he feels guilty because he's the one who made things right then, and now he's meeting those who are coming and counting on you. The New City lady says: "You are discussing the deleted - first let the state reimburse us, the pensioners you stole from us under Article 161 of the Pension Insurance Act, to all those who retired in 1996-1999." And so on and so forth. Come in. "For a while now I have been angry and appalled at the daily and parliamentary sessions," writes Mrs Nada H. from Kranj.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u64	Comrade John Janša, I can only ask you once more without interrupting you or taking your word, or you can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u65	That's the last letter I quote. "Some parliamentarians, as well as ministers and even presidents, are literally beating their own people and gaining independence, as they give all rights to those who have humiliated us for 80 years. They offer high compensation on the tray because they did not want to acquire Slovenian citizenship. I wonder how these people lived in Slovenia for 12 years without citizenship, which they didn't want at the time, you're saying that without any status, they didn't have a job, they didn't have social security, they didn't have medical care and so on. How is it possible for such people to live in Slovenia for 12 years? Then who was funding them? What kind of country are we, if we don't even know how many people walk through Slovenia without personal documents? How do you suddenly know who they are and how much compensation we will be able to pay the Slovenians? You recently took him back to the public service of someone who received a high bribe and paid him compensation for the reward for the time he was away from work. I'm asking you nicely, but what laws you've written to make such nonsense possible, because you're making a public fool of all the people who voted for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u66	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u67	Now, I understand Mr Evil Man, who in every sentence uses the word "tolerance" that he is also today patient.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u68	My friend Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u69	I'd like to say that in the end. The Constitutional Court reached into the basic constitutional charter by means of a decision, there is no doubt about that. The content of Article 1 of this Law, which you have proposed, summarises this, is still partially disruptive. This problem cannot be solved by ordinary legislation; the problem remains at the level of the constitutional institutions. It's the only place he's safe. I would also appeal to all my colleagues and colleagues to consider asking ourselves a question in this regard. Everyone has one nationality as a rule. Those who have Slovenian citizenship have no other nationality, those who have another country's citizenship may have certain rights in Slovenia, but these rights are not equal to those of Slovenian citizens. If that were the case, Mr President, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u70	Please. Comrade Janez Janša, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u71	In short, one who is a foreigner in Slovenia also has the nationality of another country, which protects him, so do not talk about solving the problems of people without status, correcting injustices and so on. In this country, we have 10,000 citizens to take care of, and you don't even answer the letters.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u72	My friend John Sponik has a word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u73	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues. How much time will you give me, President?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u74	Without limitation, we are discussing Article 1 of the amendment. I've already said this in the introduction, applies to everyone, including my colleague Sponik. Yes, I tried to warn you, I can only reach into the debate and take away the word. I know. Look, if we're going to take such a very formal approach, then I'm going to have to cut into every word. I know, but then I'm gonna have to cut down on everyone's word very soon. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u75	Thank you, President. I'm the one who made some materials here. He's quite a text ready for my performance. Comrade Janš took the time to discuss very clearly and cut off quite an important piece of time for this. I will also try to be shorter from the collegiality of other colleagues so that they can get to the word in direct transmission. However, I would like to say this in the introductions, because I will speak mainly about Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u76	Yes, this is the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u77	My friend Janš talked about everything. The word, which has been spoken here many times, is that Slovenian citizens and citizens of our debate measure through their social distress. Many, that's true. We must take this into account, but as Members and Members of Parliament, of course, we must be aware that our decisions are such that, despite the fact that people are looking through their social distress, it is right for them to see that we are going to take our decisions forward. This is a responsible decision in the National Assembly. I have also taken the advice of my colleague Potræ and I have read very carefully today's performance by Mrs Wedam Lukič, President of the Constitutional Court. Its performance shall touch the content of Article 1. Madam President said that, given the situation of the Constitutional Court in the system of division of power, some tensions between the Constitutional Court and other branches of power were understandable in her words. And then he said, The decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding. The only constitutionally permissible means of overcoming the Constitutional Court's decision is to amend the Constitution. However, if such an assessment were found to be an abuse of the constitutional law in order to deal with it, something other than constitutional matter, it would possibly be judged by the Constitutional Court. Moreover, the President of the Constitutional Court says that there is no reason why the legislator should not otherwise regulate the method of enforcement as determined by the Constitutional Court if he found that any other way was more appropriate. I am convinced that when the Constitutional Court decides and by its decision intervenes in a matter of a constitutional nature, it is the duty of the legislative branch of the Authority to decide that it will go wrong, as the President of the Constitutional Court has said, and that it will write its own decision in the form of a constitutional law. The President, however, says that such a different regime is subject to a constitutional judgment. This is certainly the case, as has been said today, with one very interesting pressure from the President of the Constitutional Court on the political and professional courage of those who claim that there are reasons to resolve this situation through constitutional law. I think we still have to think this way. With regard to the substance of Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 itself, the following: It speaks of the conditions for obtaining a permanent residence permit. And that's what this is all about. This morning, when we listened attentively to the transcript of the debate on the working body, we thought about the following: To what rights would those who would be entitled in the process, as set out in this article, be entitled? What rights? That's a key question. When we went to see through the laws this morning, we were deprived of one law and one right given by the National Assembly to those who would receive permanent residence back. And that is what we are now interested in: Is our interpretation correct? The National Assembly adopted a law on the ratification of an agreement on succession issues on 8.8.2002. I don't know, I'm sorry, we haven't seen this law in these texts. But, of course, this law also has annexes. For example, Annex e: Each State shall assume responsibility for pensions to which its nationals, who have been nationals or military personnel, are entitled, and so on, not to mention. [[...]] The pension shall be paid by the country in which such a person is resident. This is of interest to us whether, therefore, a direct link to the content of this article, and the fact that someone is granted permanent residence back, or can, on the basis of this provision of the law, regardless of whether we have entered into the law, that there is no compensation for being entitled to it. There's no exception in marriage. And one more thing. Then we went to look at the debate on the working body when this law was being addressed, this international treaty. This international treaty has entered into force in some elements, but not yet in all, because Croatia has not yet ratified it, but when it does, it will enter into force. The question was raised in the debate. And look at the response of the government representative: "As far as pensions and housing are concerned, nothing has changed. This is where the Republic laws apply, as you have adopted them. This text is so, written perhaps a little vaguely, but as far as pensions and housing are concerned, it is already written in the republican laws; it is nothing new; no new right is given, no new apartment is given, no new pension is granted. This is a matter that has already been determined by the Republic Act." This is said to be the way we are correcting the case backwards, and on the basis of this explanation, we give the justification that these beneficiaries may also apply pensions in this case. If the answer is yes, then I can find out that in this segment the law does not solve this issue, because the law is not mentioned. Other laws are mentioned. This law, which gives this right back, is not mentioned in our main system law. Unfortunately, we didn't find out until this morning. I would also like an answer from a government representative, or our interpretation holds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u78	I'm giving a word for the replica to my colleague Ptræ, who you personally referred to.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Comrade Podobnik, you mentioned me and you mentioned me incompletely because I was thinking of a lot of other things that you silenced again. Indeed, the Constitutional Court points out that this is once again an open call for non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision; this is also the case with the requirements you have. That we think that in this case it is only a matter of the legitimacy of the Constitutional Court, but it reminds us that it is a question of the legitimacy of the rule of law. Indeed, as you said, it is necessary to respect the decision so that it can be supplemented or amended only through constitutional law. Just don't say he's warning, he's not threatening, he's warning because he doesn't know what it's gonna be like to have a constitutional judgment in this case. And you have silenced something of the most important: that individual rights have already been given by the Constitutional Court with its decisions and that, whether we adopt the law or not, it is possible to enforce these individual rights as soon as these individual rights can be enforced; if they cannot be enforced by constitutional law before our Constitutional Court, this can be enforced before the European Court of Justice. Sooner or later, he says - I'm just quoting what he says - the decision of the Constitutional Court will have to be enforced. However, I am not saying that I would not be prepared in much, Mr Podobnik, we have also sat together, looking for a solution to be found, as you say, by different arrangements for the enforcement of the decision. It is only the demands that appear today that we must say that a constitutional decision is not that anyone has not implemented it by 25 February 1992 that there is no right to request requests again, although the Constitutional Court has made it clear otherwise, that the limits on which it is appropriate to discuss them are probably those of the State Assembly. Today, talking about the issue of compensation is something other than two months ago. Today we all wrote together practically that there is no compensation. Today, talking about individualization is something else, because everything will be identified individually and it would be right for you to finally say these things, but not that it is about creating one atmosphere that can't lead anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u80	Comrade Podobnik, paragraph 70, says that the replica is not possible unless, in this case, the President, I, I, of course, assess that the references in the replica were incorrect. Whether you will promote the accuracy of the statement, that is all you have the right to a replica and then we will close this discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u81	Thank you, President. My colleague Potts totally misrepresented me, because I did not take him into account, which he spoke of the opinion of the President of the Constitutional Court. I only appointed him to propose to us that we read today's performance at the press conference. Everything else, his interpretations, what I'm supposed to be saying, that's not what I'm saying, and my colleague Potsch abused the replica. That's not what I was talking about, Comrade Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u82	Here we have closed this debate, Comrade Podobnik. We continue our discussion. Comrade Petty Officer has the floor. I ask for peace, we continue patiently with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your word. Today's press conference by the President of the Constitutional Court shows how the Constitutional Court actually came up against the legislative authority. He's suspending, continuing to suspend, trying to suspend the decision of the National Assembly. That's definitely it. If we take this into account, if we assume it, then we do not need this national assembly, because instead of a national assembly on fundamental rights, the Constitutional Court will decide everything. Maybe even just the President of the Constitutional Court. These are, of course, difficult things and not enough to say, politicisation of the Constitutional Court. No, this is about majorisation, the supremacy of the Constitutional Court over constitutional matter and Parliament. Of course, everyone is responsible for such statements. I must say again, I would stress that if everyone were to do their work in the way that the Constitution told him, then there would be no such conflicts, even this complexity that we now have, would not exist. We have repeatedly highlighted the way this conflict could be resolved and the complexity involved. Individualization. Here we agree completely with each other. Each case must be checked through an undisputed procedure. What's the difference? The difference is that you regulate in a manner of official duty, that everyone should be given something that they may not need, something that may no longer exist, that no longer lives, something that is not good for anyone, because he has arranged his life differently, in another country, where there is another citizen. This opens up major problems in port issues, in ownership, in short, in specific lives. That would be contrary to the interests of a foreigner. That is also why we are opposed to such a solution. If anything, then it is necessary for each individual to express his or her will. Secondly, what has already been mentioned by colleague Janš, if something happened at the time either because of the wrong or inappropriate conduct of civil servants or if there were any objective circumstances in which applicants could not provide the documents by which they could also achieve their will in the procedure laid down in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that this is clear to all citizens and that they also agree with this kind of resolution, not under duress. At the time of creation, the State of Slovenia was firmly determined to regulate the records. She made that clear with the law. She also informed the citizens that she intended to do so. All those who wanted it settled. Our country has voluntarily provided citizenship to all those who wanted it. Take a look at Europe's views on how to allocate citizenship to people. They didn't do anything like that. It wasn't in Estonia, it wasn't in Latvia, it wasn't in Estonia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u84	Dear colleague Petty Officer. If you will all repeat another debate, I will read once again Article 1 what is written in it, what is the purpose of the regulation of Article 1 and the amendment to this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u85	Let us read Article 1, and you will see that it relates [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u86	Please discuss the content of Article 1 whether you therefore disagree with it and have tabled an amendment to delete this Article. [[...]] Let us be so receptive to the great work we have ahead of us. We are going in order not to go into Articles 14, 15 and I do not know which article we are in when we are in Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u87	In the third indent, the law stated this because this matter is legally regulated by law, those who regulate the status of citizenship, the status of a foreigner, as referred to in Article 1, Mr President. So I'm holding on to that. But I mentioned how it was with the granting of citizenship. Then the categories that have had the opportunity to settle themselves in accordance with the law on foreigners are their status. The Constitutional Court simply went through a fundamental constitutional charter, which we now see. Therefore, it is also perfectly legitimate at this national assembly to regulate this legal matter by means of constitutional law, so that it will not be disputed. And it was also our suggestion that these unresolved matters be regulated by constitutional law. You're saying the referendum is pointless. This confirms your claim, so if it makes no sense, then you have incorporated the content that is in the implementation of the 8th point and is subject to the technical law into this law. It makes sense, if anything. It was also clear from the legislative and legal services that the text, legal matter, in the technical law is not related to the system law, is not related, is not contested. This means that the referendum question is justified and will be decided on. But if it's not up to you, then the law enforcement department has been telling the truth. That's the logic of it. So, let's re-emphasize. Anyone who wishes to settle a status needs to be made available to demonstrate his will and then determined through the procedure whether his rights have been violated. Some, however, decided differently at the time of the decision and left Slovenia. The State of Slovenia has identified the status of these citizens. She got the answer that they weren't here. And as a means of protecting the status and regulation of the state, she called for this to be settled. Those who didn't want to, that was their will, didn't settle. The deleted, so-called, had the opportunity to regulate this status under one or the other law. Now, with a proposal for a text that we have drafted as a text for any constitutional law, they have been given another opportunity to do so on the legal path and on the undisputed path. That's it. I too have received many letters in which people describe their distress. Among this category of deleted, not among these, the category of deleted are, of course, citizens of II as well. World War II. In accordance with the principles of equality of treatment of all persons, these persons should also be included in the law. That didn't happen. Some categories of disabled, deaf people who have lost their jobs in classrooms have been deleted. In classrooms where some 30 years worked, they lost their jobs, lost everything. And so do you. To these there is no understanding, but our citizens are in trouble, but there is no time for these. Let us therefore be righteous, build a legal state, treat people equally, on equal terms, and this is our wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u88	Thank you very much. My colleague Maja Zupan now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! In my contribution, I would rely on three points which are connected, because I am sure, Mr President, that you respect the equality of men and women in this Parliament, I expect that you will not interfere with my debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u90	It's not because you're a woman, it's because you're one of our colleagues, and we all have the same rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u91	Thank you very much. First, I would like to refer to the amendment to Article 1. The fact is that with the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal status of all former SFRJ citizens from other republics who had previously enjoyed the same rights and obligations in the Slovenian territory as locals has changed. It is worth recalling, however, that in the former SFRJ each had dual citizenship, SFRJ and the Republic where it was registered in the mother book. Notwithstanding national citizenship, each citizen could move freely, have employed or obtained permanent residence anywhere in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. However, I cannot agree with the issue of the government proposal that immigrants who previously had permanent residence in Slovenia as citizens of the SFRJ and after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia have not been bound by its nationality were not obliged to apply for residence permits for non-residents. As in every country, foreigners in Slovenia must apply for a temporary or permanent residence, which is then granted to them from the date of such application or request. I do not support such solutions, but I support the first amendment or support the amendment to Article 1 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and the New Slovenia Group, which calls for the article to be deleted in its entirety as regards the conditions for permanent residence. The other thing I would like to mention is the reason for today’s extraordinary session. Today, when it is absolutely clear that the referendum on the technical law on so-called deleted will be considered at an extraordinary meeting requested by a group of Members, the second system law to be included on the agenda of the regular February session. The presentation of public opinions on the system law has been made, so the law is in the second phase, which will in fact be dealt with at an extraordinary meeting and dealt with. The Group of Members justifies such an unusual path by stating that, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the issue has been deleted, which is intended to be unwarranted and deliberately politicised, as the most important topic has been occupied and poisoned by the Slovenian public, so that it can be resolved as soon as possible by the adoption of a system law, including some new solutions. That the so-called deleted are the most important subject is certainly not the fault of the opposition. Colleagues and colleagues of the ruling coalition did not want to listen to the warnings and proposals of the opposition, you chose to regulate the subject in two laws, while insisting on your decisions, although it was clear from the outset that most citizens and citizens do not agree with your solutions You did not give up even for a millimeter, even though it would be reasonable to resolve such a problem by consensus of the opposition. That the topic has poisoned the Slovenian public, as the group of Members put it, is already a little too much. Who put labels on those who objected to such a solution as you suggested? You called us impatient, xenophobic, or worse, and that's the poison you spilled among the Slovenes. You are trying to adopt the System Act as soon as possible and you are prepared to adopt some of our proposals for a review of damages, even though you did not want to hear about this before. We are aware that this is an extremely complex and complex subject, taking into account constitutional principles, the principles of natural law and public interest. Once again, I regret to find out that this is a general feature of your voting power in the National Assembly that you will achieve your political objectives without compromise, regardless of the consequences. In all these years, you do not want or can't find a way to negotiate compromise agreements on how to achieve consensus through mediation of interests. Our solution, or the solution I see, would be in constitutional order. This would be the best option for a Constitutional Court decision to be respected to the greatest extent and, on the other hand, to prevent an intervention in the constitutional order. The third thing I'd like to mention is the procedure. The suspensions of today's session indicate that the rules of the game are being put to the opposite, which is nothing more than the playing out or adapting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. This is not a procedure that would lead to good solutions, so I also completely reject it. It is also interesting that several times the question was raised as to whether the solutions in the system law were covered by a solution to the technical law. Law enforcement thinks the law doesn't cover anything. It follows from this that the referendum will not be without meaning, as you claim it will have legal consequences, because everything that was in the marriage remains what it was. Therefore, we are convinced that it is right that we have decided on this path. But we wanted to create a law in the procedure itself that would be acceptable to everyone and would not create differences between people. I am sure that citizens and citizens will be able to make the right decision at the referendum and thus show how they feel about this authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u92	It's Aloys Sok's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u93	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! With such a warm darkness, it is difficult to endure and speak only what you like in the ruling coalition that you have cooked this matter. And I understand that it is difficult for you to listen to some arguments and I also expect that you will always, like some of my predecessors, intervene in the debate itself; however, as much as you can follow this amendment to Article 1 and Article 1 is essentially talking about the whole content of the law, because it speaks of all those who are supposed to be covered by this law. The first thing I want to say and what I'm very concerned about is how our constitutional court works. I am very sorry that we did not draw up a balanced constitutional court when we appointed constitutional judges and warned the opposition about this. This Constitutional Court, which has today ruled on such important matters in this country, is of course not so complex, and the result is also the decisions taken by this Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u94	Comrade Sok, only if I may interrupt. As far as possible, both for you and for everyone else, let us stick to the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u95	If the Constitutional Court had not ruled as it did, there would not be a debate here today. For the Constitutional Court has, in fact, given an opportunity for an additional period of time, even though it has found that the time frame for a technical law to be judged was delayed, decided and finally decided as we had foretold in the opposition. But, of course, it gave you the opportunity, I don't know, a few weeks ago, to then study in the ruling coalition, to go over how you're going to get this thing done, so I mentioned it. I think that's one of the things to mention. Another matter of great concern to me is how the rules of procedure are played in this national assembly. So, in fact, as in the ruling coalition feeds, so interpret the rules of procedure, even though at the time when the Rules of Procedure were adopted, you argued that this was a modern European policy, but we see that this is not the case, and I fear what will happen after 1 May 2004, when Slovenia becomes a de facto member of the European Union and when we will have to implement some cooperation between Parliament and the government and act together in Brussels. I will shorten my debate, Mr President, as you say, but these are the facts that come out and work on this work and I want to point out that this is not a good way to work. It's just not good, and since it's not good, it can't have a good solution. What is third and I would like to point out is the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. So far, however, you have repeatedly told us that the referendum on technical law does not solve anything and that this will be resolved in the system law, but today the legislative and legal service writes that the content of the system law before us and the technical law awaiting the referendum are not connected in any way. They're not connected to anything - it's the wrong world! As a Member at this moment, I no longer understand how to make this difficult, and how to be embarrassed by the embarrassment that we are being brought into, understood by our citizens and citizens. So all that the minister here, when talking about the system law in its entirety, spoke about the technical law, about the category that is supposed to be given citizenship under technical law, is not applicable. Neither is it obvious that the compensations, although they will be limited in this law, if these two documents do not have any substantive connection. The opposition has constantly sought to settle this issue in constitutional law, and so has the position of the State Council, but all is in vain. All attempts to come to this have failed, simply the government, Minister Bohinc, and the ruling coalition will not agree. And one wonders why. I have the same answer: I think the answer is that all this time this opposition is trying to show itself as an opposition that is unable to cooperate, that it is trying to make this opposition seem xenophobic, and I must say that the media is helping you in what makes me very sad. If I could just take a look at today's newspaper, I could get a lot of these records here. Such insults, such as those written by Mr Boris Vezjak in this evening, have no basis. If we look differently at the solution to this problem, with what right does the journalist write down, I, Mr. President, will read some of these records [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u96	Please, everyone can read this and I suggest you don't refer, you just mentioned this text and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u97	Look, I have no choice but to deny this matter here before the National Assembly because I feel like an insult. If someone calls me "irrational xenophobic." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u98	Comrade Sok, of course, just not at this point. I beg for peace in the hall, Comrade Jerovšek. Let us stick to the text of the amended proposal of the law and as much as possible to Article 1. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u99	I've already told you in the beginning that you're going to interrupt me, and I guess I was right. "Irationalism of xenophobia in pure form comes regularly from right-wing and conservative customers", in brackets [[SDS, NSI, SLS]] and self-proclaimed civil society initiatives as their satellites." And then: "The incredibly broad-minded are served by the enemies of deleted Muslims, homosexuals, because they hide their opinions behind supposed professional opinions and arguments, and often fall into patriotic mental care. That's the kind of pose they used to go to in particular. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u100	My friend Sok [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u101	"become especially right-wing intellectuals who stereotypically paint figures" [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u102	Comrade Sok, please look for the patience of all [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm just warning you, of course, you can read a lot of time, I'm asking you not to read anymore. Anyone who wants to look at this text will look at it. If you wish, you will answer it, but I suggest you do not argue with the text at the meeting. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u103	Mr President, I understand you, I also understand your fellow Members, but understand that such grave insults, when someone mixes everything, erased, mosques, same-sex partnerships, homosexuals [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u104	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u105	Yes, it's in the newspaper and for all of this we, listed parties: Nova Slovenija, SDS and Slovenian People's Party. [[...]] What country, though, do we live in so that someone can show this opposition, which together does not represent a quarter of this House? It's a sad story! But you don't even want to hear it, let alone do something to keep it from happening and it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u106	Comrade Sok, let's get back to the subject of discussion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u107	Okay, I'll get it over with. But I'm telling you, it's not fair and it's not right. We have only offered our vision and our views on the solution to this. We are aware that the issue of deleted should be resolved. We are aware and have repeatedly said that some of these deleted have experienced injustices, that these matters need to be rectified. At the same time, we argued that there are many speculators among them, but they simply do not. Slovenia has too many of its major problems. If I go to the area of compensation now, of course, people are most interested, and that is why they are also the most revolutionary. In Slovenia, unemployment is increasing, social disparities are increasing, regional disparities are increasing; the abolition of jobs is forecast due to all the conditions we will have to meet in order to join the European Union. On the other hand, some categories of citizens who have speculated and who are enshrined in the technical law and who will not be covered by this system law - should have some opportunity to claim large compensation from this country. I just want to say two more things, Mr President, in the context of this, I hope that you will not interrupt me again. See, on 20.12.2000, you passed an amendment to the law on pension and disability insurance in Parliament. All pensioners today know that without this change in 2000 their pensions would be increased by 13.2%. With the change, pensions only increased by 4.8%. If you multiply this difference, 8.4 times 12, you get that every pensioner in 2001 lost one pension, and of course because of the difficult financial conditions prevailing in that country. Let me also say that before the elections, there was a lot of talk that the Bajuk government would do this if it accidentally took power after the elections in 2000. And the downward trend continues. In the last 27 months, pensions have risen only by 10.5% and 4.6% on average for this period.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u108	Comrade Sok, pensions are not the subject of discussion. I understand your message. Look. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u109	I want to prove how this country doesn't have the money to pay the damages. We have been able to hear from Mr. Todorovich that he will demand a 10-million-dollar compensation. And on TV, he even said that when he got it, when he had it in his pocket, he was going to give it to Karitas. I myself have heard this, so to speak, Mr Todorovic is not alone and the only citizen counting on it. This increased the differences between the average wage of employees and the average age pension. In 1990, this was 89.2% and in 2003 only 69.4%. Gentlemen, you're in power. You're having a hard time hearing these arguments. In LDS, when you came to power, you owed this country one billion euros each year. Economic Institute published data in December 2003 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u110	My friend Sok, can I help you? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u111	published information that we owe 12.8 billion euros. [[...]] 12 years [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u112	Comrade Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u113	You're in the area. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u114	Comrade Sok! Are you so kind? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u115	Every year for one billion euros. Who's it going to be, I ask?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u116	Do you mind if I cut into your words?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u117	If that's how we're going to solve these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u118	Comrade Sok! Are you being kind, and me just for a moment? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u119	I'll finish it, Mr. Chairman. I'll finish because I can tell you some more truths on your account, and of course you're very worried and it hurts. We, as far as the opposition is concerned, will do everything in New Slovenia to make amends to injustices, but that those who have not settled the matter in time will have greater rights than those who have done so, and we will not agree to this under any circumstances. And I hope that Slovenian citizens and citizens will help you to resolve this matter fairly and honestly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u120	Look, before I give my word to my fellow seal, let me say it again. Both to a college where, without objection, a position was adopted not to limit the debate as it is here in the majority, the position was adopted not to limit the debate. I immediately said that, of course, it meant a great responsibility for everyone, including mine, to conduct a meeting under such circumstances. I ask you to stick to the subject of the debate, because otherwise I must cut into the debate and point out that this is not the subject of discussion. Please. I'm asking here to take this into account that I won't have to do this too many times. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u121	Your Honors are here! Allow me to introduce two things. First, at least on my behalf, Mr Pahor, all congratulations on today's leadership, because you are actually allowing a debate on deleted persons; that is, those actually within the framework of the law and those accompanying it. And, of course, criticism of government Members who cannot understand the debate. Furthermore, I would like to take a part of the sentence spoken by my colleague Zupanov before me, that she, on behalf of equality before sex, asks you not to interrupt it, I, on behalf of the age groups, hope that the representatives of the Party of Youths, who are not already present all day, will not resent it, equally please do not interrupt me. In the National Party, and personally, we estimate that, in terms of the content of the law referred to in the first article, today, there has been a serious mistake in that we have even placed the item on the agenda. The fact is that Slovenia, Slovenian politics, the Slovenian government, had a normal and, according to our assessment, the only legal possible way is to stop the system law as long as the referendum does not take place, and that this referendum on the one hand, Parliament, on the other hand, the Slovenian Government, should respect it in the form expressed by the referendum will. And based on this referendum will write a law that will reflect the opinion of the Slovenians and Slovenes. The fact is that we have decided for the referendum only because we see that Slovenian policy has not matured enough to resolve the issue of so-called self-removed persons. The fact is that both genders in this case are the opposition, which, according to my assessment, of course advocates the values of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and of Slovenia, and, on the other hand, the generosity of government parties to the people of the former republics of Yugoslavia, which I personally think is wrong. In order to keep this country credible within the European Union, we should be aware of who we are and what we want and not of what this country wants, in every way, for each fling on its shoulders, to bring about this kind of issue of its own history, and, on the other hand, in as large a financial framework as we will expect if the Members of the ruling parties adopt those laws and if you keep your word that the referendum and with this will you will not take into account citizens and citizens. In the National Party, we have tried to cooperate in different ways with regard to the content of Article 1 of this Law. At the beginning of last year, we took the initiative in the Constitutional Court, but unfortunately, the Constitutional Court refused us an initiative in the sense of 'no legal basis'. On the question of what the legal basis is for a Member to meet with a Constitutional Court, we were answered, "the legal basis is solely deleted," which, on the other hand, would mean that in that matter, i.e. my assessment of this disgrace for our country, a group of Members in the form of a request or, as regards an initiative, may negotiate equally with the Constitutional Court, solely a member of the Society deleted. In the National Party, we also assess that the convening of an extraordinary meeting itself is a bad thing. The National Assembly has met with this matter several times. He even put it cold for a while. At that time, he was involved in the matter or content of the deleted Prime Minister himself, Mr Rob, from whom we probably all in the opposition naively expected him to come up with any idea, with what solution, and it turned out that after fourteen days of delay and discussion he was only looking for time to try, in my opinion, this country "to move around" and offer her what not her history and not her future does not. Also, last week, the Slovenian government's abject operation highlighted Mr Lavrinc in the form of leading an internal policy committee and prevented a substantive debate on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u122	Let's avoid qualifications, Comrade Pec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u123	I'm sorry. You. On the other hand, the story of self-exposure in the Slovenian space is quite long, or members of this society have been trying to enforce it backwards since 1992, when, according to our assessment or according to data obtained by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in 1992, the Republic of Slovenia issued 180,000 new citizenships and between 1992 and 1995, 35,143 temporary residence permits and 2,856 permanent residence permits. This information proves that whoever wanted to, in our country, they could have arranged for it. According to our assessment, there are two groups left: people who speculated on citizenship and people who simply did not want to have their status regulated for that or that reason. And according to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ruling parties are trying to come solely against the wishes of these people who did not want to have settled status in the past. In the National Party on this basis, we believe that there has been no deletion. And if there is no deletion, the Constitutional Court should also be aware that their decision on the basis of the said law and article 1, which bears the sub-title "the substance of the law", is that the decision of the Constitutional Court should not be easily written. That the decision of the Constitutional Court must also take into account the actual situation of the situation. And the situation was created, but unfortunately the Constitutional Court did not take into account the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, accompanied by independent legislation. And our own own legislation has been praised or praised by all parties, including the European Union or the UN, where they have marked the self-sustaining legislation, including the law on foreigners, as standard and in accordance with EU rules on the one hand, as well as the rules of the United Nations. In the National Party, we estimate that the original quality sin is in the decision of the Constitutional Court or in the functioning of the Constitutional Court, but that it has led to the downtrodden action of some of the most greedy of all lawyers, or something similar, which had the contents of the problem of self-exposure in the hands of four years as constitutional judges - Mr Krivic. After four years of delay, they become or fall from the status of constitutional judge to the status of representative of a society deleted. And on the basis of this behaviour and on the basis of this practice, they enforce and exploit - in my opinion - the in wisdom of the Constitutional Court and cast this country through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the final stage through the public controversy in the state where we are today. Where one part of Slovenian policy, i.e. ruling parties - United List, Liberal Democracy, DeSUS and the Youth Party - are trying to achieve the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, they should in return even distort the rest of Slovenian legislation. In return, let them distort the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, that other part of Slovenian politics, the National Party, which claims and seeks to ensure that of course there was no erasure. The Republic of Slovenia refers to the beneficiaries of the "justiciable" law referred to in Article 1 of the said Act, which we are facing today, without giving any material and non-material forms of compensation. To simply admit and say: the conquest took place, people had the opportunity to make a decision. Some have decided differently on purpose, this is their problem, not our country's problem, not the problem of the Slovenian budget today and not the problem of Slovenian budgets in the future. We are at the National Party on these matters, as regards the content of the updated proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which had different concerns on this and that day and on the law, of course. At the first stage of the examination of this law, we stressed in the Slovenian National Party that the law is unacceptable without three basic criteria, without an unselective or selective approach. Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia today ensures that there is a possibility of a selective approach to the verification of the actual situation in the law, this is not true. In the existing proposal for a law, there is only conditionally a selective treatment, conditional. And we can't land at the National Party under such conditions. On the other hand, Mrs. Shirca, I would like to ask you to calm down, thank you. On the other hand, the compensation issue is still ongoing. Not long ago, Minister Bohinc convinced us that no compensation was necessary because there would be no compensation. Today, a few months later, he tells a completely different story. And worst of all, as the main argument, why two laws are needed, i.e. systemically and technically before time, he argued and thus, even the Ministry and the Slovenian Government, that decisions will not be passed by law. And it will not take three months for the Minister to go public through the newspapers, through the media, even through the Prime Minister and some members of the Liberal Democracy to threaten that the decisions will begin to be passed by law, although we all know that decisions passed by law are not to be issued in our country on the basis of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. But, of course, nobody has anything; on the one hand, the Minister does this, on the other hand, addresses the National Assembly with another content, and on the other hand, he prepares the third content together with the Prime Minister, Mr Rob. We have, of course, asked Mr Bohinc to resign several times in the National Party. We estimate that such work is not only a bad example for citizens and citizens of our Republic, not only a bad example in the sense that it is shown that Slovenian legislation can be played, but mainly because it succeeds without sanctions, because the fact is that if a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia did it without the status of a member of the Liberal Democracy, the United List or the Minister, it would have long been sanctioned. And that is, above all, the sad story of the names of those who have been erased.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u124	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u125	Excuse me, Mr. Pahor, I'm not finished yet. The latest developments in the last month and a half clearly indicate that this country is in fact in all the failings of life in our society governed exclusively by government policy. It has clearly been shown that the basic provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speak of the division of power in three branches: legislative, executive and judicial authority, because the fact is that the Prime Minister, in my opinion, has already obtained the status of representative of the society deleted, has allowed the Constitutional Court to order what it should decide, even more, for their decisions he knew earlier. So in our country, not only did we lose contact with real law with the story of deleted ones, we lost contact with the rule of law principle, but we came to a stage where one person through his elbows reaches to play law. It is true that the importance of the legislative branch of power is irrelevant. Who, then, do we adopt laws for if the main actors in this country do not stick to them? We have a constitution in our country and we have a law on referendum and human initiative. I don't know how the Prime Minister, Mr Rop, and the Minister, Mr Bohinc, can say or say that the referendum is irrelevant to them. The referendum, as a form of the most democratic possible decision, when in fact because of our own incompetence of the entire national assembly, because we do not find a solution that is to be proud of citizens and citizens, not proud of the Liberal Democracy, says that he will not take this instrument of democracy into account. The error, the scale or ignorance of Slovenian politics is because the Slovenian government estimates that it is dedicated to itself. The purpose of every government, whether it comes from this side or from that side, is to serve the people and people. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, we will not serve the people by adopting laws that will allow financial consequences that the government is not aware of. However, something else would be possible if the government were able to communicate in those areas which are important, with the judiciary, to agree on some form of legal practice, to know what the financial consequences of possible adoption mean - no, then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia builds a wall around it and says that the judiciary is untouchable when it is necessary to dictate the content of the decisions, and then the judiciary is not inviolable. But of course, there is a group of Members who play several times or try to play a referendum or referenda to the Constitutional Court in the context of Article 1 of the Act. Within the framework of the National Party and within the framework of the law or, I apologize, I must say on my behalf that, of course, I do not intend to support the law. I still believe that there will be so many Members and Members who believe in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia who believe in the referendum and who hope to admit that the policy in this area has fallen. We have not found consensus in politics, nor has the law been written on the basis of consensus, as was said at the outset, but the fact that this is an individual, copyright work intended solely to satisfy some of the self-exterminations in our country, which I personally consider to be the opposite and a disgrace to this country. I don't intend to support the law. I believe in the referendum. Once again, for the last time today, I stress that we should all respect the referendum will of the government in particular. And don't talk in advance, but I, as Prime Minister, or I, as Minister Bohinc, will not respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u126	They will be given the word of their colleague Vizjak, colleague Potrč and colleague Krebs. First of all, the replica given by a colleague of Shirca was mentioned in the debate by a colleague of Pečet, it is formally true, I know that she was mentioned in the sense that she is referring to you. Comrade Shirca, I'm giving you a brief opportunity to explain, and then I'm excluding further controversy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u127	I object to the remarks made by my colleague, Mr Pečet, citing that I am not calm, I am completely calm, but I must admit that I am very concerned. Mr President, I am concerned about the way in which the debate is taking place under a certain amendment, and I stress only that it is not a general debate, that it is not a matter of presenting the groups of Members and the views that it is not a postal mailbox of readers, because we have the right to reply and correction in the media, and that it is not a place where electoral debates or campaigns are conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u128	I propose that we continue to present our views on the first amendment to the amended bill. A colleague of mags. The Vizjak has his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, Article 1 speaks of the content of the law and speaks of the fact that this law regulates a few indents of the conditions for obtaining a permanent residence permit and, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment to this Article and propose that this Article be deleted. We think or think personally that the problem of so-called deleted is apparent I am convinced that most of these 18,000, or so many and so many cases, for which the so-called technical law and later the system law are supposed to be drawn up, are essentially about regulating the status and consequently also about rights for people who are in fact not in the critical time of Slovenian history when Slovenia gained independence, to take care of their status. However, I believe that there has also been some injustice, and it is right that we should also formally correct these injustices. That is why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are proposing a law of a constitutional nature that could also prevent or eliminate what may have been wronged in the past, according to the position of constitutional judges. Of course, this law, which is debated today, and this law to which we have tabled an amendment, does not, of course, regulate the problem of these so-called possible injustices in the past, but regulates the status of a certain number of people who could have settled their status during the period, but is likely to have made a different decision; he also made a different decision because of the situation they were in Slovenia at the time. Many of these did not believe in Slovenia, did not believe that this country would succeed on its own path, that it would be able to secure an economic status better than other countries of the former common country, and, of course, after a certain period of time, they were sorry or changed their minds and, of course, now many of them would like to settle the status backwards. Of course, it's not just a status, I'm sure, it's also a consequence of compensation, and this is also the law that regulates it, and this is also Article 1 of it. However, I think that we are here as legislators or proposing very unfairly to a number of structures of Slovenians who have clearly experienced injustices in the past. Finally, these are the decisions of the Constitutional Court to mention just one thing: this is the decision on the income of the Constitutional Court, which speaks of the benefits for children, and we have not been able to settle this in almost a decade. Of course not, it is the attention and interest of the United List, the Liberal Democrats, or the proponents to regulate the status of this particularly sensitive set of people, those who are, I would say, quite well [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] influenced the Slovenians. [[..]] I think that this is a bad way to go and that it would be appropriate to seek compromise in this resolution. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, they were prepared to resolve compromises at that time, but no; the government has rushed us, introduced us into law, convened us, or Members and Members of Parliament to convene an extraordinary meeting and, of course, the result is that you do not want to resolve this problem in a compromise, with consensus, but that a solution is imposed, which I think is bad. I would also mention something that should probably stand in this Article 1 but does not stand, and these are also for me or have a category deleted, and these rights have been deleted. We are talking about Slovenian citizens, I am talking about those who receive pensions under Croatian laws, who are actually living difficult today because they live in the situation of Slovenia, pay all the costs here, and, of course, have a Croatian pension that is much lower than Slovenian, although they have worked in a common country and they are nothing to blame for being in such a state as - but no, we forget about you! This is also a category to which we have erased or deleted by the then government by signing an agreement on this payment of social and pensions in such an unacceptable way that, of course, today they are difficult to live and pressure on everyone but, the government is not interested in solving these problems, but is touching and regulating only those conditions for obtaining permanent residence permits in Article 1. [[...]] I mean, if we're talking systematically about removing some of the problems, it would be a little bit broader to go into. Finally, there are quite a few injustices that are already taking place, and the government is of little concern to resolve these injustices, and they would be dealt with earlier because they concern our citizens. Of course, this law does not limit rights or reparations, although they are strictly limited by a number of other laws. Let me just mention exile, which is a limited compensation. The exiles are limited to 2 million tolars. There's no limit here. I don't think that's right. I would point out something else, even in this House, there has already been a discussion and conclusions that no material damage is returned after the war: no one, not the exiles, not the partisans, not anyone else. And that is not what Parliament wants to return, no, here it wants to restore the status and everything that comes from this status to those who have turned their backs on Slovenia at some point. For me, the status of permanent residence in Slovenia as well as Slovenian citizenship is a great value, which is worth trying to meet a number of conditions in order to achieve this status. At least I would like this status to be gained by those who, after independence, have turned their backs on Slovenia, who have gone and now, because of their personal material hardships, have come back. I will therefore support this amendment, which we propose, and, of course, also contribute to the resolution of this problem in a different way, even formally in a more corrective manner, by means of a constitutional law that would, of course, solve these issues only in this scale of clearly established injustices. Because I believe I come from an environment where I know cases where injustices have occurred to some, but this circle is very, very narrow. That is why I think this is a very emotional debate and a very sensitive debate. This is not a technical debate, nor a debate on some, I would say, a very simple enforcement of decisions by the Constitutional Court, but it is much more than that, unfortunately, the ruling suit is unaware of and, of course, comes with such solutions to this Parliament and also causes a certain debate, which I do not wish to lead in any way, I do not intend to lead in the sense of any intolerance to anyone. All I want is for those who have been wronged to make amends, and for those who are likely to be significantly less than 18,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u130	Comrade Vizjak, I just want to ask you if I have any other obligations in this regard. Did you say you proposed or proposed a constitutional law? [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] That's different. [[...]] No, no, okay. Yeah, I get it. I understand. That's what I wanted to ask you. Thank you very much for explaining. My friend Potts has the floor, followed by her colleague Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u131	Thank you very much. With so much, I'd say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u132	No, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u133	fictitious facts, in the face of so many untruths that are being re-reported in public today, without the talkers who speak about them being married in any way because of their dishonesty, citing the facts may be too much. [[...]] But I'm going to say a few things. There are two amendments to Article 1, Mr President. The first to propose the deletion of Article 1 and then an amendment proposing the deletion of all articles in the law that are capable of amendment in relation to the text proposed on the working body. The explanation for both proposals is identical. Even if we delete only Article 1, it means that there is no more text on what this law governs, and it does not apply to anyone. This already means what is the objective of the amendment applicants to Article 1: That the law does not apply to anyone. However, if an identical explanation is adopted for all the articles that have been amended on the parent’s working body, there are still some technical solutions that cannot apply to themselves. Therefore, I would like to point out that it is a complete non-truth, a fabrication and a lie when many colleagues say they want to correct justifiable injustices. No! No! They are not prepared to correct any injustices if they take seriously their own proposal which they have tabled: all amendments are deleted, or all articles are deleted, or only Article 1 which regulates the content of the law itself. Gentlemen, we would like to show the situation in the explanation of the amendment to Article 1 in a way that they are themselves prepared for proper regulation of matters, preferably by constitutional law, but that we are not prepared for the content of the constitutional law. If you look closely at the explanation of Article 1, you will see what their request is. There's no need to talk about compensation anymore. Certainly not - because the proposal for compensation regulates. It is no longer necessary to discuss the renewal of the procedure - certainly not because the renewal of the procedure is allowed in any case: for the decisions already made and for the new ones. They no longer talk about the need to individualise the law for each individual - surely there is no need to do so, because all this proposal contains the law. It is no longer a matter of ensuring that no one who has actually lived since 25 February 1992 has resided in the Republic of Slovenia, every day, all the time, without giving this right - certainly not because all these procedures are foreseen. So what else are you talking about? On two issues, which you also explicitly write, "we will not recognise the decision to go back," although the Constitutional Court says, even in this last position of the President, that it is not at all a decision to go back, but it is a matter of establishing a status that was unlawfully withdrawn on 26 February. And this is one of the essential elements of this decision. If you do not admit it, do not acknowledge the essential content of the decision of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, you do not recognize the possibility of what is less severe, but also the explicit provision of the Constitutional Court that this right should be repaid because it has been unlawfully withdrawn because it has been withdrawn without a decision and without notice. That's the other one. And with this you can tell very clearly where the boundaries that we talked about when we talked about the constitutional law were also discussed - either from the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is not one, but there are five, there is still something left or there is not. Ladies and gentlemen, you're suggesting there's nothing left. That's possible. Maybe it is, just have some croissant and say it! Don't blind yourself to the rule of law, but don't admit anything. Therefore, the problem of the conversation we have is not a deleted problem, but a problem of how we talk about deleted ones. You have created an atmosphere that will be blamed if the issue of pensions is not resolved, if the issue is not resolved, unfortunately, for job losses, but for a number of other things. Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with the deleted. It would be right and I would like it if you were in power to solve all these problems as soon as possible. As the United List of Social Democrats, we have three years of co-responsibility for this authority, not all the years ago, but the pure demagogy with this is to link all the difficult problems that people are really facing so that, I will use the ugly term, it is against the deleted who are guilty of such a situation. Fatizm - unfortunately, I use the term used yesterday by Dr Matjaž Kmecl in the meeting he had, and I agree with him - fatalism that everything in this country sucks, because you have not participated in a few years in power, does not lead anywhere. The criticism of the opposition is justified and necessary, but must have a grain of reason. If it comes from unrealisticity, it returns to the one who does it A very beautiful Slovenian proverb says: whoever sows the wind reaps the wind. It may be that all these promises, which are being made in abundance today, will have to be fulfilled; then the problems will be very great and you will not be able to afford them. And a few little things that point to a complete lack of implementation. The assessment is that, in individual cases, the administrative authorities should be misbehaved. And if it goes, even if it doesn't tell you what inappropriate behavior is, or if someone looked at someone ugly or if it was possible to shout, because it was happening, but it's not a matter of legal regulation. Do not admit, however, that the Constitutional Court’s decision stated that it was an illegal act, that the decision to delete was illegal, that there were no notifications, no decisions that many had much later learned about the situation. It is very artificial to ask that we, the government, the minister and the like, are saying that technical law is unnecessary because we link it to this system law. That's not true at all. That's not true at all. The technical law, we argue, is unnecessary because the Constitutional Court, after we have missed the deadline for evaluation, has said that it is not necessary to assess constitutionality by content, because you will have to make a decision by the Constitutional Court, no matter what happens with the technical law at the referendum. And today, the President of the Constitutional Court has repeated this. She said that the decision of the Constitutional Court would have to be implemented soon. So don't talk about anything else that's not content. Now I'm going to stop at the end of the gravest lie that's not true just because the opposition tells it. This is the fact that the debate on deleted interference with independence. No, ladies and gentlemen, that's a long way from being true. When we adopted an agreement by political parties, we promised in it before plebiscite citizens and citizens and others who lived in Slovenia, among others, the following. The Republic of Slovenia will ensure that Italian and Hungarian nationalities, as well as all members of other Yugoslav nations, do not change their political status because of the plebiscite decision. After the independence of Slovenia, they became foreigners and it is not possible to say that Article 13 is, however quickly reads, that this Article 13 regulated anything for the period after February 25, 1992. Be correct, read and you will see that it has only been settled by 25 February 1992 and assumed that by then they have rights as former citizens. After February 25th, however, they no longer have the rights of the former citizens, but did not say that they have any rights, especially that their right of permanent residence is being taken away from them and that they will have to regulate it in a new way. He didn't say that, not to twist things. This is the gravest untruth that creates normal emotional feelings for citizens and citizens who have the world's independence, feeling that it should not be affected. It's just an extremely incorrect claim, it's a very cheap demagogy that can also come back thickly. None of us have the right to speak the truth, to change the facts that were right, well, properly adopted and to help correct within the most reasonable limits of the decisions that have been, I still believe, can be unwitting and unwittingly bad. The less we are willing to repair them, the less we can believe that they were truly unconscious and bad. I therefore believe that the amendment to Article 1 cannot be accepted. If we accept it, we lose the content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u134	Before I give you the word no replica is possible because [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I know we've already taken this, it's not possible and there's no basis for a replica and I can't give you a word, Comrade Sok, no, it's very clear in article 70 when it's possible to give a replica. I've already done it today, explained the business terms. It is not possible, this is a controversy, so there is the possibility that the debates are not limited and I will give you my word if you want. The word is from a colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is right to say that today we are discussing the system law, because in 1992, unfortunately, the country made a mistake to correct it in 2004, unfortunately, too late to fix it if we want to live as a young, advanced, independent country with this sin in fact. Why? We could not allow the regulation adopted in 1991 to make it possible for a group of people in the territory of our new independent country to live without any kind of paper without any status. We've talked about this a lot. As a matter of fact, I think that in some part of the opposition we have already agreed, so, Mr President, of course, I would like to resolve my confusion by agreeing with the opposition, because in fact I no longer know what opposition Members and Members of Parliament want. The amendments to this system law were tabled by the opposition two months ago. We have not addressed them because we have agreed with the opposition Members that it is right to have a public debate on the system law on this issue. This one happened, too. Then we had a second-reading hearing of the mother's working body, where, unfortunately, without the opposition, we identified ourselves to all the problems that had arisen on this issue until that moment. And these discussions, which could be of much greater quality with the presence of the opposition on the committee, we have tried to discuss and incorporate into this system law in our dialogue with their amendments. Why? Because of the well-respected opposition, we have trusted you with everything you have so far stated. This is about getting complementary decisions only those who have actually lived in the Republic of Slovenia since 1992. That is why we have prepared additions to the system law, which ensures that we have also adopted your amendments, which we find to be causing a redundancies, because again and again we stress the fact that no one who did not live in Slovenia will actually be given a decision or that people will only get it when they actually lived here. Because as a rule of law, we cannot allow people to live in our territory as objects - without any status. We trusted you the second time you were worried about the possibility of high compensation. We also stressed in the debate that it is a shame, of course, that the country made this mistake in 1992, that we are aware of this problem and that, as a responsible authority, we will try to protect the public benefits of the Slovenian state. That is why we have incorporated into this law provisions on illegality, on obsolescence, on the mandatory proof of causation, even though we have always stressed that this regulation, which in this part restricts actually injured persons, is listed in other regulations which also exist in our legal order. Anyone who knows some of the principles of civil law knows what this means, and the discussions in this direction have, of course, indicated all the solutions that point to obsolescence and so on. And last but not least, for immaterial damage, we even wrote in the law that money can't be paid. All because, I repeat, we believed that by compromise, when we put these solutions into the system law, we would come to what we all want in a constitutionally permissible way to solve this problem. Of course, we also believed that you did not object to correcting the wrongs that really happened to them. Again, Mr. Vizjak, today you confirmed it. For months, we've waited for you to tell us who you think suffered some kind of injustice. I am sorry, Mr Janša, that, of course, you said very insultingly today that maybe 10 illiterate cleaners. That's how I understood your argument that among those who may have experienced injustice, you mentioned 10 illiterate cleaners. That is how I apologize on behalf of Mr Janša. This congregation is not a place where people can be defined by education and sex as those who may deserve to be corrected for their wrongs. Then you have prepared, a respected opposition, this amendment today, from which it has emerged, and at least I can read from it, and of course Mr Potrč has come to the same conclusion that in fact you do not think that the injustices have occurred in any case. This follows from the explanation to your amendment to Article 1 if we read it very carefully. I will continue to try to explain it with answers to some of your claims, which, of course, need to be clarified. Of course, it has proved that, as the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as one of the government's parties, we have always been naive, because we really hoped that these concerns were yours and that if we put them into a system law, it will be possible to reach a constitutionally acceptable compromise and to settle this issue, which we owe not only for ourselves, but primarily for ourselves, especially for the people who have suffered the injustices and, lastly, for the reputation of the international community, which we must not hesitate to do with such a question, and to show ourselves that we are not able to resolve our own mistakes. We therefore offered you and installed solutions regarding the beneficiary circle, regarding compensations and, of course, we believed that it could not be your only interest to make a pre-election story that should last as long as possible. But unfortunately, this moment at least I finally lost hope that after considering the system law on the parental committee, when we adopted most of the amendments that you two months ago prepared that was your wish. Why? Because, first of all, you are today, so I am confused, I have tabled amendments to Article 21 of the System Law, which in half an hour to Articles 1, 2 and 4. So, I apologize, truly, believe me, I can become a Member of Parliament confused in all this, because my only interest is that as a legislator, as one of those who have a voice in this national assembly, of course I will resolve this problem. I would like to explain why those amendments that have been adopted and are included no longer really mean anything and why there are so many changes now. Madam President, of course, the problem is, when the Rules of Procedure are interpreted in a lengthy manner, even when the amendment is being considered, that is why we allow the Presidents to speak more broadly at a certain point, and therefore such a broad debate. Of course, when the next Member is given an opportunity, he insists that some questions that have been asked are truly unrealistic, and you have the opportunity when you get the word to explain them. Mr President, let me explain some of the things I have been able to write down, but let me explain because there is no other way. If the matter is broader, the rest of us have to be able to answer. An extraordinary meeting of several times, so today's session is supposed to be conducted according to you in contravention of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure expressly allow a quarter of Members to convene an extraordinary meeting without restrictive conditions, and this is even a constitutional norm. We are aware that the introduction of such a practice would not be recommended. However, honourable opposition Members, this is the only way to avoid another referendum on deleted ones, a month or two at a time. I argue that this was the excusable reason why we would be making unacceptable fun of Slovenian citizens and citizens if they were called twice to a referendum within the month, on the same subject and for a billion two hundred thousand of the tax money spent. We asked you publicly, we are going immediately to the regular meeting of the National Assembly if you and your initiative are to ensure that interested applicants do not launch a referendum on the system law. This is not the case, and let us wait a day or two, and we will see if this solution, which also contains the proposals of the amendments of the Members of the post, will experience a referendum initiative. And we're going to see how much honesty, in fact, is on your side, Your Honor. This is the only excusable reason that requires this kind of definition of this issue, Mr President, and not those referred to by colleagues. The unconstitutionality of the system law is not only the position of the legislative and legal service, but Mr Anderlič has already said what our position is. It is correct to say that those who received a permanent residence permit under the Aliens Act, based on Articles 17 and 41, and therefore were not obliged to prove their continued actual residence, were not provided for by the technical law alone. We argued all the time, and the intent of the Constitutional Court's decision was never such that the finding of residence would be given to anyone else but to those people who actually resided with us without regulated legal status. The system law has extended this rule of actual residence to all cases where actual residence has not been established and thus has enabled what you have been unjustifiably reading to us, an individual determination of the actual situation, as I have pointed out, is also in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. It is you who are proposing the referendum, which you have argued that if I were to accept the amendment, your amendment, that the actual situation should be identified, you would not have submitted a referendum initiative. Now we're putting this in, and I'm just wondering whether you're going to give a referendum initiative or not. And you should be the one to greet such a solution and say, at least one thing you've come to your senses. That's not gonna happen. And what is extremely important about this issue? The claim that the adoption and Article 13 of the Constitutional Act on the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument - the claim that the Constitutional Court repealed Article 13 and thus the adoption of the Constitution. I apologize, but independence was the country's greatest positive project. It was a desire for democracy, for development, and, no, please tell me that independence was a negative project. A project where we wanted to deprive the citizens of other republics of their rights at some point. And whoever claims that independence stands or falls by regaining the rights that have been seized or denied, does not really understand the civilisational potential of independence. Article 13 aligns the citizens of the former republics of the SFRJ of 25.2.1992 with other foreigners, I stress that they are equivalent, as did other foreigners who had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, and they did not have to be asked for it. This was not provided for by any regulation and not by Article 81 of the Aliens Act, which is set out in Article 13. Article 13 is thus, in my opinion, entirely within the framework of the humane approach to the citizens of the former Yugoslav republics, which was the red thread of the self-sustaining process and I think that this emphasis is indeed more than too much. The negotiations stopped at some point. The opposition says they stopped because of the guilt on our side. To the extent that I have been able to understand from the press conferences, which, instead of working together with us, you refer to these solutions at the working-body meeting and identify yourself on this issue. Mr Janša, you have requested us to withdraw the request for an extraordinary meeting, or you will not negotiate any more on the constitutional law. And unfortunately, we couldn't do that without indefinitely bringing about a solution to this problem. The responsible coalition cannot agree to deal with this matter for months just because it has been assessed by the Slovenian coalition that this is a good pre-election topic. However, we offered to negotiate all the time and offered that the text immediately changed into a constitutional law if we reached agreement on the content. I also apologize for the proposal of the State Council, the constitutional law, for your refusal, not ours, so that something would not happen again. Of course, it's a good pre-election topic. Really, Mr. Janša, they write to me too. And it is extremely, extremely, extremely painful for me to see people, because of your conclusions, of course, assessing that the time has come for all those who, of course, pursue various forms of bankruptcy, which we do not want to see as a time to resolve their problem at the same time when this regulation is being addressed. We are really trying to make Slovenia a social state. We have repeatedly stressed that we are running out, I reiterate, all the rules, the state budgets show that we are giving up a lot of public funds to solve social problems. There is never enough perfect justice, there is no perfect justice system. However, all the anger that people now feel for their tribulations has been swept away because you wanted it so badly is extremely improper. And in what, Your Honor, even according to the amendment you tabled today, do we differ? In the assessment and whether or not the deletion was lawful or illegal. The Constitutional Court found not only that the Foreigners Act of 1991 was inconsistent with the Constitution but also that the deletion was incompatible with the law. This did not make it an obligation to apply for permanent residence for those who already had it. The Slovenian Coalition insists, however, that the removal was lawful and therefore, as well as the follow-up to the amendment, recognises the right to return permanent residence only to those who have applied for it by 25.2.1992. This follows from the explanation of the amendment to delete Article 1. After months of claiming that injustices should be corrected only to those who have truly experienced it, you finally found out who they are. Those who have applied for status until the date of 25.2.1992. It may not be a coincidence, and the government would have been able to clarify more precisely that by this date, none of the deleted persons had applied for permanent or temporary residence. Therefore, the Coalition of Slovenia, by a special deductive method, came to it with the desired result: the injustice did not happen to anyone. Because we believe that injustice has happened that we are a rule of law, we will do everything possible to get the law adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u136	Janez Janša replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u137	I thank my colleague Krebs for naming me three times, but I assure her that we did not persuade Mr Ribič to write this decision last April and we did not launch these topics. Nor does it argue that we have not named cases in which the correction of wrongs might be justified. In a study by Mrs Jelka Zorn, the Peace Institute collected a number of such cases on the subject of "Abandoned, Legal Mistake or Ideology", one of which I will mention, states a statement by a man who was affected, saying: "The Lord remembered. In the meantime, my wife went to ask the head of the administrative unit, Mrs Irmo Pavlinič Krebs, how it could be that my citizenship was taken after 25 years of stay and how it could be possible to be expelled, and the complaint about the deprivation of citizenship is still pending in the court proceedings. She said I was the father of a minor and asked why they treated me like this. Chief Irma Pavlinič Krebs replied that there are many single mothers in Slovenia and that they have endured as well as she will. And my wife gave advice that it would be best for me to leave the country alone, or the police would throw me across the border. This lady is today a Member of the National Assembly and Vice-President of the National Assembly. Such a peace institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u138	As I ask, colleague Sok, first of all, allow me to ask you, because the time has been raised by my colleague Krebsova, because I have again as before in the case of a colleague of the '70s, or you will give an incorrect statement, only in this case will I give you, just for an incorrect statement. [[...]] Please, colleague Krebs. Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I want to correct two incorrect allegations. Yes, Mr. Janša, I'm not the one the deleted love me. At the time, I was serving as a civil servant, and I worked under the law in force at the time. That is why I can be so much more legitimately speaking about these issues and admit that injustices have been committed, that we have not recognized the status of people at some point. Mr. Jansha, that's right. The deleted do not love me, but I know that we have wronged people when we were working under the then applicable legislation adopted by Parliament in 1991. And if you want to keep going, I can apologize to them. That's the first one. In 2003, if I am not mistaken, Mr Ribičič participated in the work of the Constitutional Court. The basic decision was issued in 1999, if I am not mistaken. There Dr. Cyril Ribičič has not cooperated and please allow me to correct this misstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u140	Comrade Janša is reporting for the replica as well as colleague Sok for the procedural word. I want to say, when we had a similar case earlier, I prevented my colleague Potrć from giving a replica of his colleague. I have to do the same in this case. I can't give Janša a word for the replica. But if he does, because there is no limited debate, he wants a word, he will also get a word. Comrade Sok wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u141	Rachel's procedural proposal, Mr. President. I propose that, after Mrs Krebs's performance, you no longer interfere with the debate of our members in the opposition, because she spoke very widely, past Article 1, past the amendment, about the whole range of the problem, 26 minutes, and you have not once touched them. Please, or I respect that the lady is, but let the principles for all Members apply here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u142	Look, like I said, here's everyone's patience for the test. I am also trying to hold a meeting in such a way that, if I have two options to choose, or if I restrict or allow a debate, I will allow a debate. I haven't taken a word from any of you before, I've just warned you about the subject. However, since I did not do so, my colleague Krebs, I think she justifiably said that if I did not reach out to you and take the floor, then she has a chance to come to this. I believe that the debate can go on. Comrade Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I was going to start a little differently, but Mr. Potsch stressed and pointed to our side, "untruth, fiction and lies are that we want to correct the injustices in this country". That Mr Potz from his parliamentary group is pointing his finger at us, we have been working so hard in this country to correct certain injustices, but he has resisted it with all four of them, as we say at home, is something unheard of! That's the method, the technique, you receive a thief when the thief wants to cover up that he committed a crime, and it points to others with the finger "get the thief!" We have fought here, and we are also prepared in this matter. And we emphasize all the time, and we correct those who have done wrong. We are against the fact that in these laws you have turned into a cellophane and in every way possible a number of those who have fought against this country, who have been against the independence of this country, who have actually been speculators and calculators and are fighting only for privileges. You are well aware of this and are thus conducting this procedure. And the malicious use of people, the tact, the representation of others, is also evidence that you used Mr. Kmecl in this matter, as if he were the one on your side in this matter. Here I have a statement signed by Mr Kmecl from 18.4.2003, and he responded to this Constitutional Court decision among the first! And I mean, if we read what he signed up for, he'd already said there was some fatalism involved. And you misinterpreted it. He actually used that word. However, see what Mr Kmecl wrote, together with the co-signatory: "This is not only a politically extremely delicate but also a legally highly questionable intervention in the competence of the legislative branch of power and thus in the entire legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This intervention can seriously undermine the principle of trust in the law on which the rule of law is based. In the latter extreme, however, it is particularly an attempt to revalue the fundamental postulates of our statehood, and the reference to the naked legal technique in our firm belief is not even an excuse." I deeply agree with what is stated in this sentence - an attempt to revalue the fundamental principles of our statehood. Today, about 95% of Slovenian citizens agree. That's what all the polls show, and that's what upsets you the most. This plebiscite unity of Slovenians, which you call xenophobia and intolerance, but I ask you whether 95% of Slovenians and Slovenian citizens, including the 200 000 who have accepted Slovenian citizenship, are not Slovenian nationalities, can be xenophobics, impatiencers, fascists and so on, as we listen to insults at the expense of Slovenian citizens. Every day. This may have been a step further from colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who implicitly stated that if we do not give these rights back to various Aksentijevic, Marojevic and all those who have come so arrogantly against the Slovenian state, we will turn independence into a negative project. I think she interpreted it so much that in this case Slovenian independence will turn into a negative project. How is it possible to insult Slovenians or Slovenian citizens in such a terrible way? And that's what this is all about. See, in explaining your request for an extraordinary meeting, you wrote to those Members that you justify this by requiring that, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the matter be deleted, which is unreasonably and knowingly politicised. I agree with that, unwarrantedly and knowingly, to politicize, but you did. Unreasonably and knowingly, you've politicized the matter. And on April 18th, these signatories warned you about what you're doing. And see, you continue what as the most important political topic occupys and poisons the Slovenian public, you use military language, military language. You're talking about occupation, poisoning. Those are your words, those are your syntagms and you keep doing that. When you first filed a motion against the Constitutional Court to prevent a referendum, I think it was about January 6th. At that time, I remembered that, in fact, you would probably want the most if, in accordance with the historical experience on that tragic January 6th, someone in the constitution declared an octrogen constitution. Like it's been done before. So I got an association. You want to declare a valid constitution invalid, forcefully enforce another constitution by which a parliament will be disbanded, a disbanded democracy. I think you're actually working this way. Go ahead. And it was not enough that, despite all this pressure on the Constitutional Court, which the Constitutional Court has repeatedly subjected to in some way, which is also in some way recognised, you continue to work and continue to pressure the Constitutional Court, because further on this argument, what will happen if the Constitutional Court does not cancel the referendum already signed. Pressure to cancel it, even though there is no legal basis. And the day you wrote, you knew that there was no legal basis. But still, the pressure. I think it is no coincidence that these are also subject to pressure, that the President of the Constitutional Court responded with these statements just today when this debate is under way. It's okay. In fact, however, I am surprised to learn that it has been a problem that critics could rely on some professional evaluations, that the Constitutional Court has exceeded the limits of its powers and has put itself in the role of legislator. It is now also prohibited to rely on expert evaluations, on the assessments of the most eminent lawyers, which Minister Bohinc recently hired. Now it's a problem in this country. Yeah, I just don't understand that that kind of thing can happen. And see, because these renowned lawyers and many others have raised their doubts and have also raised a fundamental question as to whether the Constitutional Court's decision has invalidated part of the constitutional law or constitution, for which the Constitutional Court is not competent, we do not yet have that answer. I think it's a legal profession from day to day. Experts are more divided here. And you want to get around it by calling emergency, emergency meetings. I'm also saying that the way you're showing the deletion, there's never been such a deletion. Slovenia was very democratic, very generous in those times. But in these thirteen years, your rule has been a number of erasures of workers and their rights. Tens of thousands and tens of thousands of workers and their rights have been erased. You made the cross, you crossed them. And for you, I used to fight in the factory, and I got expelled. And today, let Mr Potts say that we are not ready to fight for justice. That it's a lie. And this is how you create emergency situations. With this meeting today, you have, in fact, implicitly declared an emergency situation in this country. That's what I talked about when I took the agenda. It's a dangerous precedent. Only in the event of an emergency may such an urgent meeting take place. You weren't supposed to refer to another one, and you actually declared them state of emergency. And that someone in this country really wants a state of emergency, a destabilisation of the situation in this country, that those who want this destabilisation point to others with a finger, receive a thief or xenophobic, fascist, impatient, in fact every day is more. A lullaby in Nova Gorica. The birthplace of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, is the worst and most drastic proof that those who want and want to offer evidence that Slovenia is moving in a fascist, fascist direction are producing this evidence. I asked the Minister for an answer to this question in the Member State's question. I've asked a lot of questions. I also asked whether this was against the President of the National Assembly, because he is much more sober than his party in these debates on the deleted. Whether or not certain factions in his client have set him up and carried out this mascara action, which I most strongly condemn, which should be cleared up as soon as possible. Who ordered this anointed action, who ordered the scenics of these monuments, who ordered the writing of these xenophobic graffiti after these monuments and primary schools? And why? Did Nova Gorica immediately reveal that it was a well - known organization, a well - known structure, that there was nothing more in the print media to prevent it? Except in Dnevnik, there was one note on the back, where the journalist apparently had the answers to this or who to wet before the lullaby. Možin's documentary of the year also raised problems in this regard. When will you try to prevent in your own kind the production of eyelashes or luscious action on the basis of which 95% of Slovenian citizens are condemned to be fascists, for impatience? Slovenians and Slovenian citizens are not impatient, they are not xenophobic, they are wide awake, and I ask them to remain so, despite challenges, despite instigation, despite provocations, despite the scenarios on which they are to become such. In this direction of these challenges, the impetus goes also to what was happening on the Internal Policy Committee. This finger-pointing of those who warned the rules of procedure that it was a circus enough for someone. Who invented this theme in this way? Again, pointing fingers at those who advocate legality for constitutionality. This is an insult to the National Assembly, an insult to the highness of this council. This is no way to perform, it should not be performed. Is it also allowed to make a number of calls to each of these Members, at least 50, during this debate? People remind me of how the rhetoric of ministers of your kind has already changed. When this started, you literally gave Mr Todorovic the right to be an uncivilised country if he did not kneel immediately before his claims and the claims of many others. It was implicitly said that, although we are on the committee, I personally asked, Mr Minister, you remember to give an article on compensation when you stated that the material and social requirements for compensation, after payment of material, social rights under this law, in your opinion, do not apply. I warned you, let's write it down, then we could cut it. There was no such willingness at the time, many can remember. And in fact it was rhetoric, not to say that directly, you said that, Mr Minister, but the general pressure was that Slovenia would remain an uncivilised country, that what they said would be the truth. I must say that today I have been warned by some that Mr Todorovic was employed in the same factory, but so large at the other end. And today some have informed me how he behaved before December 1st. I was a witness at the time, but I must say that not everyone who was not of Slovenian nationality, some have acted very properly and loyally, but some have really made a plan of how after December 1st, after introducing the extraordinary situation, who will be the directors, then the TOZDs and so on. They've already been terrorized. And these today set up dictatorships, demands and talk about the uncivilised country of Slovenia. Once again, you are also prepared for the bankruptcy of this country, even though you have changed a lot to this day. If we hadn't performed so bulldozerly in the beginning, we wouldn't have these discussions today. We'd like to talk about it the way we need to talk. Today you have lost all confidence in the Slovenian public. The main concern and main anxiety is that after two months, when most of those commentators talk about xenophobia, that you have not changed the public opinion that percentages of public opinion polls are increasingly crystallized, Slovenian citizens are increasingly more and more plebiscite. And that makes you nervous and nervous. I ask again: Is anyone willing to say that 95% of Slovenian citizens are impatient, xenophobic, I don't know, hostile, fascist? No, no, no. And this politicization, once again, you triggered it yourself. Mr. Minister, you were in Slovenian Bistrica on 8 January. I read in the local officer that members of your party who were standing on the opposite tube watching from the barracks had warned you that some people who did not deserve this status had acquired it. Members of your party, officers of your party. That those at the barracks and their narrowest screamed, "The blood will flow." Is that right? With those words, the blood will flow. These threats were made by some who wanted to prevent the country’s independence and independence. Fortunately, we had a very smart commander there in Slovenian Bistrica who prevented these bloodthirsty people from really running blood. That commander, I can't remember his name, I'd sign it right away if he came back to get his status because he was a humanist and prevented a lot of things. But those who threatened, the blood would flow, and some of their immediate family members threatened the factories, and you'd see when we got back, and they went to the convoys, and they went to the wagons in time, and they packed up before independence. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Some. [[...]] You've been warned of this, Mr. Secretary. I hope this has a partial impact on your changed rhetoric. But what other people don't want to understand is that those who were when they fought for this country to be independent, to be able to start democracy, that today they feel that those who threatened him with the threat of 'who will run, I'll liquidate you', what will happen when we get back here when the state of emergency, the military system, and so on, that they can't be broad-minded. [[...]] Tell me one country in Europe or in the world that people who have sinned against this country would cherish. Tell me one country. And Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I want to end with a call to cut this vocabulary. Let's get this over with, and finally let's think about who tried something, how this could be solved. I hope that reason and sobriety will prevail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u144	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. You have the floor for the replica of Comrade Potch. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u145	Mr Jerovšek, at least as far as I'm concerned, is aware of the fact that when he lacks arguments, he is simply making personal accusations. I once asked my colleague Majda how the closest to Slovenian talks would be to evaluate those who read to others, as they do, and she said, "I don't remember any better than this: Each one measures the vat. Mr Jerovšek certainly knows this proverb well. Now, where he was misquoting me. I quoted Dr Kmetzel from yesterday's debate, where he spoke of fatalism being harmful to Slovenia and that the opposition knows nothing but unacceptable, and that it does not lead anywhere in Slovenia. I didn't quote what he wrote and that he was one of the cosigners of the statement, I don't know, the 15th, 19th, first signed by Dr. Šter. That's the first incorrect statement. Secondly, talk about me saying that the Slovenians are impatient, xenophobic, fascist. That's not true. That's a lie. I have talked about the fact that so many lies, intolerances and instigations have been said in this debate that create an climate in the public. And so, Slovenians and Slovenians, I agree with you, are broad-minded, just stop telling them the truth, stop talking about billions of damages, and they won't talk about damages themselves, stop talking about enemies getting citizenship and so on. And in the end, see why you do not admit that your request also includes a provision which states that if, as an active military or civilian employed in JLA, he did not respond to the Presidency's call of 27.1. and directly participated in armed conflicts in aggression against the Republic of Slovenia. This is included at the request of the Slovenian People's Party, its express request was and also yours. Why are you still talking about trying to save the enemies of Slovenia with this? That's not true. Admit that you are telling the truth and you are still repeating what may have been true six months ago, and today is certainly no more.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u146	I owe you, too, colleague Jerovšek, in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, will you deny inaccuracies in your statement?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u148	Only in this case will I give you so many words.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u149	Mr Potts actually denied himself in the last sentence to speak today what was true six months ago. Rather, he admitted that at that time they were speaking the complete untruth if it was as he said. But it's not true that I didn't admit you were speaking another rhetoric today. I have pointed out several times that, under the influence of our performances and the public, you have changed rhetoric. Mr. Potts, you must be judging me by your vats, but from Jung this theory of subconscious has come out. I've fought, I've got evidence, against injustice, in my life quite a bit, in my previous job, and I think I'm here quite basically for that average, weak, oppressed citizen. Above all, I understand the hardships of 10,000 workers who have lost their jobs, who have never been able to listen to this national assembly and government or power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u150	Thank you very much. My friend Barovic wants to have a procedural proposal. I'm just warning you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u151	Yes, Mr. President, look. Understand me, my colleague, whom I put in his defense, you did not allow Sasha Pecchet the replica he had on Mrs. Shirca. The rest of you just let it happen. Please, I know it's hard work, take everything the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u152	I've been trying this all along. Look, now I've looked at the list that's in front of me, the reported ones that are still in the debate, it's 13. So far, she's had the word of 10 colleagues and colleagues. Since today we also have a decision on the agenda, with which we are only correcting the dates, I propose that we start this discussion at 20.30, so that we stop the debate at this point, that we go to the decision-making decision, that there will be no problems and then that we continue with the debate. My colleague, Potts, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have not counted how many times in this National Assembly we have already discussed the deleted, but when I listen to the debate today, it seems to me that there is little left to do with what is called the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other countries, the successors of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the Republic of Slovenia, which they had, etc. If there is anything to be learned from the debates, it is that the field of discussion is very, very widespread. Let me at least warn you of some of the most obvious errors at first. The problem they are facing is known both from the reports of the Ombudsman and from the complaints to the Constitutional Court on constitutional requirements. And allow, the decision of the Constitutional Court bearing the date of 4 February 1999, which established the non-compliance of the Foreigners Act, Article 81 thereof, shall be signed with the name of President Franco Testen. At the time they were members of the Constitutional Court - Franz Testen, Dr. Zvonko Fisher, Dr. Miroslava Geč Korošec, Lojze Janko, Milojka Modrijan, Dr. Mirjam Škrg, Dr. Lojze Ude and Dr. Dragica Wedam Lukič. No Cyril Ribičič was among the Constitutional Judges at the time. Therefore, when we discuss in public who triggered the problem of the deleted and affected the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, according to the debates, is unacceptable for the opposition, this was certainly not only Cyril Ribičič in the current reference, but also other constitutional judges. The ground and the basis for such a verdict are certainly set out in the Constitutional Decision of February 1999. Even when I listened to the evidence of what was wrong in this country, I recalled once again the 19th point of the Constitutional Court's decision, which pointed out that several constitutional decisions that the legislator had not yet translated into the relevant legislative decisions, but also said that this did not preclude the implementation of this Constitutional Court decision. Now to the amendment to the first section of the law we are talking about. I consider as a cynicism of a special kind the proposal of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party, which tabled the amendment to the 21st Article, an amendment to all the 21st Articles, which was possible to make an amendment, is a deletion of the article. For these 21 supplements, the proponents used 46 lines of explanation.To all additions to delete the article is an explanation alone. And what can be understood from this explanation - that they do not actually agree with anything. And now my embarrassment is endless, for when we discussed and decided on the technical law, opposition MPs and Members demanded that we save the things that belong to the system law. When we discussed the system law, they went back to the technical law. And now they are renegotiating and offering a new solution at this point in the agenda, this is the so-called constitutional law. What would be left of the marriage if we deleted everything they proposed? The deletion of Article 1 which sets out the content has already been mentioned several times. But let's see what's left. If you read the subtitles of the articles, you would remain article 3 "conditions for obtaining a permanent residence permit", article 10, which says "providing the condition of real life for a minor child", article 11 "examination of a foreigner", article 12 "non-participation of a foreigner in a proceeding". And then there are three articles relating to transitional provisions that discuss how this law applies to cases filed under the law on aliens, the termination of the law on the regulation of the status of nationals of other countries and the 24th article on the entry into force of the law. It is quite clear that this would not have been anything, that such a savvy text itself calls for self-training. This has also been identified and written by the amendment's proponents. Then the amendments were withdrawn and the amendments were tabled only for deletions 1, 2, 4 and 14. It is probably not necessary to re-examine the content of these articles and to prove how this loses the basis for deciding on the law. Why do I say it's a special kind of cynicism? Simply because great philanthropists, great advocates of the rule of law, the rule of law, the honesty, they express the desire to correct injustices, and in fact what they have done shows only that they do not want to settle anything and that they know to answer everything only with an attitude if it is not as we think it will be. And now that the public has actually managed to upset the place and to arrest the public, they are now calling after it and looking for who is responsible. Certainly the United List of Social Democrats was not in the government or when it occurred, not before, but always spoke of being prepared to take responsibility for the decisions taken by the government at that time in the government. However, we showed readiness and a desire to solve the problem, which for 18,305 people is a pressing problem. That we only dealt with this and nothing else, which is a lie of the first kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Let's move on. My friend France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Well, the last series of speeches was, of course, more focused on the opposition and the evaluation of our work and the characteristics given to us by some members of government parties. In my performance, I would rather limit myself to the content of Article 1. And I would also like to explain our proposal to delete the article. I think I can do that. In fact, first of all, I would like to question or question the content of the technical law as a very questionable claim made by the legislature that this law does not address the content of the legislation. Why is that important? You all know very well, because the basic constitutional question here is whether or not we can solve things in this law that await their resolution at the referendum. And I think this is an extremely important question, not just for us, as the opposition, but for you. If you didn't want to adopt any law, then you wouldn't have fallen for that first question. First of all, let me tell you what the technical law says in its Article 2. That is to say that a foreigner and a foreigner, who has obtained a permanent residence permit that has already obtained a permanent residence permit, should be subject to the law on aliens and the law on the regulation of the status of nationals of other republics, in order to regulate the status of those foreigners as proposed; that is, by granting a permit. Except for those cases covered by Article 41 of the Law of Fathers and Article 17 or Article 17 of the Law on Foreigners or Article 41(2) of the Law on Foreigners. Thus, he removed only two articles and gave the technical law to all others, or allowed them to determine the permanent residence or to issue an automatic decision to those who had their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia at that time, and at that time obtained a permanent residence permit. The original Article 1 of the System Law lays down, in the third indent, that this status should be governed only by those foreigners who have been granted a permanent residence permit under Article 17 of the Aliens Act or under Article 41 of the Aliens Act. That is to say, those two articles, which have been excluded by the technical law, have been incorporated into the original text of the system law. Everything's fine and fine. However, we now have an amended article in which the third indent regulates not only the status of foreigners from those exempted two articles, but also all foreigners who at the time and at the time had a permanent residence and have already acquired permanent residence status, but only a woman’s restriction, i.e. those foreigners who have not been identified with their actual lives in the Republic of Slovenia since 1992. When we spoke in the technical law about why not check it out, the answer was for all those who had a permanent residence yet registered in 1992 and at that time acquired permanent residence status, this continued residence was checked for all at that time. And then suddenly, there's this category where it's admitted, it's not checked. At that time, it was said from the Minister's mouth and from all your claims that it was certainly verified for all and that there were no unverified allocations of permanent residence, and there were no such cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u156	My friend Candy, he's not even attached to your debate, but at 8:00 we're going to move on to a decision-making decision. In fact, I have been rightly warned - I apologize for interfering with the debate, but I want to do this only to make it clear to my colleagues and colleagues, as well as to the secretaries of the groups of Members, that they will inform the leaders that they will come at 8:00. In fact, if the debate is not shortened, it is 3 hours long and 55 minutes long and has been set. Thank you very much for this warning. At 8:00, we'll move on to decision-making. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u157	Thus, according to technical law, decisions are to be given to all those who have been and who have not been checked. The current proposal, however, is intended to be issued to those who would be examined. Therefore, at least that group is the same in both laws and therefore the issue of conflict is very problematic, especially the opinion of the legislative and legal service is problematic. During the debate, it was said that, unfortunately, major errors occurred in 1992. And we argue that in 1992, thank God, there were no dramatic mistakes, and that is the difference, gentlemen, that is the difference. This difference is then reflected in all further articles. In 1991, as you know, we became an independent state and, as you know, there are then new relations, a new state, and then it is necessary to regulate the status of all those who live in the new country.And then citizenship was distributed to all those who wanted it, and all those who also lived were invited, but did not want to maintain their citizenship, or to obtain Slovenian citizenship, were invited in one way or another to regulate their status. Of course, you will say that they did not know that they had to fix it; this is one of the main reasons - that they did not know. In explanation of the system law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wrote down an example to read: "In defining these criteria, the drafter took into account the data of the workers of the former municipal secretariat for Internal Affairs of Ljubljana." That only in this area have they sent notices to all who have not applied for citizenship under Article 40 of the Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia - this in 1992 - and notified them of the changes. Of the approximately seven thousand invitations sent, about two thousand were served. And the other shipments came back with a note "moved" or "unknown" -- that is, only two thousand, the other five thousand moved away, unknown. Of the two thousand, between 500 and 700 people responded to the invitation of the administrative authority, either in accordance with the provisions of the Aliens Act or with the law on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what the government says in the explanation for the marriage. That it was possible to regulate the status of a foreigner at that time, the explanation of the 1999 Constitutional Court, which states Drnovskov's opinion and report, that is to say, your governments. To quote from this explanation of the Constitutional Court, it reads: "This is how 1468 was issued in 1992 to the foreigners or permanent residence permits for foreigners from the republics of the former SFRJ, in 1993 763, in 1994 361, in 1995 312, 1996 640 and 1997 1259." Total 4893. So by that time, the permanent residence status had been granted to the person who had requested it. Drnovšk's government further says in this report: "In the opinion of the Government, many people who did not apply for citizenship in the Republic of Slovenia did not want to obtain permanent residence permits because of the loss of certain rights in their country. However, some people did not actually live in the Republic of Slovenia despite their registered permanent residence." Please, that's what Drnovskov's government wrote in 1999. I think there is one fundamental mistake here that I think, if they didn't know about this need, that they're in a new country and they have to settle their status, then it's the country's fault. Gentlemen, don't know, it means harm to someone who doesn't know. Imagine if we were to adopt the law now not 0.5 but 0.2 mills, and then 14 days later we would drive with 0.4 mills and, of course, the police would hurt you hard, but you would say, yes, I didn't know that I couldn't drive with 0.4 millet. We'd be laughing at you. We'd all be laughing at you. If they didn't know, that's not why they weren't obliged to settle their status. However, I think that most of these cases are particularly true of what Drnovšk's Government wrote at the time, very fair, very correct. However, if we believe that there were some cases that knew who wanted to handle it, but they could not because of such or other cases, of course, these cases must be taken seriously. And I think that everyone is aware that we have proposed, when, of course, the government was willing to discuss constitutional law, constitutional law - including the Slovenian Democratic Party or the Slovenian Coalition - in which we have specified in which cases and if it was not possible, these people will be granted their status back, but only in this case. So, the basic principle that we still advocate is that not to those who didn't want to, but only to those who wanted to, they couldn't. That's the basic difference. And this difference is drawing, and this conflict, this different approach is going through all the debates, but unfortunately we can't afford to let everyone, even those who didn't want to settle their status, settle this status in this way. And we believe, of course, that there is a burden of proof if someone who has been injured should, of course, be allowed to exercise his rights, but the burden of proof is on the party's side. I'm sure justice is required. Finally, let me just say how justice is taken into account in the 2004 Constitutional Court decision. This is a decision issued on 15 January, i.e. a very fresh decision by the Constitutional Court. The problem was equality, or fair treatment, of the various victims of war and postwar violence. Here is the case of a political prisoner from 1948 to 1950, who proves that he is not treated fairly. You also know that victims of war violence are not treated fairly. In the Pohorje affair, where the soldiers of the Pohorje Battalion were killed, they were not treated as victims of war violence because they had the misfortune of not being killed by the Germans, but by the partisans. My own colleagues. And that's the problem. And how the Constitutional Court treated or dealt with this inequality. Let me read point four of their explanation. "But on this initiative, the Constitutional Court points out that both the legal regulation of the status of the victim of war violence and the legal regulation of the status of the former political prisoner in an area where the legislator is necessarily a very wide field of free decision-making." Here is a very wide field of free decision-making, with deleted strings "move". One way or another. Gentlemen, this is duality, this is an unfair approach, an unfair approach, these are different vats. Different vats. And I think that's what voters feel. Thank God they feel. That's why I write so many letters. Someone I met a week ago, two, when coordination with representatives of the LDS, the government, the minister was present and so on, and I said, listen, all these things will be settled, we are very close now, we will be settled in constitutional law, and that will be a final solution that will not be able to break any referendum, no constitutional court, and I hope that we will find a just solution. That was when the talks started. And he told me, Drnovšek said, yes, the best solution to the constitutional law. The son of a bitch said, no, it's just stalling, immediately and immediately after a quick procedure, the system law. And he asked me what you think is gonna happen? I won't ask you either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u158	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Rokavac, please. I'm sorry. Mr. Tanko procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Look, it'll be eight hours in a few minutes. The debate on item 2 is scheduled to be held around 4 hours and I propose that the debate on item 1 be closed at 10 a.m. tomorrow after the end of item 2. Not to draw these discussions, I don't know, until two in the morning, you have a lot of debaters reported, and I believe they haven't all signed up yet. Some of us will still be, so I suggest that we close today's meeting after the end of Point 2 and continue tomorrow at 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u160	Look, as I predicted, at 8:00, Comrade Tanka, we'll move on to a decision-making decision. I believe that, as many as are reported, there is no need for debate, depending on the decision itself. Let me immediately say that I believe that we must make this decision. Now, with your understanding, this procedural proposal would not be put to the vote, because we will still have a 20-hour decree and we could decide on it at that time. I ask that the debate now runs until 20 o'clock normally ahead, just as colleagues are reported according to the same parameters as colleagues have spoken to them, and then at 20 o'clock we will move on to the decision-making process, then we will see how it goes. Can you understand my proposal? Thank you very much. Comrade Rokavec, you are the last one to have a word with you, then I will interrupt this meeting at this treatment of this point and go to the department.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament. First, I'd say it's actually time to stop the horses: why? This appeal shall apply to the applicants of today's extraordinary meeting for the first item. Look, I need to comment first on your proposal why we should convene today's extraordinary session with item 1. The basic purpose was to adopt a system law and then on both laws, of course, if such an initiative would be necessary, to go to a referendum once. I think it's a very pretentious move. The fact is, if a referendum were to take place only on the technical law, then there would be no need for a referendum on the system law. Why? Because, in my opinion, the plebiscite decision of citizens and citizens would be so high that politics should happen and wake up. Here the question arises why this policy does not want to wake up. Because some solutions he doesn't want to accept. 155. The articles refer to retroactivity, says the following: "Laws, other regulations and general acts cannot have an effect on the back". The second paragraph states: "Only the law may provide that individual provisions of its provisions have a retroactive effect if this requires public benefit and thus does not affect the rights acquired." Here, however, is the question - whether it interferes with the issue that has been deleted in the public interest and is asked about the granting of permanent residence status to persons who have acquired citizenship status at that time, to persons who have acquired permanent residence status at that time. You will say, it is human rights, but this person cannot demand anything from this country, because this country is ahead of schedule, it is said, before 25.2.1992, that it has provided a significantly better, broad-based opportunity to acquire citizenship. It's a different conclusion. These people are materially beneficial. You'll probably be river proponents, yes, because we're solving this whole thing in a system law. We have accepted your suggestions, the compensation will virtually be no more or less. The Prime Minister even said with a statement: The referendum will cost more than the cost of compensation." Everything's fine and fine. Until we find out that this law is not above the bond law. And only the law of a constitutional nature could prevent these provisions from being challenged in this law and would prevent such damages from actually being made. And then here I wonder why such arrogance is so Mr Wedam Lukićeva in today's press release, as well as the applicants. It is not intended to actually and completely prevent compensation until you are ready to talk about this matter at the constitutional level. Any other solution will again be subject to constitutional judgement, re-submitted to the question and legitimacy of decisions. That must be answered. And then the question is, why aren't some of us for retroactivity? Because I am sure - and this is confirmed - that the Constitutional Court can also be wronged; but those who talk most at this time about the need to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, just last week, when ratifying the Vatican Agreement, voted against the Constitutional Court's decision, against the Constitutional Court's decision, which said that the agreement was in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Here, however, the question of an ideological view of the issue of the deleted is raised. And here I would agree with my predecessor that it is in the interest of someone in this country that this issue is actually more politicised and, on the other hand, that they are also trying to resolve this issue for some purpose at all costs. And before the end, there was something else that we were talking about today. From Friday's meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, where it was clearly stated, yes, since we have accepted even the amendment of the People's Party for the values of independence, I will quote it once again: "If, as an active military or civilian person employed in JLA, did not respond to the call of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia of 27.6.1991 and directly participated in armed conflicts in JLA's aggression against the Republic of Slovenia, unless it proves that the Presidency's call did not respond to the call to put itself or family members at risk." Yes, my colleagues are the proponents, you have really accepted this amendment, but you have literally been "squeezing" until Comrade Trofenik has made it clear to you that also civilians could, and specifically with the case, participate in the aggression against our country. And when I asked the Minister whether this country actually had credible data on persons who have also left our country, that was not the answer. That is why I think there are a lot of open questions here. And what can be done? In my opinion, I believe that until we are ready to agree on the three most fundamental issues, it is said that there is no question of retroactivity, that there is no retroactivity, that there is an explicit respect for the values of independence here and that no one who has acted in any way against the interests of our country can obtain this status, and that compensation is regulated by constitutional law, cannot adequately resolve this issue. And in the end, colleagues and colleagues, if you think you are going to trick the Slovenian public with the system law, you will say that you have arranged everything so that there will be no compensation, that our budget will not suffer, then you are misleading it - say this today - until you are ready to save and write and adopt these materials in constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u162	Good. As I have predicted, after a discussion by my colleague Rokavac, I will interrupt the debate on this point and move on to a decision-making decision. We will first, of course, discuss this issue, on the question of the proposed decision amending the decision on the schedule of the subsequent legislative referendum on implementing law 8. The points of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia were more debated. First of all, I would like to ask you to present a supplementary explanation of the motion of decision by colleague Majda Potrate - if she believes that this is necessary? That won't be necessary. Then please let the government do this to you, Comrade Lavrinz? [[...]] Please, I thought it was written here by my colleague Potrat. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u163	Mr President, I would like to speak procedurally. Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure states so. Individual agenda items shall be dealt with in accordance with a specific order. During the meeting, the National Assembly - i.e. the National Assembly - may change the order of treatment of individual agenda items at a maximum of two times, provided that one third of the Members present do not object. I wasn't there, or else I thought you put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u164	Comrade Lavrinc, I have already warned you at the beginning of this session, and earlier, at the College, that we must adopt this decree within seven days. At the beginning of the meeting, I said that at some point I would break the debate on the so-called system law and move on to the decision-making process. Please, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u165	Mr President, I think you are really interpreting the Rules of Procedure at the time of the sitting, but because I think that this time you have misinterpreted the Rules of Procedure, I demand that you give this opinion to the vote. Which means if your proposal or your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure were rejected, then of course we continue with the point that is running.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u166	There is no business option anymore. Comrade Lavrinc, please. I said at the college last time and today, I said at the beginning of this meeting that I would interrupt the meeting at a certain point so that we could move on to the decision-making decision; and I will do so now. We'll go to a decision-making session, please. And I'm asking, does the government want a word? Not at all. Then I propose that they present the views of the Group of Members. Please, first of all, colleague Lenko for the DeSUS Group of Members, Mr Lenko for the DeSUS Group of Members. He's quitting. Comrade Drobčnik for the New Slovenia Group of Members. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u167	Given that you obviously do not follow the rules of procedure all day today, I suggest we end this agenda item and discuss how to move the matter forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u168	I'm asking for peace in the hall. I've already told college and I'm starting today how I'm going to do it, and that's how I'm going to do it. However, I also said that for all such issues I am ever ready to take the initiative or to give myself an initiative for consultation. And if this is necessary now, I will order a 15-minute recess to meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups at 217.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u169	Mr President, I was on behalf of the New Slovenia Group at the College today, you made that clear and none of those who were at the meeting at the time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u170	A colleague of Dr. Bayuk's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u171	among them also colleague Anderlič, he did not answer [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u172	Comrade Dr. Bayuk, you don't have a word. I've suspended work for 15 minutes, and please, leaders - in 217.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u173	First of all, I will ask Mrs Tina Bitenc to answer the question about our obligation to take a decision today on the motion for a decree. Please, Mrs. Tina Bitenc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u174	I asked the question at the college, it was very specific. Is there a time limit for today’s decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u175	Please, Mrs. Tina Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u176	I would just like to read part of the explanation of the decision of the last decision issued by the Constitutional Court concerning the assessment of the decision on the invitation to tender. In addition, point 10 explicitly stated that if the Constitutional Court finds that the content of the claim is not inconsistent with the Constitution or that there is no anti-constitutional effect, the State Council must call a referendum within seven days at the latest. This obligation is already based on the Constitution and thus delaying its implementation would constitute a violation of Article 90(2) of the Constitution. Certainly, we have always argued, and even the previous time when we gave an opinion on the deadline, we have explicitly stated that it must do everything in its power to respect the hands laid down by the law. However, since it is the duty to call a referendum if the national assembly signs it out of any objective effect later, it shall move after midnight, it shall enter into force, because this circle cannot have the nature to discharge its duties. In this respect, as regards the duty to tender a referendum, the time limit as such cannot exist, but the National Assembly, as a State authority, is obliged to respect the rule of law in any way possible. The best thing that can be done in a relationship - that's the best thing that can be said. Of course, we cannot say that there is no need to stick to the deadlines; that is certainly a position that we can adopt, as we stressed at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u177	I will now begin the debate on the decree. And I'm asking, does colleague Lenko want a word? He doesn't want to. Comrade Petty Officer - about the decree? You don't want to. Kolga Barovic, colleague of Peca on behalf of the parliamentary group? My friend Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u178	Respectable present. First of all, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, we agree with your decision today to sincerely hope that at least this time there will be a decree in the National Assembly with a deadline as adopted. We regret, however, that it was by the ruling parties that the decree or the first decree were annulled. We estimate that this is due to an uncreditable or insufficient quality policy in this national assembly, but this time not to your fault. At the National Party, we will support the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u179	We're only talking about dates. I'll be very strict about that. Colleague Krebs cancels. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u180	Thank you, President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the content of the decision amending the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law on the enforcement of the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia. The decision to vote in the referendum on Sunday, 28 March is one of the possible solutions. We expected a shorter deadline, but if that was the decision of the committee, we will not oppose it in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u181	My friend Potts, he's quitting. Comrade Tuck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u182	We believe that the matter is ripe for decision in the National Assembly and we agree with the decree and the dates.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u183	Let's go in the order you were reported. Comrade Bayuk? [[No, no, ……]] A friend of mine? [[No, no, ……]] I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief because we've talked a lot about this problem. I think this is one of the most pointless and unnecessary decisions to be voted on today in the National Assembly. In addition to this call for a referendum, a referendum on biomedical assistance in pregnancy may also be included, and on opening and closing trade, on railway reorganisation, all of these are really great questions for decision-making outside professional circles. However, if this referendum must be, so be it. However, we must not forget that whatever the outcome is, the decision of the Constitutional Court will have to be enforced. This was said again at the press conference today by the President of the Constitutional Court when she answered the question of journalists, "It will have to be done sooner or later". And that is actually the answer to how this referendum is needed and what we will achieve with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u185	Comrade Rokavec, you're giving up. Colleague of Potrat - you're giving up. My friend Janez Janša, he's not here. A colleague of Zupanov's? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Barovic, you're giving up. Comrade Juban, he's giving up. My friend Kangler's quitting. My friend Kontic, he's quitting. My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, it has proved once again that the Constitutional Court, when it held its decision, put itself on the other side of the political side rather than on what it is. The Constitutional Court should therefore give effect to the Constitution and that everything else runs in accordance with the Constitution. The tasks of the Constitutional Court are not political assessments and decisions, but this has, unfortunately, happened this time. Therefore, this referendum will be essential later and the subject matter will continue to linger for a while, in fact, because of this, although this could already be in the implementation phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u187	Comrade Petty Officer, he's giving up. My friend Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I will vote against this resolution because I think it is, of course, democracy, human rights and civil liberties, whose rule of law is part of an inseparable system, not the "a la carte" menu, from which you take what you agree at a certain point. Of course, in the framework of the system law, I will also state the reasons which led me to do so. I think that in this country we should also listen to the voice of those who call for legal and ethical responsibility and who call for respect for the Constitutional Court, which means calling for decisions to be made on the basis of this Constitutional Court. This is the only solution, all the others - of course, prolonging the problem in which we climbed the hots or slacks, for such or other reasons, for the fears of these or those, but above all - and of course I hope so, and I know that it is not the matter of this party, at least of LDS, but some of course because they have followed the daily public surveys. I will not support this proposal because, of course, I feel that the referendum is not a form to decide on human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u189	Comrade Sushinik? He's quitting. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u190	I would just say that the Constitutional Court has also said that the decision of the people at the referendum cannot constitute a violation of the Constitutional Court's decision. And those who say this referendum is pointless, but you don't acknowledge that there is authority in this country. Thank you very much. I'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u191	Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When we voted on the referendum a while ago, I was one of the five we voted against. That is why I will not support any date today either and I do not intend to vote in favour of the decree. I have many reasons for this, and the Constitutional Court is not one that could force me to support something that will deteriorate long-term relations with the non-Slovaks in this country. Today you had an extraordinary opportunity, and at 4: 00 p.m. you could go to Brdo pri Kranj, where our diplomacy consulted about South-Eastern Europe. There was no need, because if I listened to what has been said here so far, this could be a debate on the Western Balkans. They'd just change their names a little bit, and they'd hear a story about how refugees wanted to come back, and they went when they didn't have to, and what they had on their backs. A week ago, we voted here on the ratification of the accession agreement and we were all in line for being in Europe. But what is happening on this subject is certainly not a European story. This is the story of the Western Balkans. Ten days ago, I was in London, and someone came to my desk who knew me, didn't go to the main protocol desk, and he went to sit with me because he wanted to talk to me. To understand each other, he was very fond of Slovenia, then with great pride in his speech, he said that he had been shown the oldest whistle in the world in our natural history museum, and he was talking about Slovenia beautiful things. But when we were alone, he said to me, "explain to me what "rased people" is." And when you start explaining the matter to him and explaining it, they don't understand it. When we get to the story, when they ask, it's citizenship, and you say it's not citizenship, they understand it even less. And then they apologize and say that they thought that Slovenia was a country that had very little in common with other republics and that we were out of this story, but now they see us again in this story. And this referendum will help us very much to confirm our link with the former countries of the former Yugoslavia. We'll be more in the package with them than we think. Now I am not blaming the Constitutional Court, which, according to its powers, did what it did. I'm just saying that I don't want to be a part of this circus because whatever we look at, people will go or they won't go to the referendum and they'll explain things they don't know. We all have credit for not knowing them because we didn't solve things in time. Although it saddens me that we've come so far, but I just don't want to be a part of this, even by confirming the date, no. For after the thing is behind us, we will still be where we were: but the situation will be significantly worse than it was before. That's what I was talking about back then, and I'm not telling anything new about it. Article 1 of the System Law seems acceptable to me. And once again, I'm politically judging him. I didn't write it, and I don't want to fix it because I want the responsibility for its preparation to be borne by those who put it on the table. I'm just going to judge whether it's real or not, and point one I'll definitely support, I'm talking about article one of the law. But we are now discussing and deciding on the date or the invitation to tender. That is why I conclude and say: I did not support the referendum itself, and I will not support the date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u193	Mag. The couch. [[He's quitting.]] A fellow cremator.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u194	Thank you very much, President. If you were making an illusion of a good cause, you'd try to prevent it, just like I've tried so far, but that's not the point. It's a political circus and, of course, in this story, I don't want to participate either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u195	Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u196	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. First of all, I need to rediscover that you are leading the session today as you think you do. Nor did you allow Members to judge whether you are doing the right thing or not, as the Rules of Procedure do. Well, if we're talking about a decision, I'll say: I will, of course, support the decision. I will support him, although it seems to me that the motto of this whole circus has been prepared in advance - I would ask, colleagues, that you are silent when I speak because I am disturbed and I applied for the debate, which means I have enough time. The motto is, with us, we shave the fools from our citizens best, it's the motto of the circus, which is prepared in advance, prepared as preparations for the elections. With the assistance, Mr President, of the politics where I count you, and with the assistance of the plenipotentiaries in the field of constitutional law, some of them are in this room, of course, these things are happening as they are happening. Sam, I'm gonna say, I'm sad. Why? Because I think there are a lot more problems in this country, a lot more. People are getting rich in an illegal way, but apart from the opposition statements, which, of course, are always flossules in the function of some of their desires, we are not dealing with this seriously. People lose jobs, but we don't really deal with it. All of a sudden, the biggest problem has arisen. And of course, what a great sister we are to kneel down to continue to lead this pre-election farce, we kneel before every proposal by the opposition and extremists in this room. Why do I think we should get down on our knees? Because we're dragging this thing forever, and we're going to drag it in, and we're going to allow all the procedural complications to go on as far as possible in the electoral year. To whom it leads, public opinion polls tell. But, I tell you, the time will come, he will come. If you take the STA report into your hands today, what the President of the Constitutional Court has said, I will not repeat what my colleague Ashish has said, but I will tell this story does not end here, you can delay it, it does not end here! You can accept the constitutional law - it does not mean anything; it does not mean anything to you; if it means abuse, they can also judge it if they decide - because they are bags, for example - that they will not judge each of these people who are harmed remains a European court; which means: an even greater shame, a cloud, and disgrace the country to the point that people can spit you out on the roads themselves. Of course, this will move through the elections, you'll get popular until the election. Therefore all that you said about the constitutional law is a farce, a lie; all that you said was no one talked to us about the content. Never! If you take a system law, it's good enough. When we were talking about the marriage that is now going to the referendum, none of you spoke as if it were what was actually going on. You talked all the time about system law, you talked about practically 12,000 people, about 18,000 people. But we all know that this law, which we have here before us and which will go to the referendum, covers just under 4,000 of these cases. That's why, I'll say, I'm sad. We're making a fool of ourselves, we're making a fool of citizens to go to a referendum for 600 million, you're talking about how this is the height of democracy. Listen, this is an abuse of democratic procedures and nothing else! Abuse and citizens' pull, for 600 million paid campaign for election campaign! And of course I'm resisting it, I'm resisting it, I'm also resisting a system law that I think will experience a fate like this. And I'm glad of the day, the hours of truth for all of you who are so limping, and here you say with your finger here, I'm glad that hour of truth, even though it will come only after the elections. But I will support the decree myself, and finally we have prepared it on the Internal Policy Committee, and I will also examine it, so that we will still be out of line if, of course, there is such a desire for this system law to be reviewed at the referendum, even though I will say, where the bull goes, let the darts go. And make sure there are two referendums! Spread the money for two schools, waste it for these referenda! Give it to me! I'll be happy, I'm sure it'll come back to you like a boomerang. Of course, I will do this myself to support this decree, very sad, because instead of using this money for smarter things for stupidity and for shaving fools out of something that is supposed to be sacred - this is a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u197	My colleague Maja Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u198	Colleagues and colleagues, no date is right, not March 28th or March 25th or any other. At the same time, if decisions are to be issued on this day, or if this is to be denied, the reason why you think the referendum is necessary. In general, dear colleagues and colleagues, 30 of you are responsible for this referendum, even in this sense, as Mr Lavrinc said, but especially because you did not withdraw your signatures when this was absolutely possible and it was clear that the referendum was unnecessary. It is said that people will be, that people will decide something that has already been decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u199	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u200	I'm not done yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u201	Excuse me! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u202	Thank you. However, I think that the referendum is not only unnecessary in legal terms, but certainly, after everything you can present, 30 Members and Members are required for you. It is needed because you think that this can strengthen some influence, some manoeuvre, and certainly it is done under the cover of democracy. More than 30 Members, I think it takes the legitimacy of the Constitutional Court and not only the legitimacy of the Constitutional Court, but also the legitimacy of the rule of law at this point. It seems most hypocritical to me that this democratic tool, referendum, is being used for nothing, certainly not a democratic goal - to create, to create, to create new intolerances, new morals and other injustices, but also to raise doubts about something that I think must never be put into question - for an act of fourteen years ago, for the process of independence itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u203	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u204	Thank you very much. It is not a rare opportunity to discuss the same matter more than once. On the other hand, it is a rare opportunity for us to make two decisions about the same problem. That this situation has occurred so that we can decide twice is, in fact, the responsibility of politics and not as much as anyone would like to say, a constitutional court in this or previous composition. We have already talked about the conflict between the two in the Constitution of written rights and the referendum and the preservation of human rights. I have already decided in this discussion, as many years ago and every time I have been in this dilemma, that human rights have priority. That is why I voted against the referendum decision in the previous decision. That is why I have failed in calling on our government and, above all, the minister to do what the Constitutional Court's decision has been ordering him to do. That's why I'm kind of, I'll say, ashamed of the large number of people who expect us to act politically thoughtfully and politically wise, because they have chosen us not to postpone decisions to the constitutional court and not to the referendum for the situations presented. Here is my disappointment much, not just those 30 Members who are trying to find an opportunity to actually talk about other things. In addition to these problems, there are many other problems in Slovenia, those discussed by Mr Lavrinc, and those discussed by other colleagues, and those recorded in the letters But there is never a way to solve the problem on the table, such that it appears to be another problem. It's an old bureaucrat, if you want, or a party "fiction," as they say, something is more important, and the other is less. Let's get on with the essentials. This ideology that things are more important than, let's say, deleted, unfortunately, is subject to a lot of things. Even those who talk about development, the budget, visions and so on. People expect us to have these visions, and they expect us not to burden them indefinitely with issues that the National Assembly must resolve. I understand the Constitutional Court's decision in such a way that we do not have, or this system, a set of decisions, that there will be no misunderstanding that we do not have excessive manoeuvre in finding solutions. I understand the question of the relevance of this referendum in that any decision at the referendum will not hold back the fact that the 8th point will have to be implemented. From this point of view, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the meaning of this decree and the referendum. From this point of view, it is quite clear that the path to a referendum does not lead to preventing the possible prevention of the 8th point of this landmark decision by the Constitutional Court, but leads to pre-accusation of who respects the will of the people and who does not. However, there are certain things and human rights that cannot be discussed excessively. Last but not least, the ratification of those agreements, the festive ones, from, I'll say, the past days are bound to unrelentingly respect these rights. We are not able to do this here, so we are looking for some compromises on how to fail to do some of this. That's all condemnation is worth, and basically that's what's asking the question, I'm going to say, the institutions of our system. So I don't think it's a problem if the conflict that was once tried with help, I'm going to say, my colleagues are being transferred to the Constitutional Court, secondly, through the help of right-wing men to the referendum, to keep it, in this assembly. We can do this by rejecting this decree. Of course, there are mechanisms to protect these rights and institutions that judge this, but I do not believe that this makes sense because we have on the other hand a minister who will not know what to do with him, which of course would not help him any complementary decision that might even make a form of how the 8th point is done and that is, I will say, the problem that makes me feel like I'm fighting a windmill in the wind. We know what needs to be done, we have written what needs to be done, and we support people who don't know and don't want to do it. Perhaps someone is standing behind their backs, but that is the question that many others find painful to talk about in this hall. This is a question of who caused this illegal erasure. This is not about finding a term, as it used to be, whether it's a big mistake, a fatal mistake, a dramatic mistake. The Constitutional Court called this an illegal deletion. It was made, it was later hidden, and it's still hidden today. It's obvious who did this at the beginning and who knows who's hiding it at this point. And that is, I will say, a disgrace to Slovenian politics, which means a stain on what anyone says, but a bright tradition of independence. What it meant was the voice of freedom, the voice of being able to say that it is possible to require things to be done on a weekly basis and to the fullest extent, and today we cannot do this from larger or smaller accounts. Disobedience to a constitutional decision as a result also means a broken promise from those documents that led to independence, but a broken promise can be spoken of by people who keep their promises, others being heavier. And there has been a lot of broken promises in this debate, so without, as it is said, I hope to vote against the required majority once again, knowing that this means certain complications in our system, but these complications are less than the consequences that may result from the adoption of a decision and a referendum whose results cannot be defended without a reservation in all respects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u205	Comrade Tarchoon. [[You're giving up.]] My friend Wolf? [[You're giving up.]] My friend Anderlich? [[You're giving up.]] Okay, then we'll cross you've already been invited, colleague Kangler, but you haven't spoken. [[....]] So I think we could go over to [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? Can I just explain what I would suggest? I propose that we now conclude those who have the right to speak. I see we still have some time at our disposal. I'll ask you who wants another word, give it five minutes, and then we'll move on to a decision. On this side: colleague Peca, colleague Yuri, [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before a final decision on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats pursuant to Article 73, paragraph 2, since the rules of procedure are to be cited today, I request a 20-minute recess. I think that the contribution to this decision is so great that it is worth consulting seriously. Today, if we were to hold a meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and take decisions under Article 67, paragraph 3, which would be an obligation of the College, it would certainly be for us to decide on one and the other points today, in accordance with all procedural rules. It seems that it was more important not to conclude the first point and that more importantly, we are only deciding on the second. It is very likely that we will not conclude it even in the course of today and, more easily, if the desire to discuss one thing is discussed for four, five hours, that discussions after four hours, half an hour and more without content are allowed to be a pleasant atmosphere in the National Assembly, but not to do so effectively. We believe that it is right to have the opportunity to discuss the consequences of such work and the consequences of decisions. Is it possible to go to a referendum or is it not possible? Will it be possible to hold a referendum on the issue of human rights or not? Is it just an obligation to discuss the referendum, or is it an obligation to take decisions taken by the Constitutional Court in the decision, which we have been late for several months? These are all questions we would like to discuss and ask for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u207	Look. Since I believe that there will be another explanation for the vote before the decision is taken, then I think that, perhaps at 11 o'clock at the latest, we should proceed to the vote. Now it's almost 21,000, which means we have some time. We must, of course, count another 20 minutes of rest, as requested by the United Nations Group. Now I'm going to make another list of those who have re-registered. I will suggest that this debate is brief. I would certainly suggest that we go to the meeting at 10: 30 p.m. so that we can return to the hall by 11:00 p.m. Let's go in line, who else called? Comrade Zląbec, colleague of Juban Who else is reported? My colleague, Dr. Bernik, colleague of Bajuk, colleague of Pohorec, you have already written, colleague Kangler, colleague, only a hint, colleague of Rupar and Jakič, that is Pohorec, Pece, Juri, Zląbec, Juban, colleague of Janša, colleague of Zupan, colleague of Sok. Look, I suggest you give everyone three minutes to explain his views. Please, let's do it in a row, buddy. Please, we have time on the table, in time. Please, just a moment. Just a minute! Some of you have already given up the debate, and I'll take that into account. Those who wanted to discuss it will be given a word. This is my friend Pohorec first. [[three minutes]] . Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I myself gave up presenting the position of the Group of Members. Now I'm going to be very short. This time, I will give an answer to those who have elected me to the National Assembly, who have called me so many times, do not do what you are doing there, do not call for referendums that have such a high price and result as the last four have. Because I don't agree with what you've blown up Slovenian citizens, you've intimidated them with 800 billion damages at the expense of the write-offs, because that's not going to be true. Because we are in favour of dealing with the law that we are just dealing with and supporting, which will regulate in a civilized way what the state of Slovenia is also obliged to do. We have enough other threats for high damages. Those of you who blow up 800 billion, your candidate in the last election sues Slovenia for 1,500 billion, I hope you've noticed that - 1,500 billion! He's suing the European Court of Human Rights. I hope you read this in Finance on 8/12. So not to talk about how terrible the matter is over us, but to allow another, which is actually happening in Strasbourg against Slovenia. I believe in Finance, even though it's a newspaper that finds a late Member and interviews him. So this time I will do as my fellow citizens, my fellow citizens, my constituents call out, "Don't waste the money on all of us together, give it to the school." And it is for one such school in our environment that it is not possible to get 30 million, promised for almost half a year. We're gonna waste 600 million here! I'm not voting for such an order this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u209	Comrade Yuri, then Comrade Evil.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u210	Thank you, President. I join the call made before me by my colleague Školč - an invitation to the Ministry, an invitation to the government, that is also to the Prime Minister, to order the Ministry to issue supplementary decisions on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. This will prove that, as the Constitutional Court has told us, the technical law is unnecessary and the referendum itself is unnecessary. For the first time, I will not support the referendum but I will not prevent it from being understood, because if I did, I would also act contrary to the opinion and decision of the Constitutional Court. But we know what this referendum is for. Last but not least, there have been clear messages about this referendum. This referendum, which has been made public by one of the signatories to the initiative, serves to bring down the government. It has been foretold that, to the extent they are held, they are convinced that they are holding the results of the surveys if that is actually the case, that the government should resign. It is clear that there is an eminent political referendum, which has nothing to do with unnecessary law. I have already said that this is very expensive paid by all taxpayers, the election campaign of the initiators of the referendum, that is, the whole right hand, of course, but unfortunately we are not in a position to find ourselves in conflict with the Constitutional Court's opinion in order to prevent it and not actively participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u211	Bad boy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. I'm not going to support this ruling because of the basic human rights trampling. In today's discussion, at least twice, fellow Members on the right questioned the Constitutional Court as such. This is the first step towards the funeral of democracy, the triumph of hatred from evil. And this hatred of evil, which has sprinkled from your benches, can unfortunately also spread among the people you have been protecting for three years without offering any better or different.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u213	Dr. Bernick's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Minister is not here. I'll support the referendum, one or two. And for the following reasons. I listened to these discussions here today, and I wondered if we were still normal. In fact, duality, double standards and so on have been repeated and repeated. Look, first of all, I would say that democracy, some of you say that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and so on, of course, but nowhere is it said that you must not challenge them, write anything against them, and that is democracy. Maybe you're used to the old days, but you know what you could say and what you couldn't say. But those times, I hope, have passed, although sometimes, lately I've had a little trouble with it because I don't know if we're going back or moving on. The same goes for Parliament. Here we can challenge things as long as we want, as long as it's worthy. But again, those who have the canvas and the scissors in your hands are putting all the blame on the opposition, as if the opposition really had any power and even if they wanted to prove pluralism, and they can't, because I don't remember a single case in this mandate to support the proposals we made by the government. And that's a relatively sad statistic. Look, the subject deleted is of course extremely sensitive, and as I said, as one of those that has been erased, I know this issue well and I am also in favour of a just, fair and open legal solution. And here I'm surprised by one thing when we came to this technical law, which Mr. Secretary had introduced, was what the opposition would say. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that we should not do anything, he insisted that we move on. [[...]] And so we came into this, someone called the circus, but I wouldn't call it a circus, but a vicious circle, that we started spinning, spinning, spinning, and today we got here. For a long time, I wondered why this was so because this law or proposal of marriage [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u215	Time. My friend Bernik [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u216	It's over, please. Five minutes. This law is the end of a law that has very sensitive things and I think that we could unite with it if there was no political motive here. The political motive, however, is to brand the opposition as nationalists and so on and make them black in Europe and other things, I will not talk about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u217	Thank you very much, colleague Bernick. My friend Rupar has a word and a colleague of Sok at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u219	Please. Those who have had the opportunity to discuss it before are excluded from this possibility that they have it now if they have decided to Please. [[...]] Have you spoken before, Comrade Jakič? Yeah. Excuse me. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u220	You took 30 seconds of my time, Mr. Chairman. Good morning!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u221	My friend, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u222	Look at the watch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u223	Of course, I'll take that into account. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u224	So, at this point, we are not actually deciding any more about the referendum invitation, and we have already made this decision. Today, in fact, we are correcting only a forced error, which some Members of the United List and Liberal Democracy have artificially caused by the fact that you have already made a decision to refer the referendum to the Constitutional Court, nothing else. From the very cowardly statements, however, it is noted that today this decree will probably not be adopted because you are cowards because you fear [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u225	Please, let's not complicate it, buddy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u226	Referendum decisions, which you can continue to judge and assess, and because you know well that it will bring you on the plate all the discontent that has occurred in these 10 years, all of them. [[...]] If you do not confirm the decree, I hope that you are risking the assembly of large crowds, defrauded, defrauded, disappointed, around the transferred Slovenes and Slovenes, that you are, after all, risking the assembly and helping in this assembly, including those you have carried around the country most, that is, the 200,000 citizens of the former Yugoslav republics who have received citizenship with great promises, also at great risk and who today bear the consequences of your fraudulent promises, and risking great multitudes of people and great rebellion in the country. I am telling you this, and I am warning you, all those who, from the prodigals to those who still don't know how to live in apartments after denationalisation, still don't know how to find jobs, risk the people you took their pensions, risk the multitudes of students to whom you don't give running conditions as they deserve, just at the expense of something violent and unjust decision of the people we call wiped out and who you want to reward solely for the same reason, are voting votes. I warn you that today's action, if this proposal is not put to the vote, will be the most dirty decision of this national assembly in the history of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u227	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. Yesterday I heard a joke, a friend of mine told me that Mr. Biščak was on the show It's nice to be a millionaire and because he got stuck on the third question, he called Mr. Robby. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u229	This is not the subject of this debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u230	It's a joke. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u231	There's no need to shake the scarf now, Comrade Sok. Please focus on the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u232	called Mr. Rope and asked him whether he should decide for half or for the vote of the people, and then Mr. Rob advised him that [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u233	My friend Sok [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u234	Let him take half, for the voice of the people [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u235	My friend Sok [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u236	It's been gone a long time in this country. [[...]] So, I think that's exactly what you're afraid of, the voice of the people, and that's why you're going to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u237	Comrade Bajuk, then Comrade Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I decided not to make a decision, but when I listened to my colleague Kacin, I just thought I had to. Too bad he's not here. I'd like to tell him that I'm going to offer myself to him, and I'm going to offer to help him when it comes to explaining to some stranger what this is really about. And I will be proud to explain that, in the crucial moments when it was not clear whether we would achieve independence or not, this country is in its fundamental constitutional charter that the Constitution and the legal order of the SFRJ are over and a new system and a new legal order is emerging. And on the basis of this new legal order, a law on the implementation of the basic constitutional charter was passed, and there they confessed to all those who lived among us on the day of the plebiscite, and not of our kind, the same rights and obligations for a certain period, until this was arranged by law. I can tell anyone that. But I'm not so worried about foreigners, I'm worried about what kind of atmosphere is created in our own country when we speak to Slovenes and Slovenians that they're impatient and they're not real people. I've been around the world a lot, and I know what xenophobia is, and I've felt it a few times myself. However, I assure you that I do not see these signs in a modern independent Slovenian country and that today we can look with pride to everyone, and especially to a stranger in the eyes, because we regulate things in the way that is enshrined in our constitutional order. The referendum is not only an expense, my esteemed colleague Pohorec, but a referendum is the essence of our democracy. And if this referendum has even occurred, then go and review the magnetograms of how you voted on the amendment offered by the opposition. For four months now, things could have been arranged, gentlemen, only your arrogance has led Slovenia to this point. The only solution is the voice of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u239	My colleague Jakič is the last one to make a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, President. If then Demos supported the Metka Mencin amendment in the early 1990s, in fact, they would not be sitting here today to discuss it, but 18,305 people today would be staying with us in Slovenia as foreigners with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the big words are especially those that were not here at the time, how we should look into our eyes and say what we have done. What did we do? It's true, we've opened the door a lot and given 200,000 people an opportunity to acquire citizenship. Of these 200,000, 18,305 did not want them, for any reason or other. And, of course, instead of being like the Chinese, Americans, French and English in the Republic of Slovenia who lived here and had no opportunity to acquire citizenship, they automatically moved to the register of foreigners with permanent residence - we did not do this for 18,305 people. And this is very difficult on the European floor to explain to our colleagues, very difficult. Of course, I will ask that they will sometimes help me, especially those members of the European Conservative Party Federation, when it is also on their agenda. You know that in the European Parliament there is a lot to talk about, and sooner or later, colleagues will also be asking Lois Peterlet, Janez Podobnik and Dr Brejc, what "rased people" means. Look, the most serious problem in this story is in fact that it is the belief that it is possible to democratically abolish human rights and the rule of law. Look, it's not only about ignorance of European standards, but in the end, this developed Europe is not immune to the political exploitation of chauvinism, but it is about beating fundamental civil values. But what hurts me the most is that they're beating the values that this country has grown. I was in Roška because of Janez Janša and three of his friends, because of the beating of his human rights and of course all citizens and citizens. [[The ad from the bench.]] That was, Mr. Janša, the lowest and lowest blow I've ever had here. See, the initiators of the referendum claim that they object only to the law, but not to the decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm gonna finish. I'm sorry I got distracted. But see if, at the end of this sad story, our country will once again renounce the rights of thousands of people it has dealt with for decades, I will not say, like a pig with fur, but, of course, in an unseemly way, then the moral and human bankruptcy of the Slovenian state is inevitable and without a call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u241	Now I'm going to order a 20-minute recess, and the National Assembly will meet again at 9:50. I don't think any other parliamentary group wants to take a break from 20 to 45 minutes, peace in the hall, at 9:40, we'll meet again, until then I interrupt the debate, 21.40. The debate is closed. We'll move on to a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u242	We'll continue the session. Please check your voting devices. We'll move on to a decision. Excuse me? My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u243	I have a procedural proposal to move the decision on this point to the time before the decision in the third reading on the first item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992. Of course, there have been so many such and different complications that it is entirely possible that that part of the interpretation given by the Secretary of the Legislative and Legal Service, which speaks about when it is possible and necessary to accept this in order to verify it and at this time, that is to say, until the third hearing, which will be held in the course of this meeting, let us also clarify this and then decide on this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u244	Is this a proposal on behalf of the Group of Members to postpone the decision on the motion for a decree to? [[...]] Just so we're clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u245	Just before the third hearing. Therefore, before the third consideration of the law, which is under the first paragraph of this meeting, we shall decide on this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u246	The sending groups now have three minutes to comment on this proposal. Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u247	This proposal contradicts article 90 of the Constitution and article 19 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Article 90 of the Constitution states: "The National Assembly may hold a referendum on matters governed by law. The National Assembly is tied to the outcome of the referendum. The National Assembly may sign the referendum referred to in the preceding paragraph on its own initiative, but it must call it out if at least a third of the Members, the State Council or 40,000 voters so require." But he has to write it down! Article 19 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative states: "The National Assembly shall present a preliminary referendum no later than 30 days after the request for a referendum has been made." And the second paragraph speaks of the situation in which we are now when this request goes to the Constitutional Court: "In the case referred to in Article 16, the National Assembly shall call for a referendum no later than 7 days after the decision of the Constitutional Court is received that the request for a referendum is not unconstitutional." No later than 7 days after receipt of the decision! This seventh day ends at 2400 hours. So you have two hours and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u248	Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u249	In the parliamentary group, we oppose the replacement of the order of treatment, which is our position.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u250	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u251	We also oppose such a proposal in the Slovenian National Party Group. According to our assessment, it is exclusively a matter of deceiving the most national assembly, or Members and Members of Parliament. I think that all together should have the responsibility to respect the rules of law, the law on referendum and human initiative, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the rules of good behaviour, which I think would be the most important part at this time. In the National Party, we will therefore not support any proposal coming from the Liberal Democracy in the interest and in the sense of delaying the deadline, thereby preventing normal referendums and asking them from this place to stop this kind of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u252	My colleague Potč and his colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u253	In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will support this proposal. We are convinced that respect for article 90 of the Constitution can be ensured within two, three days. If this proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u254	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u255	we do not accept, but it is very likely that we will never respect paragraph 7 of the Constitutional Court decision in I-246/2 of 3.4.2003 because the opposition will not allow the indirect law for the implementation of this decision to be adopted at any time. [[...]] So, you're impeding respect for the constitutional decision, we'd both like to do it within a reasonable time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u256	Colleagues and colleagues, anyone else? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! We cannot support the proposal of colleagues from the LDS, the United List and DeSUS because, contrary to point 10 of the Constitutional Court's opinion, we all received this from the decision of the Group of Members received on 26 January: "If the Constitutional Court finds that the content of the request is not inconsistent with the Constitution or that there is no unconstitutional effect, the State Council must call a referendum within seven days at the latest" - this is today. This obligation is already based on the Constitution and the refusal to comply with it would constitute a violation of Article 20(2) of the Constitution. Colleagues and colleagues, we urge you to withdraw your proposal because you are consciously violating the Constitution. This is the wrong way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u258	Peace in the hall! Comrade Podobnik has only one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u259	The President, we also believe that, as President of the National Assembly, this proposal should not be put to the vote, nor should it be put to the vote. Also, of course, this must not be the time to buy pressure on the minister to start issuing decisions at that time. It is said that the proposal is eloquently contrary to the opinion of the Constitutional Court and the Constitution alone; it must not come to a vote in the National Assembly. So we expect not to vote on him at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u260	I will now order a 10-minute recess to consult with the leaders. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm asking for peace in the hall. 10 minutes for consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, room 217.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u261	Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal was to decide within the framework of this meeting. This meeting shall take into account Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure. This means that this decision has been taken if one third of the Members present do not object. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u262	I, of course, believe that if you intend to interpret the points of the Rules of Procedure in a way that you are now doing, to consciously take it back to where you were actually at the time of the suspension of the meeting yourself, you have taken this point of the agenda, so please bring it back in the same way as it was before you broke the point. We can proceed with point 1 and then, in the second reading, we conclude the debate on point 1 and then we decide on the decision. I think it is perfectly correct and in accordance with the rules of procedure. So, we decide on the ruling before the third hearing of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u263	This is in the context of this meeting and this is referred to in Article 65. Mag. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Members, we understood that the proposal should be decided in accordance with Article 65. With regard to substantive matters, we have stated the reasons that it is for us to decide on the decision, a motion for a decision which is unconstitutional, and the procedure is Article 65. In view of all of this, we object to a decision being taken in such a way as to adopt, in so far as such a decision would be taken, an unconstitutional decision. I am informing and informing my colleagues that the Group of Members will vote against this proposal for a decision, as Mr Anderlič has offered.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u265	Just a minute. You explained, I'll give you my word again. I would like to say, too, that I have pointed out to the College that we are bound to a seven-day deadline, and I have said this immediately at the beginning of this meeting, that I will interrupt the debate, because there was such an agreement in college that the debate will be suspended so that we can go to the decision-making process, so I have done nothing that is not expected. Your proposal was to decide whether a decision should still be taken in the context of this sitting, you yourself said, before the transition to third reading, and therefore Article 65 will be taken into account and I can put your proposal to the vote on the basis of this. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u266	Given that you have also been working against the Rules of Procedure when you gave the Group of Members who have already explained the vote at this point [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u267	I'll give you my word, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u268	No, no, I haven't explained yet on behalf of the delegation. I have made a procedural proposal, which means that, after a procedural proposal has been made, each parliamentary group has the opportunity to make a statement within three minutes and the LDS has not made a statement, Mr Pukšič in that procedure and I ask you to familiarise yourself with the rules of procedure and to monitor matters. I believe that there have been so many today, I will not say grave violations, because this is an overly simple word, a rule of procedure, but an abuse, even when you interrupted this point under Article 73, you did so without any consultation and no decision. I believe that you can do this in the same way now if you think that it is a procedural proposal of nature as you have defined. I say that, in the context of this sitting, it is possible to terminate this item of the agenda and to proceed with the first one, to carry out the second reading and then to adopt the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u269	This is a decision in the course of this meeting. Once again, my announcement that I would interrupt the meeting at a certain point and move to a decision-making session was known to the College and to the National Assembly at the start of today's extraordinary meeting. We are bound by the law and the constitution, and I think we need to move to a decision, namely your proposal, but after Article 65, colleague Anderlič. Please, colleague Anderlich, then colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u270	Look, there was no agenda anywhere. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u271	Excuse me, I think it's a very short performance and I'm sorry, Comrade Rupar, we're on a very important question and I'm going to give Koleg Anderlich, then my colleague Barovic. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u272	There was no indication from the agenda that you would interrupt the first item of the agenda, but it was more than obvious that you were at least one hour late at the beginning of the meeting because you requested an opinion in writing, which had already been given in college. This is true and, of course, then you have broken the agenda without an agreement and in the same way you can also break the point now and continue with the first item of the agenda and then decide on this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u273	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u274	Thank you very much. My respectable colleague, Sasha Peca, was in college. The truth is, he was in college, I believe him, agreed that at eight to half-nine he would stop, decide on this point and proceed first. I believe him, so we have 43 minutes to go, and I suggest we take a decision on the procedural proposal made by Mr Tone Anderlich, a respected colleague. However, the Slovenian National Party's Group will absolutely oppose this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u275	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I would just like to say that the will of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats that before the second hearing is completed is said to be before the decision on the third hearing at today's or the meeting that is under way can be made at the next but as soon as it is done, the decision is decided. We have made it clear why, we do not hide this, given the way we work, we do not believe that you are willing to participate in the adoption of the law. This is the will, and you, Mr President, will act in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u277	I'll make a decision. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u278	All right, if you insist on this decision, I propose that we postpone the decision-making decision to the next meeting, which can also, according to the proposal, be convened very quickly and that we conclude the decision once we have completed the first item of the agenda, that is also in this part of the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u279	I propose, if possible, that we decide under Article 65. We cannot go to the 74th because this would mean that we are adjourning to one of the next meetings, which means that the Council of State explicitly assumes its responsibility not to respect the constitution which sets a 7-day deadline. If, for example, today or a few minutes or hours in the course of a sitting, but these extraordinary sessions, were to make a decision because of some objective circumstances, you might still understand that. But to postpone the decision to one of the next meetings, I don't think it's possible. For the next session? No, I think that means we postpone the decision from this extraordinary session to a new one. I don't think that's possible. I can make a proposal under Article 65, and I will also put such a proposal to the vote - under Article 65. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u280	I have amended the proposal and I ask you to put that one to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u281	I think the state council has a decision to make today. I think it was clear that in the course of this meeting we will decide on the decision, Comrade Anderlič, yes, which is why it was also on the agenda. The proposal to postpone it to the next session cannot be put to the vote because the State Assembly will be in strict breach of the constitutional deadline. In this case, I will put an order to the vote. No amendments were tabled for the motion for a decree. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th point of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain the voice? Please, buddy Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u282	Mr President, under such a way of leading as you just staged it, I cannot, under any circumstances, do anything but vote against it. I am not just voting against the ruling, I am voting against your abuse of the presidency of the National Assembly. Mr. President, we have elected you to lead us. But what's happening now wasn't leadership. You rejected two proposals, and you did not allow us to make a decision. That's why we're going to decide now, but the decision is for you. I speak for myself, not on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u283	We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. Please, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Regardless of how this debate took place, I will personally vote in favour of the decree, for a simple, single reason, though with a very sad heart. I respect the will of the people, and the people are the ones who, by the Constitution, are beautifully written down, having the highest authority in our country. All others, we are the first to be directly elected from the people, all others, constitutional judges, judges and so on, the government is directly elected from us. However, I believe that the Constitutional Court is not intruding, even though this time the truth was voted unitedly, all 9 for it. And the other thing is, who was wrong when they voted five to four at the time, whether four were wrong or wronged by those five? According to democratic rules, the majority prevails. In the United States, they don't have a constitutional court, they have a supreme court. And as for 117 decisions, the U.S. Congress has rejected what the Supreme Court has decided. From Germany, we have a case that the Constitutional Court so allegedly violated the Constitution when it allowed because it had written down in the Constitution that the Federal Republic of Germany should not send its troops to other countries. How does our constitutional court work? Why this constitutional court, I doubt it? Nowhere in the world is retrograde work done, and it took more than 2 years for pensions to be confirmed by 150, although no country is prejudiced by retrograde rights and pensioners have had these rights, and now they are reduced by 0.5% every year by 2025 when those [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u285	The debate is closed [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u286	will be the current generation of pensioners [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u287	My friend, Kebrich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u288	And those who still come into these kinds had the same pension base [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u289	Time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u290	72 and a half percent. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u291	Time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u292	Only for that will I personally respect the will of the people [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u293	My friend, Kebrich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u294	and voted in favour of this decree. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u295	Time's up. [[...]] Comrade Janez Janša, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u296	So, an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Please, three minutes. Look, we will, of course, support this decree. I don't think anyone in this room has the right to vote any other way. Especially not those who spoke of constitutionality four hours ago. And it is not permissible to mix the decision of the Constitutional Court with that of the Constitution. There is no one above the Constitution, nor Members, except when two-thirds of the votes are raised and amended. Above the decision of the Constitutional Court, your fellow Members, and you have proved this in 2000, is a national assembly with a two-thirds majority. The National Assembly may, by a two-thirds majority, legitimately and as you have proved, also legally amend the decision of the Constitutional Court. This road is open. That this was admissible was also found by the Venice Commission. However, in violation of article 90 of the Constitution, I think it is really unacceptable, and it is not an invitation from a party that has four Members, but a party that rules this country. We have here a government party calling on the National Assembly to scrupulously violate the Constitution. As this condition is called, you can figure it out for yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u297	Comrade Kangler, explanation of voice. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. Since I didn't get a word before, I'm going to explain my voice now. I have no choice but to respect the Constitution, as I respect what the Constitutional Court has told me to call a referendum within seven days. I will do the same, although I am almost sure that my voice will be too small for this decision to be adopted today by some of my fellow Members on the other hand, who are likely to make a different decision. However, the Constitution stipulates that we must call for a referendum when 30 Members decide to propose it. I regret that some of our fellow Members today thought that those of us who thought differently were extremists, Circusants, that constitutional laws were only a farce, that the knowledge of the referendum was compared to the construction of two schools. We could also use such and other indications: how much the falcon costs, how much the hangars cost some other privatisations, how much some other projects worth talking about in public would be worth talking about, and today the word would fall on the Prime Minister or any other minister, and we have not done so because we respect the Rules of Procedure, we respect the Constitution. However, the hour of truth takes place today in this Chamber, not after the elections, not before the elections. I am not personally disturbed by public research or by the opinion of any other expert or individual. I take into account the Constitution, follow the Rules of Procedure and also follow the majority [[...]] [[A vote for the end of the debate.]] I will therefore also undermine this decree to sign a referendum, as stipulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u299	My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u300	Thank you very much, President. Human wickedness knows no borders, and man has been living in some tragedies for the past 100, 200 years. Let's see, more than 100 years ago on the Soviet front, because I'm sure every single one of you sitting here, inside of someone buried as many as have fallen. Now 100 years later, we will come from the left side of Gorica, throw stones away, harmonica will be eaten, ham will be eaten, we will drink and we will act. I don't think it's right that so much anger was angry with people who really didn't do anything to us, people from the north came from the south, Germans and Romani. We've had hostages killed, people in Dachau, Gonars chased, but now, after a while, we've forgotten everything and they're our best friends. We had people we used to go out to sea with. I was alone down there, living in great and desperate poverty. Anyone who has not seen how they live in Kosovo or Belgrade may be surprised. And we were a very noble people, that we sold weapons to these people at the price of rags, with war profit, to swear among themselves, that some of them had blood on their hands to the cubits. And what we do with the people we live with now, at this point, and earlier, goes beyond what would bind me to the constitution. However, I think that there was not enough will in this national assembly to have that marriage voted before, not so much, and then to talk about it; if there were, we could have done it in two hours if we had the courage. And you're marrying this thing into such extremes! I don't think it's a violation of the Constitution, so we can do all these things today. And in this way my voice will not go, however you take it, for me to vote in favour, but I will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u301	Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u302	I will explain the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. For the first time in Parliament in this mandate, the New Slovenia Group hoped that everything would run according to procedures, so that everything would run according to the rules of procedure. The first disappointment was much earlier that this small constitution, the Rules of Procedure, did not apply in this National Assembly. Colleagues from the Liberal Democracy said we have the most mandates, we have the power to rule, we will rule through a procedure that we have also adopted. It's a violation of the rules of procedure. It was a bitter experience for us. The next bitter experience is today’s bitter experience when we discuss whether we would even respect the Constitution. You know, it's not enough that you have a majority of the votes, of course, that you respect the constitution. And in this national assembly, there is obviously no longer the will to respect the Constitution. In our Parliamentary Group, New Slovenia, we will vote in favour of this decree. We have nothing to do with weapons. Those you have to do with weapons, and those you have so much to say, speak out loud and clear, and even the ruling coalition; when you have all the institutions under your directive, start work and let the official authorities do it as they should. In short, the New Slovenia Group will not participate in such a business. If we have something to solve, we certainly have what it takes to deal with Slovenian citizens. However, dealing with foreigners or others who have fulfilled the conditions in accordance with our laws is also our obligation. But surely we are not obliged to solve the world’s problems, those we are not even partial to ourselves. There are certainly problems in Tibet, including Colombia, even Kosovo, even in Yugoslavia, and there are problems elsewhere. But we must maintain a sober head, respect the Constitution, and respect human rights. In this case, however, it is not about respect for human rights but about freedoms. In short, the New Slovenia Group will support this decree. And we think it's time to make that decision as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u303	My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course, I will support, although I feel a bit uneasy all along, today and many days earlier, knowing how little political wisdom was needed and not faced with this decision, not with the previous debate, such a cruel debate for man if this arrogant majority could manage a little bit of petty political wisdom. You're being arrogant when you're being accepted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u305	n.e.c. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u306	By Performing Today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u307	Comrade Brenčič, there is no controversy, only explanation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u308	against the President, who shall meet in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u309	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u310	For these arrogancees of yours, I too will be forced to support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u311	My friend Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u312	Thank you for your word. I will support the decree because I want to respect the Constitution. When, in fact, Parliament, or certain parties, or Members, are placed in a position to say that they will not respect the Constitution, and at that time this Member is no longer worthy to represent the people in a democratic country, because then all the funds can be allowed. Please, this is about the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u313	Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today it has been said several times that we are dealing with a decree that is similar to one decree or referendum that was very bad or the worst. I don't think we've ever had such a decision and such a referendum in this country. When we call on the will of the people to show what will happen - what will we tell them, what will they decide? Are we going to tell them about nothing? What are we going to ask them: that we don't ask them anything? Except that we open up a room of manoeuvre to sell demagogies and lies - citizenship, compensation, that's what we're going to tell them. What they're going to decide about - nothing! What our referendum in Slovenia is turning into - a referendum violence against these people, to whom we call for people's will to decide now, which will not decide anything. The total number of referendums has come so far as not to decide anything, except that we will pressure them with violence: decide on nothing. I'm resisting to vote for such an order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u315	A colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is right to say that if we do not vote on this decision for this second, we will not violate the Constitution. If we do not adopt a decision today, it does not mean that we will not vote on it. However, we wanted to vote it, as we proposed for a certain reason when the agenda was adopted - after the second reading of the system law had been completed. You will not tell the Constitution that it commands us to have two referendums on the same thing and not, if possible, one referendum. The seven-day deadline is not set in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, not in article 90, nor in the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, which does not provide for this particular case; in fact, in one way, as has already been explained, we have incorporated it into this legal situation at the same time. Finally, if we were to work normally today, the second treatment of the system law, given that only three amendments had been tabled by the opposition, would have been adopted and so normally decided on the decision. So understand that we want to respect the Constitution, we want to save on a possible referendum initiative, of course, the corresponding tax money.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u317	Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not gonna be nice. Today you have broken the rules of procedure, but as a rule, you have broken the rules of procedure when it was necessary to settle the matter in such a way that it was acceptable to the opposition. You used Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure when it was appropriate for you - on the proposal of colleague Anderlič. You did not use it when I suggested it myself, and I even proposed a vote on whether you properly interpret the rules or not - you did not allow it. You're on your own for this situation we're in. My opinion is that no serious unconstitutionality that you see as a scarecrow would have been if you had made that decision after you'd done the second reading of the law. No serious contradictions! Why not? Even if we read the Constitutional Court's decision, the referendum at which people will decide nothing is very little unconstitutional to say so. They are entitled to decide nothing at the referendum! Yeah, that's crazy, and it's gonna cost 600 million dollars. Of course, I will abstain in my decision, but I think you are a great deal of the fact that they are in such a situation as we are in this moment, you can also prescribe for yourself because you did not conduct today's meetings properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u319	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Your Honor! These requirements of non-compliance with the Constitution are horrifying. But it is good for history that this call for a violation of the Constitution, a threat to the President of the National Assembly, for it points to constitutionality and all this, recorded. That this is a statement of who will vote against the constitution, under the cameras. It's just that there are tremendously frightening feelings when I see that at a time when you realize that you do not have the support of the people, that you are against the people and against the stop. What does that mean? Does this mean that we are before Slovenian crystal night? Mr President of the National Assembly, I ask you to call on the President of the State and the Commander-in-Chief, because I fear that anyone in this country is capable of insulating this National Assembly and the President of the State with what kind of colonels. I hope it doesn't happen to him that he won't be able to react. That's how it started. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u321	Comrade Jerovšek, we are talking about a decree [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u322	Before crystal night. [[...]] There were no more rules - the abolished constitution - and I think you are just one step further. These feelings are actually frightening.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u323	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u324	Thank you very much. In preparation for this meeting, I did not even think about the decision, because I was sure that we would propose to vote on it, we accepted it on the home labour body without discussion. Today's debate on the ruling, ladies and gentlemen, you are guilty of opposition. Thinking about not voting for him is guilty of the opposition, because you are not prepared, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u325	There is no controversy, no explanation of voice, no peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u326	to accept [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u327	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u328	also a law that, according to your proposals and at your request, will settle all matters, except once again, two; this is to completely annul the decision of the Constitutional Court and not admit that the injustices have been committed. [[...]] Colleagues and colleagues know, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u329	Order! You have no say, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u330	I was confident just before this vote that this National Assembly would gather the strength to postpone the decision for a day or two. [[...]] This could also be done because, among other things, the 14th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision of 22 December 2003 states, "the contention of the national assembly that the end of the period referred to in Article 22 does not exempt the national assembly of obligations does not constitute a referendum, as this is its duty under paragraph 290. Articles." So, a day or two later, we could agree, but since you insist that we vote today, I will vote against it today, and in two or three days, I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u331	Comrade Kremjar, Bajuk, Auschwitz and Tsukati are in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Talking about arrogance is sarcasm right now. For whether there is a greater arrogance than this, to know that people will not talk at the referendum about what the question will be raised, and to expect and say in advance that something else will show this referendum - that is arrogance. It's arrogant and it's a distortion of some top democratic institute. Therefore, of course, the greater arrogance is to remain signed under this and to report arrogance to others because they warn people that they will be asked something, they will say another, and a third answer is expected. This is the result of this referendum that we will have, and nothing more than this. Therefore, the proposal put forward in connection with the adoption of the law is something that we all have been saying all the time that we want to solve this issue in its entirety. Ladies and gentlemen, to some, I must also say in my judgment, of course this is not the case, I have already said this before today. That's not what this is about! Because if this were the case, we'd have adopted both marriages. But the amendments that you have proposed today, which delete that there is no law, are absolutely clear that you do not want to - and this needs to be said very clearly and out loud - of the system law, despite the fact that you are always talking about how the system issue needs to be regulated and adopted. You don't want it. You don't want it. And I have to say that today's session is going this way too, so let's not do it, so I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u333	Comrade Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I often find it very difficult to understand certain things that I hear in this national assembly. And now the word "referendum violence" has actually hit. Referendum violence, a very interesting concept. What are we going to decide about, what are we going to tell people? We will tell them the truth. We will tell them that on June 25, 1991, this country opened its doors very largely and offered everything it had to the same extent to all those who were not of our kind, even the same rights and duties as we have declared ourselves. That's what we're gonna tell them! And we will tell them that by this decision, once this law is repealed, we will create the possibility that this country will really be able to solve all the things that the Constitutional Court has warned us about. In fact, the mistakes that have occurred will be resolved in such a way that we respect our constitution, respect our independence and continue to act in accordance with the nobility that the Slovenian people have shown in June 1991. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u335	I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u336	Thank you for your word. In fact, we don't know who's been wiped out. If I had a chance at the previous point, I would present to you the case of my classmate, a young friend who had been erased, who had the only bad luck to be born in Zagreb and after a few years went to Brežice and since then lived in Brežice. And he was erased because he didn't believe he had to ask anything from this country. The extensive biography is written in the Evening, on Saturday, you can read it, have a name and surname, this is Niko Jurkas, my classmate. Finally, he wrote this: "The culprits of evil would like to divert guilt from themselves and want to ask the Slovenians who already live in abundance, whether they are willing to give me back my certificate" who, of course, did not get it as no one did. "My neighbor, who doesn't know that he's on the run, screamed in the mayor's radio class that we were going to kill them at the time. That's what public opinion is." He concluded, "God is my witness, that everything here is written in pure truth." There is no rule on human rights, and that is why we will not be able to adopt this decree today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u337	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u338	Thank you for your word. What bothers me is that, in fact, here are those who declare themselves and argue why they will vote against resorting to some incomprehensible things: because you are not what we expected because you did not do so. In short, because you're not very nice to us, because this is a proposal from an opposition. Gentlemen, this is no longer a matter of sympathy, it is a question of whether we will respect the Constitution or also respect the constitutional court that said, this referendum is nothing to undermine human rights, it is completely legitimate and we have the right to it. That's all that matters: whether we respect our constitution, our laws. When the 23 Members requested an extraordinary meeting, none of the opposition opposed the extraordinary solicitor, although we would also have a thousand comments on how stupid such an extraordinary session is, what we will do with it, but you have the right to have a right under the rules of procedure, and here is the right under the constitution. I fear for the country where the rule of law begins to collapse in the legislative body. In the next phase, the judges will say: we will evaluate laws, criminal codes and everything else, and then again the second and the next, and also the taxes, people will no longer pay. Why should we respect laws if the National Assembly does so with its laws, with its constitution, with its rules of procedure? It's not a cough, gentlemen, it's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u339	I will give my word to my colleague Jakić, Vukko, Tanku, my colleague Zupanov, Bernik and Grošlje. My friend Jakič has his word, my friend Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u340	Thank you for your word, President, once again. Of course, I join those criticisms that speak of today's leadership. I must say that I no longer understand anything in this country, but above all I do not understand those who say that we are doing something unconstitutional today. Let me quote, please, from the constitution where the constitution says about this seven-day deadline. No, please, if anyone in the constitution can quote me on this! But, as you know, I will not support this decision alone because I am against the referendum, and of course I do not think that this referendum is in conflict or that opposition to this referendum is not contrary to the Constitution. Look, I think we want to institutionalise an "yogurt revolution" in Slovenia with this referendum. See, in the light of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the advocates of the referendum really know that at least legally speaking, their initiative is doomed at its final stage to failure. Why? Because, politically speaking, they are promising a huge political profit from the whole thing, but despite the fact that the referendum is likely to succeed, the authorities - I stress - will have to ignore it because you already have a constitutional decision on it. Look, architects, I will now conclude with the words of my friend Matjaž Grudna, who has a permanent residence, and the Slovenian in France is in a very high position in the Council of Europe. He wrote in a letter that, unfortunately, the public had not been able to read. And he wrote: "The architects of the Cyrillic version of the servant Jernej hope that the government will, as a result of this in the next elections, "the nation will happen: During political and economic integration into the EU, Slovenia will return civilisationally to the Balkans." And I do not want to be part of this return to the Balkans, but of course I am looking forward to Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u341	Thank you. Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u342	Thank you, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u343	There's no controversy. I've already warned you, Comrade Jerovšek. Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u344	I will vote against the adoption of this decree today, because I do not believe that we are in violation of the Constitution unless today we adopt or confirm this resolution on the call for a referendum. In particular, not as Irma Pavlinič Krebs, a colleague of Irma Krebs, mentioned that the Constitution does not provide for a time-limit for the national assembly to call a referendum when 30 Members require it. On the other hand, I do not say that, to the extent that certain assumptions are met, that is to say, we are going in the direction that it has been proposed to try a comprehensive solution to this problem, to which Members and Members of the opposition parties in particular have always been alerted. It is said that we resolve these issues definitively with the system law. And I think that this decision is giving us this opportunity today. However, I fear that there is no real political will, that there is no willingness to take a bite at what is necessary at this point. And one more thing. I will vote against it because I want and want to avoid a double referendum, which will cost this country two hundred million tolars. And today there has been a lot of talk about how many rights have been done in this country on a case-by-case basis. But it's interesting to know who's in favor of the Constitution today. Those who are always and constantly opposed to the Constitutional Court's decision and do not wish to execute it, and this also falls within the framework of a constitutional order. That is why, once again, I will vote against it, and I do not want the fate of individuals to depend on some political adventurers.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u345	I will now give my word to my colleagues Tank, my colleague Zupanov, Bernik, Grošlja, Sok and Rupar. Thin.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u346	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the proposal, because we have tried everything in the opposition with constructive proposals to bring into one marriage what we think is acceptable to this country. The problem is also that you do not speak the same language, a little earlier it was the explanation of the legal and legislative service that the law was not regulated by the same matter, and Krebs' colleague said a few moments earlier that it was the same or the same thing. In short, the confusion on your part is perfect. In 2000, when the elections were held in the National Assembly, we elected 90 Members. We fully trusted them that you could then form your government. In 2003, when people made spiritual progress, when their sightseeing also increased, when they realized what you were actually doing, we no longer trust them to decide a completely trivial matter - just "for" or "again". The choice of 90 Members, which is much more complicated, we trusted them, while this trivial thing is not. I think that in this country it is necessary to decide on this matter, and on the basis of the Constitution and the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative and anyone who opposes it is likely that it is against only because it is possible that it has, somewhere behind a secret official document or a permanent regulation, that it is invoked and that it does not respect this constitutional order and also that, when it does not support it, it undermines the rule of law. In short, this illegality, which is one of the main problems of this country, is caused by the ruling coalition mainly by the United List and by the Liberal Democracy. We will therefore also support this rule of law to be ensured and maintained.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u347	A colleague of Zupanov's.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u348	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support the ruling myself, because I believe that the referendum was the only instrument with which the ruling majority in Parliament wanted to adopt a solution that most Slovenes and Slovenes objected to being the only instrument with which the opposition raised the rare chart and said: stop. I am confident that the outcome of the referendum will be the response of citizens and citizens to your rescue of the so-called deleted, that the answer to your way of ruling, to your arrogance, will be in your way to solve the problems that push Slovenia and Slovenia into the swamps of increasing undemocraticism. It is very good to draw the post-transitional image of a Slovenian society in which the two largest ruling parties are the bearers of capital and the private interest of the new rich layer, and on the other hand, poverty and unemployment are becoming increasingly visible. And if citizens and citizens know how to answer this correctly
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u349	We're talking about a decree. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u350	We can promise that there will be changes. [[....]] Until then, however, it is also necessary to mobilise referendum crowds, and there is no need for any mobilisation since different solutions are being communicated on various polls, broadcasts, round tables, and until then solutions need to be reached, which will be more appropriate and fairer. And this. However, in order to become a referendum, the ultimate endorsement of Slovenian parliamentary democracy should be much closer to, say, as close as we were when we decided for the European Union and for NATO. This was our joint project and the problem of deleted should be our joint project.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u351	Dr. Bernick's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. I observe that we have a great deal of concern here that there will be a violation of the Constitution, that some who have been erased will be wronged and so on. That's all well and good, but I would like to point out that we haven't talked about the ethics of our thinking and what we're saying. I would be very moved if I knew that what some colleagues on the left really meant. But that's, like, purely "painting" people. For at the time of the adoption of the law concerning the tombs of war, you never remembered that so many and so many people were killed, they were still lying there, but they were still lying there today, and there was no sympathy whatsoever, just as it had been erased. It is said that this morality, or ethics, which some so vehemently advocate is nothing more than a disguise to conceal your own interests. And we're going to have to remember that something like this is not possible in a democratic society. And I hope you'll remember that, too, and remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u353	My friend Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u354	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, allow me to give my interpretation of article 90 of the Constitution as well. I understand, of course, that this is not the original right to initiate proceedings immediately or to proceed with a procedure on the proposal of 30 Members, because in this case, we could then do so on the basis of the Constitution, not the relevant law. That gives me, of course, to think. The interpretation of the Constitutional Court itself, which has also found in this opinion that the Group of Members and Members was not entitled to submit a request for an assessment of the decision calling for this legislative referendum and has therefore rejected it. At the same time, however, it also stated that this does not mean that the decision declaring this legislative referendum could not be contested, but that the Constitutional Court in this case did not have to raise questions as to who and under what conditions could initiate the procedure or submit an initiative. This also, of course, means that in such fundamental rights as human rights, there is probably still a certain procedure, I would say, a possibility, and therefore an appropriate decision should be adopted. Since I believe that this is a violation of the most basic human right, I will also vote against such a decision and I think that a different procedure for re-assessment in the Constitutional Court may also be initiated.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u355	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Therefore, if you have looked at the draft constitutional law they have proposed, you may find that we have proposed that the permanent residence permit be obtained with effect from the date of the application, if the application has been unlawfully rejected, rejected or not issued by the authority, but should be subject to the law. Or if the application was rejected for failure to comply with the conditions which the applicant could not meet due to objective circumstances which prevented the acquisition or transfer of the relevant instrument from the former SFRY area. So it is not true that the opposition would not have a constructive position on this issue. Second. For those of you who are concerned about the 600 million we are supposed to spend on the referendum, I have a proposal: you have a sufficient majority, we merge the elections with the referendum. Let's both do it for one day, and we'll save this money. It is obvious, however, that you will not accept this decision tonight and that the word respect for the Constitution will be trampled on tonight. What consequences this will have in our future, and evaluate for yourself. Of course, I will vote in favour of this decree because I cannot imagine not respecting the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u357	My friend, Rupar. Two more to go, so I invite my colleagues and my colleagues to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u358	Thank you, President. Of course, I'll back this up myself. Regardless of my previous position, it is perfectly clear: it is the will and it is right for people to decide. And I can really, not prophetically, but very pessimistically suggest that you will gather in such a majority and throw this proposal, despite the fact that most people do not want it, but require it to be demanded. And the arguments I heard, when we got something on the table, I'm going to vote about it, because that's the way it is, and my political responsibility here is no one cares. Even though someone is reading an article about his classmate who has been wandering around Slovenia for 12 years, it is not fair enough to go to this classmate at least once in 12 years to give him a hint. The notion that someone is concerned about this 600 million dollars! Look, these 600 million tolars are going to be distributed to the Slovenians who are going to be on the polls there, counting votes and controlling the elections, they're going to be going to the money, but 600 million, sorry, you're worried. As many gentlemen as you are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u359	You don't have to raise your voice, Comrade Rupar, you have one word, but you don't have to raise your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u360	I've got to scream, let's stop them.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u361	Please. You have the only word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u362	I understand they're afraid of bird flu, but...
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u363	Well, well, colleague Rupar. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u364	No, please, Mr President, I have the right to say they have no right to disturb me, and I have given peace. I just want to say that - yes, Mr. Kacin, the left wheel of the Falcon was 600 million [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u365	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u366	Or leather for Falcon seats cost 600 million [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u367	Time's up, buddy Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u368	No, Mr. President, you took half a minute from me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u369	Comrade Rupar, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u370	This is half of the principal's salary you place to operate with the property of the Maribor vehicle factory. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u371	Comrade Rupar, close up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u372	But now you're worried about 600 million [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u373	Time's up. Thank you very much. Two others have been reported - colleague Petan and colleague Bevk. Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u374	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. This debate reminds me of the debate exactly four years ago, when we also had a human will hearing, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u375	There's too much unrest in the hall. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u376	and the decision of the Constitutional Court. [[...]] At that time, we also listened to the destructive killings of respect for the Constitution and the laws, and everything else was more important than that. You tell us that in fact it is not our business to save this thing, for if we were successful, then we would destroy both things; and the law and the decree. Ladies and gentlemen, if everything were as it should be, then we wouldn't have either. If you weren't so arrogant, then there wouldn't be this law on deleted or a request for a referendum. But because of your arrogance to your own people, you ignore them at all levels where you have to, and cultically worship those who have never seen themselves in Slovenia, who have never seen Slovenia as their own country, but those who would, of course, be allowed and allowed everything. On the other hand, if it's not yours, then people don't decide anything. Your concern about what we'll tell people, if there's a referendum, I can tell you, don't worry, we'll tell people what they've been erased and what's the problem with being erased. We will be able to explain them very nicely, but if it is not your way, then breaking the Constitution is not a violation of the Constitution; if there is no problem with you, if we do not hold any hands and no laws. If it's not yours, then there's no problem if we don't respect the Constitution today, but in three days we can, then it'll be another time and then it'll be necessary. But I'm asking you why you're so afraid of this human will, these people who actually elected us. That's what they say. You only respect them when the elections are -- if they give you votes, then it's okay. To check our work and your work you're afraid of. I simply do not understand this and will therefore vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u377	The last person to have a say in explanation of vote is Comrade Bevk, so I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall, because then I will go to the vote. Please, Comrade Bevk, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u378	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! So to compare tonight with the crystal night of 1938 was really a big debate today. For at that time they were breaking down Jewish trades, breaking up Jewish synagogues, and then the Nazis showed their real criminal face, they were dead, they were wounded. The next day, 20,000 Jews and politically suspicious people were deported to camps, and I think that such comparisons in the National Assembly can only lead to an increase in intolerance. In the end, let me say that I will not support the ruling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u379	We're moving on to decision-making. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th point of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Is everything okay with the voting devices? Please check to see if there's a light on the voting device. I do not see any objections, so we are moving to a vote on the motion for a decree. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 76 present, 31 for and 35 for. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 35.]] The decision is not adopted. Please, Comrade Barovich, first of all, please, what are you trying to say?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u380	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's been a long, hard day. We were present at a meeting, which, in our view, should at least be regular after the first reference, and it is extraordinary. So we stayed. We have decided on the important decision of the National Assembly, which was adopted in this National Assembly and which has also been confirmed by the Constitutional Court. We have respected, although, in our view, once again, the wrong decision to be an extraordinary meeting today. Secondly, we know which do not respect their own decision, nor do we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court or the decisions of the people. As there will be no referendum on the basis of the decision as it was, the Slovenian National Party will not obstruct the continuation of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u381	Good. I suggest we proceed with the meeting, as suggested. I'll go in the order they were reported. My friend Puksic? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Barovich? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Jakich? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Rupar? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Azhish? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Wolf? [[No, no, ……]] Kacin's friend? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u382	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The law that we have before us, and especially the first article that I want to discuss, seems to me to be a bearable compromise, which, to the greatest extent possible, will cover all the embarrassments and difficulties that fall within the competence of Minister Dr. Rad Bohinc. If we do so, he no longer needs a technical law and will be braver in his actions in the future. That is why I intend to support not only this article, but the whole law, because it seems appropriate for us to get to it as soon as possible. A whole series of embarrassments would not have happened if we had made a timely decision on the system law. But since he's gone, and he's still gone, it's up to us to make him as soon as possible. And if we succeed today before midnight, we may be able to say tomorrow morning that we have returned from the Western Balkans to Central Europe and will be able to solve this problem along the administrative route, without the emotional charge and all the embarrassment we have been facing. But when we struggle with this law and this article and these proposals, I would like to say that in this light I truly understand the embarrassment of the Croatian government, which must take some decisions to prove that it respects human rights, which could prove that it is worth starting negotiations for entry into the European Union and ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And when I see what we've heard here today, not only on our right, but within our coalition, of course, I'm worried whether our neighbours can do it or not. Their coalition is significantly weaker and weaker, even though our God does not know what we have seen today. The operational capability has been tested, so I would like to conclude and say I support this article as well as the law and oppose the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u383	My friend Contic. [[You're giving up.]] The minister wanted a word. [[You're giving up.]] My friend Bayuk is not here, my friend Tank is not here. Anyone else want a word? A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u384	I would also like to refer to this amendment to delete Article 1 and repeat what Mr Potrč said that deleting this article in conjunction with deleting other articles means, in fact, rejecting the constitutional implementation of these provisions of the Constitutional Decision in its entirety. From this point of view, it is not a matter of some, I will say, of minor misunderstandings, as it would like to show through this very dispersed debate, but it is a system of amendments with this first one, which is somehow crucial, because it speaks of the content of the law, which actually means impeding the resolution of that part of the Constitutional Court's decision, which is not summarized in this remarkable technical law. Within the qualifications of this Article and the law, certain claims have been made which I also think are necessary. The key is this claim, which somehow sums up what was done with it, and says that the law corresponds to the majority mood. This is the Government's claim, and this claim may be true and solid in relation to some calculations, but it is, I would say, very problematic in terms of the things it needs to resolve. I therefore announce that I will also report to the next article, which is open, and say that this appropriate majority mood cannot be, I will say, a guide in solving this problem. Within this broad debate, which was triggered at Article 1, and I believe that many people find it strange that at this hour, even to say this, I have been given a lot of trouble, which I need to comment on. One of these problematic things that I think is said today by my colleague Sok - if I do injustice with the championship - is that the Constitutional Court is not properly organized. I am using this discussion to say that it would be a major problem if the Constitutional Court organised it as organised by this Parliament - by the presence of parties or views. There is no need not to explain in a broad way how bad it would be if, in some radical solution in proportion, these institutions, because then things would happen in a way similar to what is happening here. I suppose it is already painful for everyone to listen to what this law regulates, but nevertheless it is true to say that the law regulates, if we speak opinions of equality does not regulate, I will say, problems of the status of citizenship, but regulates the problem of equality of those who have become foreigners on a certain day of their own free will or, if you wish, also do not know in the Republic of Slovenia. From this point of view, those later provisions which classify these foreigners are problematic, depending on where they were employed, which are attributed to them for certain purposes, for which at least, what we can say, we do not all know in this Chamber. There are people who are unfortunately not here right now who know exactly who thought something, how he thought he felt, was loyal, wasn't loyal. These are things that are very evasive. There has also been a call that everyone has to decide in some way for one nationality. This is indeed a determination, or an idea, that we have all been looking forward to, but I would hope to say that if we looked around this Chamber, Members of dual citizenship would first have been in the parliamentary groups that have left this Chamber as they did in the parliamentary groups that have Members here at this time. But that's, I'll say, a personal circumstance. But what I'm saying is that this flat-rate speech translated into a policy later, not to speak into marriage, can be a stick that hits the one who says it first with a thick end. Therefore, the amendment - and here is the discussion - to delete the article, I object. Regardless of what I said at the beginning of this debate, I find it pointless to have a discussion on this law in the way we put it on the agenda, Article 1 is the one that tells the content of the problem that needs to be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u385	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. We are therefore still discussing Article 1 and the amendment to this Article, which proposes that the article be deleted. We continue the debate. The next reported debater is colleague Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u386	Thank you, Vice President. Now, if we play this game forward, as if nothing had happened, then I would like to say that for the first time I was a witness in my third term, that the National Assembly had not done something that I should have done. And of course, when the National Assembly does not vote on the referendum call, it must and then everyone acts as if nothing has happened, I cannot participate in such a game. First of all, I would like to say about Article 1, which is directly linked to the decree, that today there has been a major unwise move in this house. How do you react next? I'm sure it'll have to be fixed. In the coming days, the National Assembly will have to adopt a decree, there is no other way. That's the first one. Secondly, I simply do not wish to give legitimacy to your decisions, and I cannot cooperate further as if nothing had happened to myself. A simple majority of the National Assembly does not support a decision to make and looks you in the eye and say that it will not support the decision. So, dear fellows and colleagues, I'm disappointed in this, the way was wrong. Every move that's happened today has been worse than the last one, and now we're where we are. The Slovenian People's Party's Group here, unfortunately, can no longer help you forward. We will leave this session with a heavy heart, we will leave the meeting, and we suggest that you simply stop at home and think together about what to do tomorrow. Today’s decision was wrong, it is not an honor for us, and in this way the State Assembly cannot continue to work. We'll leave the meeting and I suggest you stop it. Otherwise, you just act like nothing happened. And it happened: standards, called the constitutional state, are being trampled. You made a mistake, fellows.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u387	Anyone else would like to discuss Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1? Comrade Leo Kremjar. Until the president announced that the parliamentary group was leaving [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I think that the president or the leader of the Group of Members has expressed a position for the entire Group of Members. Then I'll change the order of the debate. My friend Kangler has the floor, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u388	President, what's this replacement for?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u389	He was logged in, but... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u390	But the group leader predicted obstruction, can't be, can't be, can't be, can't be, can't be. It is or it isn't. And I wanted the leader of the delegation to hear how I felt about his obstruction before he left.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u391	In the event of obstruction, it is directed to the entire parliamentary group because it is not individual and then leaves the hall. This is the practice of obstruction so far. And there is also no more debate between the Members of that Group. But my colleague Kangler's reaction was like that, so I was just trying to lighten up a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u392	I don't like to argue with the presidents in this House at all, but in this case, I have to object because I have a magnetogram. [[...]] [[Announcing Member Kangler from the background.]] You see, it's, like, violence against parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u393	Comrade Kangler, the president held the meeting until the moment I took over, and it was written: "Scholch, Podobnik, Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u394	Okay. I can see it doesn't make sense, so I give up my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u395	I'm sorry, but we've cleared up this dilemma. Comrade Leo Kremjar, you have the floor. Don't you? Excuse me, but does anyone else want a word about Article 1 and the amendment? [[...]] [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u396	We will therefore now decide on the amendment to Article 1. This amendment proposes to delete the article. We vote on the proposal by the amendment of the two groups of Members to delete the article. We're voting. Is there an objection? [[No, no, ……]] Excuse me? You didn't raise your hands early enough. I always warn you, I must say this, that the time limit has been raised or that I have been warned that the deadline has been raised in time, and I have not noticed this when the vote is under way, I take this into account. 48 present, none in favour, 47 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 47.]] We're moving on to Article 2. This also proposes to delete the article. We decide on the amendment proposal to delete Article 2. We're voting. 48 present, none in favour, 48 against. [[No one's for it.]] [[Against 48.]] You'll understand that I don't want to hold a meeting without the secretary general. I'm asking her to come here. If I understand correctly, we're going to move on to Article 4. Article 4 has been supplemented to delete. We're voting. 49 present, none in favour, 48 against. [[No one's for it.]] [[Against 48.]] The supplement is not accepted. To Article 14, the two members propose to the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party that the text of this Article be deleted. We're voting. 50 present, no one in, 48 against. [[No one's for it.]] [[Against 48.]] This supplement has not been accepted. The amendment to Article 19c shall be submitted by the Slovenian National Party Member Group. This suggests that the article should be amended to read: "No compensation shall be paid to persons under this law." That's paragraph 19.c. We're voting. 48 in attendance, 2 in and 44 in. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 44.]] A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u397	You missed me, I wanted to discuss this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u398	Yeah, I missed you, didn't see your hand up. The decision was taken. What's the next one we have to decide about? Just a minute. We need to find out. It is possible that we will be able to determine which one is invested in this last one, for we have two ahead of us. Both refer to compensation liability. Even the amendment to chapter 4, chapter 4b, must be decided. Comrade Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u399	You usually, if a mistake has been made, annulled the vote. I do not expect this, given what has happened before, but I would like to say because of the later complications that this law will make, that the amendment to Article 19c does not regulate what I see to be problematic, but allows for the possibility of saying that this is one of those solutions that, I will say, interferes with this or goes beyond what I can read from the Constitutional Court's decision. On the one hand, even this chapter, if we believe in the Minister and the Government, is a chapter that is not necessary to deal with the issue of illegal deletion. This is the chapter that speaks of compensation for damage that can be caused, but not necessarily because of the status of permanent residence. In the manner stated in the law, however, it is fair to say that the dispute is at least a second indent, which says that it has not taken advantage of all legal options under the then applicable laws not to read any further, and of course even more so, I will say, unusual, but within this populist discussion the final indent is understandable that the intangible damage in money is not recognised. If we have a problem with the first provision I have discussed, the question is whether it is possible for all who have experienced this deletion to be expected, for example, from those who have been deprived of their documents and repealed, to enforce certain requirements under other laws. This requirement is mildly unrealistic, if not cynical, to these. However, there is certainly a great question, and here again the Minister is fortunate that he does not need to be made clear because, as the president of the assembly said, the train has already driven away whether it is possible to limit non-profit damage to only one group of beneficiaries. I believe that this is not possible, but not only for a specific group of beneficiaries, but also for all those caused by the State, to be able to limit the damage caused by the State. It is possible that we have already found ourselves in the situation that the state has committed such a number of mistakes, not only in this area, but also in various interventions into the freedom of companies, that this is already difficult to make. But anyway, a provision that is so written and not sufficiently explained opens up the possibility of some conflict. At this point, it's completely unnecessary. This is, I will say, one of those elements that convinces me of two other articles, which unfortunately have not been amended and it is impossible to explain that we know that because of this populist discussion we have incorporated such a solution into the law that makes the law vulnerable before the Constitutional Court, so it is also difficult to support it. From this point of view, I will say, the flaw in this law is similar to that of other manoeuvres, which has led 20 minutes back to this situation, which will require a lot of lawyers and debates to experience its breakup. I regret that you are suddenly in such a hurry, given that the discussions were unlimited and that it was not possible to talk about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-02-02-SDZ3-Izredna-39.ana.u400	I didn't see you and nobody warned me either. We will now come to a decision on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the amendment to Title 4.b of the chapter. Title 4.b of Chapter is amended as follows: Indemnity liability. We vote on this amendment. 49 present, none in favour and 47 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 47.]] That's how we concluded the second treatment. I inform you that an initiative has been put into the National Assembly to electorate and electorate the signatures, requesting a call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992 registered the permanent residence of EPA 1016/III in the Republic of Slovenia. If an initiative is given, Article 17 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, if an initiative is given to apply for the invitation to tender for the previous referendum, the National Assembly may not initiate the third draft law before the expiry of the period referred to in the preceding paragraph, so I propose that we conclude the meeting at this point. I will immediately instruct the Legal and Legislative Service to give an opinion on this initiative and ask the Ministry of the Interior to examine, I think, some 4,000 signatures collected to determine whether the conditions for the invitation to tender for such a referendum are met. I'm going to finish my second reading of this law. Before the transition to the third, we must meet the conditions and thus meet the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you. I am just informing you that a proposal has also been tabled to supplement the constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the group of Members, the first-signed colleague of France Cukjat. Thank you.
