ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u1	We'll start the session. Before we begin, I would like to inform colleagues and colleagues that, in addition to the announced agenda items you have received today, we are also deciding on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. And in the case of mandate-holder matters on the proposal for a decree establishing a Ddbor of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for European Union Affairs. I think we can be satisfied that we have been able to reach an agreement between the parliamentary groups on this issue and that we will be able to do so today, I think we will support it. Finally, we will go to the 14th point where we will not discuss the third reading of the system law on deleted ones, but only the decision of the Committee on Internal Policy. All right, let's do it in a row. First it's 17 here. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complements of the Higher Education Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. With us is the Minister with co-workers and I also give the floor to the Minister to further explain the bill. Minister, you have 10 minutes at your disposal and a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education, with which we want to establish a legal framework in Slovenia for the introduction of the Bologna type of study in our country as well. For starters, because I know that there are still some questions about what the Bologna process is, let me draw attention to how it came about and what it brings. In various areas, Europe is comparing itself and trying to harmonise its systems. One such system, which seeks to achieve greater coherence, is also a system of higher education. In this system, transparency and comparability are to be increased and, through this, the transition of students and students who are trying to achieve the highest possible level of education during their studies. In order to strengthen higher education in Europe and to make it transitional, this would also enable the actual transition and mobility of the workforce in this area. This is also the fundamental objective of the Bologna process. Europe is therefore connected in this area, as well as in the field of research. The Bologna Declaration, which was adopted in 1999, after Germany in particular decided to adopt in the core a system closer to the existing English, aims to adopt a system of easily identifiable and comparable diplomas. Everywhere in Europe, this is how we will have a new first stage, which is a degree. Compared to current education, it is the equivalent of three years of vocational education and the equivalent of four years of university education. Let me explain here, because I know that there are also misunderstandings here that the first Bologna rate has nothing to do with the first stage in Yugoslavia, which was introduced in 1960 and has been known since 1969 since then, there has been talk of higher education and higher education. Finally, our 1993 law has eliminated the dilemma, and since then three years of education and four years of education in tertiary education in this country have been higher education. This higher education is based on a new first-degree education in Bologna. The second level of education is at the European level of Masters. From an existing master's degree, it differs from allowing new entry into master's degree to those who have graduated from a three-year high school. We did not know this moment, and with the additional two years, the name Master/Master for a particular area is acquired. Of course, if you have completed a four-year education, then with a year of extra work, with 60 additional credits you will also get to the title of Master or Master. This is closer to the English system, where they have already known one-year additional education to obtain this title than to the German and our previous system. This will actually take a little less time to obtain these addresses. And once we get them, they'll be replaceable throughout Europe. This is followed by a third stage. The third degree is the doctorate. For all these levels they are obtained through lectures, exams, seminars and similar loans. Each year, the simplest thing is worth 60 credits. So three years of study, he gets 180 credits. Four-year study organised comparatively European, bringing 402 credits. To get a master's degree, you need 300 credits and another 180 credits for a doctorate. That's the system. The credit system is introduced to make these credits comparable and transferable at European level. The Bologna system also introduces the so-called Diploma Supplement. These credits with all these obligations are entered in the appendix to the diploma and are taken into the hands of the employer or the faculty, the university in Europe where you go to study and you would like to prove that you only have to carry out this set of obligations, that you and these have already done. This is how students and students can move and thus move through this system of course also professors and professors. At present, there are about 600 of us out there, already studying a lot of the system, including in Germany, even in Belgium, the Netherlands, I don't know where everything is, and they are getting an education. This is very important, and this also introduces this law in order to take further account of the quality of the education received. Everywhere in Europe, it is up to the countries to ensure the establishment of independent agencies that will take care of the quality. This quality will be monitored not only internally but also externally, precisely because these credits are to be transferred between countries and there is no clear confidence that without this quality assurance instrument this can be afforded. That is why we are also changing the law in the part where the programmes are accredited, and we are also changing it in the part where they are evaluated. In both these mechanisms we add two additional or strengthen two additional players in this game. Employers get on the job. The reason is very simple: our higher education should move closer to making more use of the knowledge we acquire throughout the system. And on the other hand, we're acquiring a student population. Students should play a greater role in deciding on these two sets of issues. So slightly simplified looks like this system we're introducing. However, when we discussed the question of rates, the issue of accreditation and evaluation, a very lively debate also developed on the issue of financing this education, this type of education. To avoid misunderstandings, one thing is certain: this system does not introduce tuition anywhere in this higher education where there has been no education. The truth is the other way around. The whole first stage is also free of charge after the new. Moreover, to those who have a new opportunity, but have not had it so far, after a three-year study, to go on to study for a master's degree in the system of two additional years, we pay the fourth year that we have not paid so far. And at the same time, after last night's agreement with students, we decided that for a third, at least a third of all students and students, we would provide public finances for a fifth year of study. The Master's degree, which is certainly the fifth year, has not been publicly funded so far, this year has not been publicly financed as something that is going to happen. We co-financed postgraduate studies, now we will fund a third of students and students. Our idea is that in a longer period we will be able to reach funding for the whole population for the fifth year, but there are currently no funds; we will need to act rationally. With the student population, we have reached an agreement that we will have more detailed discussions on this and, as soon as possible, find a way to finance the fifth year; I say that we cannot do this right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Here's the chairman of the committee. Does my colleague Moze want a further presentation of the report? Chairman of the committee, colleague Moge, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This law has been dealt with by the Committee following an urgent procedure and therefore no one has proposed that the law be inappropriate. The Committee immediately went to law by treating it in accordance with articles and amendments tabled. At the same time, it must be said that the debate here is likely to take place as it took place on the committee, because the articles which are open were also, as I have seen now, amended. We talked mainly about Article 2 on the committee, where we had the amendments tabled. This article of this Law speaks of language. According to the original 1993 bill, the learning language of Slovenia, as well as now, was the following exceptions under the old law. These were foreign language study programmes, they were fully implemented, and study programmes were fully implemented if these programmes were also carried out in the Slovenian language at the higher education institute. These were two examples of the entire programme, while only one part of the study programmes could be carried out in a foreign language if they were carried out by visiting higher education teachers from abroad. The law makes it new that one part can also be implemented if more students have been enrolled. At the hearing, the Rectors of all three universities emphasized that universities should also be opened to foreign students and that the solution to the law is the one best suited to universities. For this reason, the Committee therefore held the opinion that they had not adopted any amendments to this Article and that the law on amendment is closed in this Article. Then it must be said that we have taken special action in the 30th and 31st articles talking about the world for evaluation, this is a new proposal in the law. As an independent and European comparable body, this evaluation board will carry out accreditation and evaluation procedures for study programmes. The proposed analysis will make it easier for the higher education agency to exercise the right of students to have their diploma comparable in a global and not just European case. It should be said that some members have also pointed out the comments of the legislative and legal service, but we have seen at the time of consideration that the law is written in such a way that it is not contrary to the existing system law. The Minister also explained that the proposed establishment of an independent public education agency follows the provisions of the Berlin Communication and will be linked to a European network of such agencies. Its main task will be to ensure quality as an upgrade to the system of evaluation itself. That is why we have also rejected all articles or proposals to delete these articles. The most perverse is, of course, Article 36. This Article speaks of financing. You are very well aware of how things have been done. Students took part in the committee. At the proposal of members of the coalition, we also adopted an amendment which, in addition to providing funding for four years of the higher education curriculum, provides one third of students with paid fifth-year tuition. This included the following three criteria: the student’s social situation; the regional representation in a balanced manner; and the priority or deficit study areas. When the Committee adopted this, it essentially extended the resources necessary for the implementation of this law. In the end, of course, we talked a lot about how, by recognizing the education obtained under the previous law, education obtained under this law, which we are processing today. The Committee has adopted such an amendment that the education obtained following the previous study programmes for the acquisition of a high professional and study programmes for the acquisition of an education corresponds to the first-degree study programmes, the second-degree master's degree, the third-degree doctorate. However, we added that because university education was more difficult than after a high level of professional education, there was a line that said that those who studied under the university programme had recognised study obligations in the second stage in the form of 60 credit points, or if you had listened to the minister before, it meant that you should still do a doctorate. This thing, that some doctorates would give me a master's degree with the law, of course she didn't get the board's support. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members, colleague Vojko Celigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. A warm greeting to all present. Every major political change entails movement in other areas of social life, even higher education is not insensitive. Over the past two decades, we have had the opportunity to test many different solutions in education that have not always proved to be the most appropriate, since they were not able to move in time. Slovenia began to amend legislation very late according to the Bologna Reform Guidelines, so there is not much time left to adapt all elements implied by reform in such a complex area as higher education. With the adoption of today's bill of review, we hope to finally regulate the area of higher education in the long term. The demands and expectations of the European Union, of which we are part ourselves, tend to create a single higher education space on the old continent. This interest is undoubtedly based on the Bologna Declaration, which in its essence allows for the realization of all four fundamental freedoms and, above all, the free movement of people and services. Greater learning mobility will enable knowledge and experience, for the first time in history, that Slovenian students will be able to acquire knowledge smoothly anywhere in Europe. Those staying at home will receive similar gains, as mobility is also provided for bilaterally. Knowledge as the greatest good in today’s society preserves equality. In the DeSUS Group, we are therefore firmly convinced that education must remain as public goods to which all those who want it have access. This is the only way to enable today’s and future generations, regardless of the social situation and the circumstances they cannot influence themselves, to be realized in their lives. We therefore support the possibility of quality, accessible and European comparable higher education. Only such a system will be a guarantee for confident young people who will be able to contribute to a more confident Slovenia and Europe. However, the path towards this goal leads through free public higher education. It is clearly in the country's interest to regulate this satisfactorily, but we are aware that it is sometimes also dependent on the capacity of public finances. We have welcomed the news that the work of socially disadvantaged students will be subsidised by the second stage of education, the so-called postgraduate studies. Slovenia does not have many resources on which it can build its own development. Knowledge is certainly among the most important, so it would be irresponsible to exclude less wealthy citizens from the higher education process. In the case of Slovenia, it is also not the wisest to leave education to the market, in particular not without appropriate social policies. We estimate that the quality of the study depends only on financial inputs, but also on motivation and healthy self-criticism. In this regard, we welcome the solution that provides for the establishment of a commission to monitor and guarantee the quality of higher education. This, in our view, will not compromise the autonomy of the university, but will promote professional flexibility. Of course, the innovation will overwhelm a wide range of institutions, which so far had a monopoly, but will promote the competitiveness of knowledge, a value that is so highly valued in the modern world. Older people are looking forward to the development of the reform of higher education. At this point, we must point out that we support it, although we are somewhat held back in shortening the study. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we consider the proposal of a law acceptable and, under the broader circumstances, necessary, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u7	Thank you very much. My colleague, Dr Miha Brejc, will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, followed by colleague Majda Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the Bologna Process and the reform of higher education. In doing so, we hope that there will also be an appropriate overhaul in primary and secondary education. The urgency of the government is incomprehensible to us. She was five years old in order to prepare things the way they should, and to allow for a normal procedure, so in five minutes we need to say the position of the Group of Members. For such an important reform we take five minutes, it is really completely unrealistic, but it is not serious that it continues. The university, if it is to bring the programmes into the process, has to prepare the programmes by the end of this month, says within ten days, it has to change the curricula, which means that they will only be reassigned to three years, but it will not be a real reform, but it will only be a formal bureaucratic transformation. So these programmes will be adopted under the same procedure as before, a very complex, long-term one, which means once again that the government has not taken the Bologna process seriously. The Bologna process in its idea is significantly different than the current bureaucratic change in study programmes! This renovation will bring nothing, which is already shown at the university, when some colleges say, "We're not going to do this because it's not a serious matter." I also think it is very clear that this amendment to the law on higher education reduces the autonomy of the university. Instead of going backwards and increasing the autonomy of the university, we're reducing it. I wouldn't count because I don't have time for this, but let's say prescribing a doctoral exam. Yeah, what's this about the legislator? I guess we professors who deal with it, who know who's capable of it or not, are going to decide on it at the university. Will you now, if I may say so, Parliament? These are the rest of the past. I remember the law on the joint work that prescribed the constituents of the statute. The same logic now appears here. We are establishing a public higher education agency, thinking that this will increase the quality of higher education. However, whether these transactions, which the public agency is supposed to carry out, are carried out by a public authority or by a public agency, does not in any case affect the quality of higher education, this is quite clear. A new bureaucrat body cannot influence the quality of higher education by definition. Moreover, this is contrary to the reform of public administration, because we have said that we will not always set up new and new agencies, neither of us requires a new agency. Let's start with that within the Ministry of Education. If later it turns out that it would be good to do so, we can still do so. If we go to an organ now, we've re-established a body that's going to spend money and we could use it in education, not for administration. As far as funding is concerned, the government is not serious. The Bologna process is a new idea, not just scattering objects after three or plus two years, is a new idea, is a new concept and this concept must be fully financed. Surely, I firmly believe that not 100% of the population will go from grade one to stage two, but maybe only 70%. At this point, it's hard to say how much, but I'm sure the second level will be less numerical than the first, and so it'll be cheaper. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that we expect the government to implement the National Higher Education Programme and to provide such funds as is necessary. If the government had taken seriously Slovenia's priorities for working in the European Union's world in 2004, which spoke of the need to increase funding for higher education, of course this debate would not have been. Finally, the government has not made any changes, we regret the system of admission to the university, where the system of points still prevails, not ability. Such a policy has already led to the outflow of many capable candidates to foreign universities, and we are in particular left with good candidates. So, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will explain in more detail the amendments in the debate, how we will then vote in the end, depending on which amendments will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The colleague Majda Potrat will present the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats and has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers! The adoption of today's law on higher education is of paramount importance for the United List of Social Democrats. For if, until recently, economic capital and property have provided an individual and a nation with a firm place in the world and the prospect of further prosperity, this is social capital today. The basic component of social capital, however, is the knowledge and competence of the company for continuing learning. I have read this from part of the United List of Social Democrats' programme paper. And let me point out that we see as a strategic orientation of a specific point, accessibility to knowledge for all, raising the general educational level, achieving the highest level of knowledge, increasing the transition of the education system, increasing investment in education, science and technology, strengthening the autonomy of the university and encouraging its involvement in the course of global science, and allowing conditions for postgraduate studies for more students than those fundamental strategic orientations that we believe can be found in the proposed law. The United List of Social Democrats will therefore support the proposed law. It supported, although it is proposed by emergency procedure, when it comes to such very important changes and when we usually say that changes in education must be gradual, because education is by definition a fairly traditional activity. But why did we decide to uphold the law? Simply because we have been able to verify our concerns with the bill's proponents in the process of drafting the law. Because we are convinced of the date by which the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to report its readiness to the Bologna process. And last but not least because they have informed from individual universities that their willingness to introduce new structural changes in higher education is so strong that all relevant procedures can be uninterrupted. Therefore, we believe that it is also possible to say legally that all interested parties have been involved in the preparation of the law for the study process. The main objectives and challenges of the Bologna Declaration have also been achieved. These are to create a Europe of knowledge and strengthen its intellectual, cultural, social, scientific and technological dimensions. And speaking of which, I rely on the report on Slovenia's readiness for the Bologna Process 2000 to 2003. And in the summary of this report on the implementation of the principles of the Bologna Declaration in the Republic of Slovenia, it can be read that it will be possible to accept an easily identifiable and comparable grade study, although only division in the pre-graduate and postgraduate studies has been introduced so far. In doing so, I would like to point out that promoting the greater involvement of students in postgraduate studies is one of the key objectives. And if it is clear from the data so far that 8 to 9% of students are enrolled in this master's degree, then we promise that this percentage will be significantly higher in the new system. Some predict 25%, some even higher. And since we have received from the drafters of the law in the United List of Social Democrats that the rights of students and the rights of institutions regarding financing will not be reduced, we will support the proposed law. At the same time, of course, they also supported the amendment already tabled by the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by colleague Ana Marija Tisovic. She will be given the word of her colleague Janez Podobnik. First, a colleague of Ana Marija Tisovic, Nova Slovenija. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The university study was thoroughly renovated in our country after the implementation of the law on higher education. The aim of this law was to establish a European comparable higher education system in which international standards can be applied. Since 1996, when the National Higher Education Programme was launched and with subsequent corrections and additions, the Higher Education Act has provided for the introduction of a credit system for quality assurance and other financing. The current amendments and amendments to the law would not be necessary for the implementation of the Bologna Declaration. This will also enable us to enter Slovenia into the process of establishing a European school space. In order to pursue the objectives of the Bologna Process, national quality assurance systems need to be put in place by 2005, adopt a two-stage study system and implement identifiable and comparable levels. These are fundamental changes that are necessary if we are to pursue the objectives of the Bologna Declaration in the reform of higher education, of which the Republic of Slovenia is also a signatory. Acquisition and transfer of knowledge into everyday life is of strategic importance for each country. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is very important how we implement the Bologna process in our country. As the consequences of this reform of higher education have not yet been anticipated anywhere in Europe - this is a long process - it seems inappropriate for us in the New Slovenia Group to see this amendment of the law coming on the parliamentary bench just before the present. Indeed, certain faculties have already begun to prepare study programmes; the deadline for setting the first targets is 2005. Now, by emergency procedure, without general discussion, we are enacting a law. Because there are many problems that are already emerging today, and they will certainly appear unexpectedly throughout the process of transformation. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we do not support the adoption of this novel as a matter of urgency. For there is much well - set up in our higher education system now, so we must not ignore it or even disrupt it. We need to upgrade and adapt higher education to new knowledge and needs, with a great deal of sensitivity. Our universities should have at least equal opportunities in the labour market, if not even better. How much better? So that our graduates will be recognized by their knowledge, knowledge and work. Our students are also supposed to be happy at other universities in exchange for students. Our experts would also be happy in the labour market. All of this can be achieved through a well-directed transformation of higher education in our country. Particular attention must be paid to the quality of studies. Our goal must be to get our universities to the highest possible place on the university quality scale. There's no way we can satisfy ourselves with more than 300 cities, our goal must be under 100. Our universities have been substantially better prepared to change the signing of the Bologna Declaration than we can imagine. When we look at the Bologna Declaration, it says that in order to achieve its objectives, it is necessary to take into account existing national systems, the systems we already have are true. The Bologna Declaration also states that in addition to a diploma, there is a need for an annex showing what kind of study is being achieved, what is being offered on the labour market. The second recommendation of the Bologna Declaration is to introduce a two-stage study, which is called undergraduate and postgraduate studies. Undergraduate studies should cover at least three years, with a minimum focus. That is to say, if we now have a four-year programme, there is absolutely no need to shorten it. This will be clearly written in the appendix to the diploma, which is why it is so important. We believe that graduates with four years of undergraduate studies will have more opportunities on the labour market than those with three years of age. One more thing has been overlooked by the proposaler of the declaration, or [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[.....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The second stage leads to the Master's and/or the Doctorate. [[...]] This novel of the law takes into account the word "in" and not "but". However, in our parliamentary group, we believe that it would be much better to take into account the word "or" and that the undergraduate studies for the Master's degree and doctorate would be carried out in parallel. Of course, it's time for a doctorate longer than for a master's degree. And this new law requires first a master's degree, then a doctorate. This prolongs the studies, but this is not necessarily because the Bologna Declaration does not require this.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u13	My colleague, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u14	I'll take my time, the rest of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u15	The time for the presentation is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u16	the system does not need to be put into this by the legislator. [[...]] Universities have their autonomy and we can trust them that if they want to give their quality to students they will do so. Let them pursue the goals of the Bologna Declaration on their own. So once again, let me stress, let's not demolish higher education at the part where it's good, but upgrade it.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u17	A colleague of Anna Maria Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u18	I wonder why such a strong administration needs to be expanded by setting up an agency. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u19	A colleague of Anna Maria Tisovic's, let someone say you don't have a woman's last word. Look, you're a minute and a half past time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u20	Just two more sentences. Transitional provisions are also unclear because a number of questions are being raised, which is likely to be revealed when amendments are adopted. So, let me finish. The New Slovenia parliamentary group of marriage novels, as the proposalr put on the table, cannot be accepted in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Tisovic. You've been through the time limit set out in the Rules of Procedure for two minutes. Look, there will be more than four hours to discuss, but the Rules of Procedure limit these introductory presentations to present the views of the groups of Members, and here the rules are clear. Comrade John Sponik now has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you, President. When I leave in five minutes, please warn me. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us one of the most important laws in this mandate. Regrettably, the situation has been caused by the emergency procedure; it would have been better if the procedure had been different. Knowledge is a national asset co-formed by an individual and a society, and we want to combine it with all responsibility in the SLS. After entering the European Union, Slovenia must adopt strategic guidelines for the transformation into a dynamic and knowledge-based society that is the basis for economic growth. In the Slovenian People's Party we advocate a reform based on the Bologna Declaration and contribute to better quality and European comparability of studies. It is necessary to ensure that as many students as possible complete their studies at European comparable institutions. Internationalisation of higher education must become an integral part of all levels of academic education. The integration of Slovenia into the global scientific sphere also requires more mobility of Slovenian researchers and interdisciplinary education and an approach to solving contemporary scientific issues based on the cooperation of experts from different departments, universities and countries. We advocate a balanced concern for international comparability and accessibility of studies with concern for the development of the Slovenian language. The law requires a clear definition of the content and characteristics of study programmes at individual levels. It is necessary to define the composition of programmes and their quantitative and qualitative relationships that determine the transition between degrees, in particular the relationship between higher education programmes and university programmes, UNI and USA. We believe that there is a need for a clearer definition of the substantive characteristics of the study programmes at individual levels. We further believe that the gaps between the study programme under the binary system are too many university and higher education professionals among themselves. In addition, the model compares acquired higher education and university education and, as a result, constitutes a deterioration in the position of graduates compared to Europeans. However, in some European countries, Italy, Austria, Germany, university studies are also recognised as second-degree studies. The university education obtained under the current study programmes corresponds to the second-degree education obtained under the proposal of the law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also stress that access to education and training systems of all rights must be accessible to all, regardless of their social situation or place of residence. Social and economically weaker layers must also be included in the higher education process. This is in our view absolutely in the interest of the future development of Slovenia. That is why we have also proposed a substantive amendment to the law, which says that the fifth year is financed by students who regularly and successfully complete four years of study programmes. In our view, in this way the financing of the fifth year of the study would motivate students to become more involved in the study. This would also result in ensuring that more students would complete their studies. This is also important for raising the quality of society as a whole and lays the basis for economic development. This is based on high technologies and innovation. To conclude, in the Slovenian People's Party, we want Slovenia to be a society of knowledge and free economic initiatives, so we believe that it is necessary to introduce a dimension and content in the reform of higher education programmes that will educate and educate job creators. It is therefore necessary to assign a special role to this particular knowledge. These content is not taken up in the proposed amendments. Therefore, they need to be introduced in order to follow the Lisbon Declaration, which speaks of Europe becoming the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based society. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would like to support the law, and our decision will also be linked to the adoption of some of the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u23	Thank you very much, colleague Janez Podobnik. Mr Germič will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team! Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act means the implementation of the principles of the Bologna Declaration, the key objective of which is to create a Europe of knowledge and to create a common European Higher Education Area, while at the same time continuing the changes in the field of higher education in the last ten years. That's why we're going to support him at the LDS. It has already passed a law on higher education at the end of 1993, which established the autonomy of universities and other higher education institutions related to research and teaching activities, the possibility of establishing public and private higher education institutions. Instead of previous higher education and higher education programmes, two types of higher education programmes were introduced and higher vocational education was organised outside universities. The reform continued with the 1999 amendment, which introduced a more democratic regime of academic authorities and the funding provisions were also renewed. Taking a professional high school diploma into account has also contributed to the expansion of access to higher education. The first instruments for building a common European higher education space have been set up in this novel. An article on quality assurance was added, an annex to the diploma was introduced, a document showing both the system in which the diploma was obtained and the academic achievements and competences of the diplomat in the course of employment and follow-up. An important article in the development of higher education was drawn up by the adoption of the National Higher Education Programme in 2002. With him, we have set ourselves high goals that will have to be achieved if we are to form a knowledge-based society. The signing of the Bologna Declaration has continued and accelerated the process of modern development guidelines in higher education and in the European Higher Education Area. Cooperation between higher education systems across Europe is expected to be strengthened, but not to achieve a unified and homogeneous pan-European higher education system, but to create transparency and mutual trust in the face of diversity. The Bologna process thus means the creation of a European higher education space that takes advantage of the diversity of higher education systems; strengthens student, teacher and other mobility; introduces mechanisms to facilitate mobility [[during the course of these diploma annexes]] , the European Credit Transfer System; it establishes effective mechanisms to ensure the quality of higher education studies and accreditation, similar to a three-stage study structure, three-year or four-year "bachelor" and one- and two-year "master" and three-year doctoral studies; it establishes lifelong education and so on. At the same time, the law allows for the renovation and modernisation of higher education studies in a way that is comparable to other higher education systems and arrangements, and introduces a higher education agency which, as an independent and European comparable body, will establish accreditation and evaluation procedures for study programmes. The establishment of the Agency will remove certain doubts about independence in the management of quality-related procedures. Quality assurance is the red thread of the Bologna process. The law further underlines the concern of higher education institutions for the development of Slovenian, since Slovenian language is still prescribed for higher education institutions in the public service, while the opening of higher education institutions in the wider European area makes it possible to implement parts of the study programme if more foreign students are enrolled in the foreign language. The proposed law provides a legal framework for the implementation of the new Bologna structure of the study. In doing so, it should be stressed that the level of student rights is not decreasing. As now and in accordance with the National Higher Education Programme, funding is maintained for a postgraduate study which ensures the possibility of obtaining a job for all students. At the level of the postgraduate study co-financed so far, direct access to the Master's degree will also be made possible for graduates of higher education. All those who decide on the system of study three plus two will study the first year of master's degree free of charge. We will also support the supplement, which will provide at least a third of the socially weak students with a fifth year of study free of charge. In order to ensure international comparability and competitiveness in the international labour market, it is extremely important to translate the existing text into a new system. In order to ensure an equivalent translation of the new system and to ensure that this does not result in an evaluation of the education of graduates and masters under the current system, while avoiding an unjustified, legally achieved educational raise, it is envisaged that a credit recognition in the previous system will be translated. The adoption of today's law represents one of the important milestones for the development of higher education in Slovenia. It brings great news and provides the basis for Slovenia's integration into the common high school space and represents one of the builders of knowledge based on the company His successful implementation will ensure the achievement of Slovenia's development goals in various fields. In order for Slovenia to contribute to the common objective of the European Union, it will be necessary to ensure its visibility with employers in order to achieve the Lisbon strategy, since this will only ensure reciprocity and recognition of competences in the international labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Kolega Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, and then, colleague Levič, no, colleague of Vnučec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives and representatives of the government! We have entered Europe, we have pleaded for Bologna and other declarations, treaties, regulations, and I do not know what else. In today's content of the review of the law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education, we have all made it clear that it is controversial and unacceptable, particularly unacceptable for the Slovenian National Party 51st Article. It is unacceptable to equalise acquired education by different and unequal undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. We can prove that this means, in the national and international context, the evaluation of the student programmes so far.A practical example, the institution in the European Union will call for jobs required under this proposal for a second stage. A German with a university education or a master's degree will be able to apply, a Slovenian with a university education will not be able to apply. If the European institution calls for a scientific title as a job, Germany will be able to apply with a Master's degree and a doctorate and Slovenian only with a doctorate. Is that equality, ladies and gentlemen of the United List and the Liberal Democracy? Is the equality of students to be manipulated by them equivalent to that of someone who has studied and studied a master's degree at their own expense in order to obtain a scientific title and to come to a scientific title, equality, when this bill brings this back to the professional title, is that equality? Okay. As always, yours. Before four plus two, now three plus two, one year was given to the state by all those who are and who are still studying. Here, that's equality for you. When we reviewed this in the Slovenian National Party, we were, indeed, I will say, it would take 15 or 20 minutes to say all the anger and all the anger. Tell me, please, gentlemen experts, we have, we have now passed a law on civil servants. Tell me what a professional will do now, and he'll have a master's degree because we have in the words of various laws written that the highest title is the highest professional with a university degree. What will he do now, say, a master who falls from a scientific title to a professional title? That's equality for you. Sure. Sure. And why? We know that there is a private or semi-private university for postgraduate state and European studies in this country. Would you like to bring in this way so that, of course, this could come easily? To an equation that has nothing to do with anything. There's no connection. It's not fair to all those who have studied so far. To all those who are currently studying to study master's degree in order to obtain a scientific title. And when they're done in one year, they'll fall back on their professional title. Just because you made it up like that. And yes, no, that's true. [[...]] Dear Mr Auschwitz, you will be able to speak later in the debate about the fact that it is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u27	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u28	That's right. I'll tell you again. One more time. If you don't believe it, take a look. It's not like that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u29	There is no controversy in the presentation of the views of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I have not disputed, Mr President. [[...]] [[...]] I'm sorry. It's the others. Look at you, not the other way around. I respect all universities and all colleges. Just a letter or an opinion sent by the Faculty of Philosophy. Look at him. And hope you say that the Faculty of Philosophy with its comments on this bill has no idea. That's what you're saying. That's not true. The Faculty of Philosophy sent you the dean's signature. So you're saying the Dean of Philosophy has no idea. Okay. Then keep thinking like that. The Slovenian national party has very rationally tabled and tabled an amendment to Article 51. I think he's honest and honest and he's comparing Slovenians with everyone else in Europe. If we wanted to go there and we're there. If you support it, we will also support this law in the Slovenian National Party. If not, we will strongly and absolutely oppose him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u31	The last of the parliamentary groups to present their position is the Youth Party's Group. The position will be presented by my colleague Vnučec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Young Slovenia Party, we are aware that it will be the only way for young people to develop a decent future and quality of life, education or knowledge. We therefore support the creation of a European higher education space in the Party of Youth of Slovenia and the resulting main objectives. In the last ten years, the number of students has doubled. However, the spatial and human resources capacities of universities remain the same. In chemistry school, they shut down labs because they're not suitable and safe to use. In the Faculty of Philosophy because of lack of space, they cannot normally carry out the teaching process. 90% of the equipment used by colleges is almost cancelled. Students of certain colleges are already forced to pay contributions to laboratory exercises and the implementation of practical instruction. This is a sad fact and the state of our higher education. The Minister of Education claims that the state has paid only four years of pre-graduate studies so far, but that is not true. The country also covered periods for the preparation of diplomas and the process of graduation, repetition of students, students were free of charge during the so-called break, and more and more funds were also allocated to co-financing various postgraduate studies. In addition, there is confusion about what postgraduate studies are. Whether a master's degree is the same as the old master's after the new one, or he'll be a magician. Let's say he's still the same master after the adoption of this law? It must be made clear that these are not equivalent programmes and that the new proposal for a Master's degree is only a second stage study of the Bologna process and that any comparison with the previous postgraduate master's degree study is merely a deceiving with the sole purpose of justifying the introduction of tuition. We are aware that the lack of funding facing colleges is great and that there will be a need for a gradual participation of students in the future. However, for any reform, including a higher education study, it is necessary to provide certain funds in advance, otherwise the reform cannot be implemented in a qualitative manner. It is therefore necessary to implement a reform of the higher education study on a rapid and all financial burden to shift to students, an unacceptable action. When the state raises the resources to improve the quality of the study by 15% when the state regulates the scholarship policy and the lending policy of students, when there will be enough student beds for all students, when the participation of students in the decision-making process in colleges will be increased, only then will we be ready to talk about the participation of students, not tuition, but to start in the form of a repeat examination. It is therefore important to note in particular that the system of three plus two will bring about a reduction in study years, now an average student will take little less than seven years to complete the university course, so that students will also graduate or graduate from the university and, of course, in the final stage create the country's income, pay taxes and subsidies. The key impact of the proposed reform should therefore be to increase the quality of studies or to increase the knowledge of graduates at all stages of studies. In view of the far-reaching consequences of the reform of higher education, it is entirely inappropriate for us to adopt such a law as a matter of urgency. Therefore, in the Young Slovenia Party, we will continue to strive to ensure that quality of accessible education is an insurmountable right for all, and especially for generations to come. Therefore, the clear "no" possibility of introducing tuition at the second postgraduate level allowed by the proposal for a new law on higher education. We support the view that the country, without any leakage, covers ten semesters of studies and also establishes other instruments that will enable effective access to education and use, a clear perspective after completion of education, an appropriate study policy, housing opportunities for students studying outside the home country and other measures that will enable knowledge to become a priority for future development. For the end, I'd like to read you another quote. I quote: "We have already warned you about the neglect of higher education in Slovenia and the far-reaching consequences that this will have. In this we have also shown that the University of Ljubljana, because it is the largest, is the most under attack. Ten years ago, Slovenia adopted standards and standards for the implementation of higher education activities that reflected the current situation. After ten years, the situation deteriorated dramatically. The state finances less than 80% of what it should according to norms and standards. The university has only 69% of the building surfaces that should have the same standards, with even greater funding for investment maintenance and material costs. The situation is catastrophic, and comparisons with OECD countries are also very clear. The share of GDP for higher education is 1.16 in Slovenia and 1.7 on average in OECD countries. Budget investments in higher education represent only 2.3% of total funding, in the OECD 13%. Investment maintenance is negligible, material costs amount to less than 10% of all assets, in the OECD 33%. All of this has a significant impact on the possibility of offering European comparable quality studies, while the situation is so acute that further deterioration of the material situation of the University in Ljubljana would trigger serious resistance, 4,000 regular employees and 58,000 students. The University of Ljubljana therefore rightly demands that normal funding be provided first. This will only be possible through the consistent implementation of the national higher education programme, which provides 1.4% of GDP for higher education.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u33	Mind your time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u34	The National Higher Education Programme has been adopted unanimously by honourable Members and Members. This is a quote from the open letter from the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Professor Mencinger and the President of the Management Board of the University of Ljubljana, Professor Dusan Mumorr of March 2002. During this time, the state of higher education in Slovenia has not changed significantly. The only change was that the Chairman of the Management Board had become the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u35	These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, to a debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We will lead the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments on 21.05. to which I would point out that the amendment of the LDS, United Letters and DeSUS has been amended and you have received it today on the map to Article 36, and that there is no amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 36, which you have also received on the bench. This will lead to a debate following the review of the amendments, plus the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, in the review of the amendments of Article 36 we will take into account the amended amendment. Thus, I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 30. The amendment proposes that Article 30 of the proposal be deleted. This amendment is linked to Article 31 as well as to the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I must warn you that we will, of course, vote on the amendments. That is the procedure, and I call on my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall, because we will move on to the decision-making process. Before deciding on the explanation of vote, Comrade Master Janez Drobnič, you have the floor to explain your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment because there is no reason necessary, nor does it require a blogging declaration or other documents of the European Union that would oblige us to set up an agency. This can also be done within existing national authorities. However, if there is a need for differentiation and the establishment of an agency in time, it will be established. This will increase the cost. With all these legal entities it is so that they need, of course, a management staff, an administrative cadre of accounting and more. Therefore, such funds can be earmarked for something more beneficial. I will support the amendment, but I do not support the establishment of an agency and a government proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u37	Voice explanation, Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I personally agree that someone must do this work, as defined in Article 31, with Appendix 51.a, what this public agency should do. This job has to be done. However, I do not agree that it is necessary to establish a public agency. I'd like to say that this job can't be new. This work, which has been defined, is said to be the tasks that are defined, and so far some of them have had to be carried out. And if they're not, there was a hole in our system. That's probably what we all agree on. I personally believe that these tasks can be carried out within the Ministry of Education. Only if that's the deal and if that's the will. I am also personally convinced that the Ministry of Education is capable of doing this and that it also has staff. If we set up this agency, I'm sure it would be some kind of mistrust to the Ministry as such. I'm not talking about any person in particular, because that would be pointless. But I am talking about the institution of the Ministry, and on the other hand this means that something is contrary to what we talked about two days ago, why some similar institutions are included in ministries. It made it clear that there would be greater rationalisation. I warned there that I would like that voice and that word to be seen and heard in particular in this law that we are about to adopt today. Once again, of course, I support this amendment because I am convinced that the Ministry of Education is only capable of doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u39	Voice explanation, Rudolf Moge. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I myself will oppose the two amendments, which was clear from what we have been doing on the committee, as this proposed establishment of an independent public education agency follows the provisions of the Berlin Communication we have signed. It will connect to a European network of such agencies, unless we want to have it. Its main task, however, will be to ensure quality as an upgrade to the self-evaluation system. As we have this agency, it will also make it easier to realize the right of students to have their diploma comparable in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain themselves to the vote again, we're going to go to the vote. Before that, allow me a note. The amendments to Articles 30 and 31 are linked and are therefore discussed and voted together. We're done here. If the amendment to Article 30 is not adopted, the amendment to Article 31 will be irrelevant. Please review your voting devices because we are moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 18 votes in favour, 27 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 30 is not accepted. This has made the amendment to Article 31 irrelevant. We turn to the debate on Article 36 and the amendments to this Article [[We've got them in the review.]] . The first remained the same, the second was changed and the third was the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. But they're mutually exclusive. I'm opening a debate. Marko Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Let me start with an international comparison of the size of public funding for higher education per student, in euros [[data from Eurostat for 2000]] . Finland 7,879 euros, Belgium 9,897, Denmark 11,922 euros, Sweden 13,651, Slovakia 4,720 euros, Austria 100.003 euros, Germany 10,183 euros, Ireland 10,402 euros, Norway 12,239 euros, Hungary 5,069, Slovenia in 2000 2,452 euros per student. In the Youth Party, we propose to support the view that the country is covering ten semesters of study without any leakage. The process of upgrading our higher education system in line with the definitions of the Bologna Declaration must be of a higher quality of our education and must not be a step backwards by limiting access to education through the gradual introduction of tuition, which is allowed by legislation if the dictatorship does not change in accordance with our proposal. In SMS, we are aware that it is the only way for young people to develop a decent future and a quality of life, education or knowledge. That is why we support the establishment of a European higher education space and the resulting main objectives in the SMS. In addition, Slovenia is working on its economic programmes to ensure that our society is highly technologically developed. We want more added value in our work and more innovation. All this can be achieved only with an educated society. The starting point of the Youth Slovenia Party is that Slovenia must be a knowledge-based society. This knowledge must be qualitative, substantive and formally comparable in an international scale. Above all, it must be accessible to all who wish to acquire it. We strongly oppose the possibility that in the future the possibility of access to knowledge would be linked to the thickness of the wallet of parents, old parents or possibly students themselves. Knowledge must remain a public good and it is in the national interest to prepare future generations for a successful stay and action within the European Union. That is why we must arm future generations with knowledge. Let me point out once again, in the debate on Slovenia's involvement in the relationship, I personally mentioned the connection between NATO and education funds. We are aware that the financial situation is what it is, and more means for hawbice means less money for education. And that's beyond doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u43	Igor Štemberger has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. If I understand correctly, this article is intended for tuition, even though we are skillfully avoiding that word in law. These fees are to be introduced for the so-called second stage of the study. This is totally unacceptable to me. They would probably have been proposed by the proposer for the first stage, which is already referred to as pre-graduate studies if, of course, the national post-2005 higher education programme did not prevent him from doing so. What is puzzling in higher education, and there seems to be no desire for change, is an extraordinary study. In the last decade, enrolment in higher education studies in the Republic of Slovenia has increased dramatically. In addition to the increased enrolment in regular studies, the interest of students also increased dramatically for exceptional studies, which was initially intended for students at work, and today it seems to be becoming one profitable business of Slovenian universities, since for the study year on average students pay 400 000 per year. Extraordinary students are supposed to attend a lecture this afternoon because of other obligations, and at weekends, that is not the case. Mostly there are lectures with regular students. Extraordinary students, who are by the way a third, at the same time use the same lecturers, the same spaces as regular ones, only that, unlike them, they contribute 400 thousand a year to college cash registers. In the 1990s, the number of extraordinarys from year to year increased until some three years ago we reached the upper limit of one third, some over 30% of them today. A third of the students, outstanding, in the undergraduate course is that upper limit. And there's not much to be marketed here anymore, so we're going to do some other stuff now, because there's not much we can do in graduate school anymore, but now we're going to pick up a little bit with future masters and a little bit with future doctors. So we're going to introduce postgraduate tuition for so-called second or third grade after the new one. Of course, the students resisted. All right, if we're going to introduce tuition at the second level and beyond, then let's get the first stage to fully introduce free studies, both for regular and for extraordinary. We'll see who jumps into the luft. Probably not students, according to my professors or colleges, those colleges, such as legal, economics, are said to be those who, at the expense of an extraordinary study, serve a greasy "money" to call it that. And that doesn't seem fair to me. I have to say, we introduced tuition a long time ago. In our higher education, with an extraordinary study through the back door, we practically introduced scholarships. Not through the back door, we brought them in through the main entrance. And here we're just going to go on with it, according to the undergraduate studies we're going on. I oppose this and, of course, here I will support the amendments that will follow what I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u45	Thank you. I invite John Sponik to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to agree with my colleague Štemberger that we have secretly introduced tuition through the extraordinary study instrument. That's a fact. Unfortunately, today, with this change in the law of this system error, we cannot correct it. Today we have a decision before us, which is still important for the future of young generations. This is said to be the question of how many years of this new public education model will the state finance. We in the Slovenian People's Party have listened to the arguments of a possible compromise solution. Colleagues from government parties today have brought some additional compromise, which is very complicated, the way to it. I will personally support the amendment under point 1. I'm afraid he won't be accepted. However, we are proposing a solution which, in our view, could be a healthy compromise and be good for the country and also correct to students. I'd motivate them to finish their studies early. We propose that the fifth year be funded to students, but to those who regularly and successfully complete four years of study programmes. That would kill two flies at a time. I am convinced that this amendment, which would also have a long-term positive effect on the motivation of students to be more successful in the study, is to finish the studies earlier. This is one of the main findings that we now have a model in place so that it simply does not motivate students and encourages them to complete their studies on time and as soon as possible. So we are proposing our amendment, if you accept it, then in the third reading we can find a solution that is related to this particular success. Here we would go to the solution, as suggested by colleagues from government parties, this will likely then be the responsibility of the department to prepare criteria for what this certain success means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u47	Thank you very much. To my word, I invite the victory of the noble Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the Slovenian National Party and I speak for it, we will support this amendment. After all, only why would the state not pay for one year of study and on the other we are opening new public agencies where certain people will sunbathe and crack after political preferences after the last part of the back. I think we can't afford something like this, and it's high time to give students at least what the current government is lying about still is, and it's a free study. I think it is a complete misunderstanding of the bologna declaration by the bill-maker, or perhaps even that the Slovenians should be put on as low as possible to be as stupid as possible to serve the European Union and certain interests of certain political parties. I'm afraid it's probably what the proposer wants to do. It is high time to focus on having good experts in Slovenia. We had good experts. If I take just one case. The Institute of Joseph Stefan has done the most in the field of flora chemistry in the world. What are they doing today? Damn it. It can't be compared to those socialist times. Today, when we have capitalism, and when science and education are to flourish, it all rests. Instead of watering a tree of science with fertilizers, we bring them along a range to make that tree die. It's fucking sad. If we can accept or if most people here accept and give the thirst to new public agencies, which we know they usually work, translate paper from cup to cup, it is much more important to ensure that students have another extra year of study for free. I think whoever's smart will support this amendment. I think this amendment is absolutely necessary to support it. Unless you want to succeed what some want the Slovenians to be a nation of servants, girls and illiterates again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u49	Roman Jakič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u50	Vice President, thank you for your word. Look, in all these years, and I want, of course, to reject the argument that little has been done in the school area and in the education structure, in all these years, since LDS is run by the Ministry of Education and Sport, the most invested in knowledge. Data and statistics show that the number of students is increasing and that the future of children, adolescents, is high. Of course, everyone would want a bigger number, everyone would want more, everyone would want models in which the study would be free from the start to the end. It's also called a doctoral study. We know some cases like this. But there's a different situation in the world. When it comes to the introduction of second-degree tuition, we are forgetting the fact that the second stage or master's degree has not been funded by the State. The ministry and, of course, policy ensure that the first stage is, it is now said, undergraduate studies, free of charge. Just like he used to be. With regard to postgraduate studies, however, some subsidies are already available or are already heading towards allowing as many young people or students as possible to continue their studies at a second stage. Therefore, I will personally oppose the SMS group itself, as regards the state financing of four or five years of study or ten semesters. However, I will of course support and I am pleased that there has been a compromise proposal before us today. In fact, in all the discussions that we had with the student organisation, it was feared that when the law on higher education was amended, we would forget about the so-called social adjusters. To forget about young people who, due to social pressures, cannot continue their studies. And that was the main and main reason why students started their request - of course they have the legitimate right to demand free study. But they also have to realize in some way that there is some solidarity within the education system that it is. Students nevertheless have a subsidised student diet and the right to a free or very highly subsidised hot meal. I'm proud that we did it back in 1992 and then we confirmed it with the law last year. I'm glad they have a subsidized transport, and I'm glad they have free undergraduate studies. Of course, it is their right to require postgraduate studies free of charge. But if it is possible to do so, it is necessary to do so; but if it is not possible to do so, then it is necessary to ask what else is permissible within the limits of capacity by not least the state budget. And in this context, I think it is right - and it is very important to commend those who have coordinated both with the student organisation and within the coalition to come up with a compromise proposal saying, "Despite the provisions of the previous paragraph, in the state budget for at least a third of the students," the emphasis is, for at least a third of the students, "provide the means for carrying out the study in the fifth year. This takes into account the social situation of students, priority or deficit study areas and the equal representation of students across statistical regions." I am pleased that these elements are also taken into account, which no one has talked about in the beginning. And I particularly like that the social situation of students is taken into account. To reward students, as Mr. Podobnik says, in a way that rewards only those who study regularly, I find this perspective incorrect, because it is the socially threatened students who sometimes study longer, because they have to provide funds in a different way and their studies are open to them. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to accept the amendment to Article 36 tabled by the LDS, the United List and DeSUS. And with this, I think we will also somehow go in the direction that the students wanted on all the working bodies and in all the debates. They have demanded more, and it is right that they have demanded more, but it is possible to pass what is written here today, it is said, to co-finance or finance the fifth year for at least a third of students, which will take into account certain criteria that will provide studies mainly to socially disadvantaged students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u51	Thank you. My word to Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. As already mentioned, in fact, undergraduate education in our system is no longer free, even though it is free. Even in this regular schooling, in fact, through the side door they quietly introduce tuition, of course through the 'numerus clause', which has also become a way of social distinction. That is why, of course, we support the Group of Members, myself personally, the amendment, so that this free will be introduced as necessary. Free choice of profession is probably the key purpose of this company to ensure this. It is not, however, that free choice of profession is limited by economic options. This has become an increasingly current practice and social distinction, that is the fact, it is increasing in Slovenia. This would, of course, further increase the distribution, as regards the possibilities of obtaining the most demanding jobs and the possibility of obtaining the most demanding educational levels, as well as the knowledge that is likely a key thing for Slovenians to enforce in the European space. Look, on the one hand, there are these things, on the other hand, the lack of funds, the technological development of the university, as well as the institutes. A year ago, the interview was beautifully recorded how the University of Ljubljana was fed and how funds were being cut down on this particular area of technological development, technological equipment and more, from two billion to 800 million. This is a fact that has been shown to the Slovenian public and, of course, they are going in a different direction. If we limit student enrolment in a way that is now through the silent introduction of tuition, then fewer young people will have access to education due to talent and an increasing proportion of those who will be available to these places due to economic power. I would not like to support such development of social policy, demographic policy, economic policy and school policy. That's why I'm going to support this amendment under number one. Of course, the government is trying to mitigate some serious incision that the government has proposed through an underthinking proposal. Now he's pulling himself out in some way. Although it does mean improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u53	Joseph Jerovšek has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Respectable. The proposal to introduce second-graduate schooling according to the Bologna Declaration, compliance with the Bologna Declaration, significantly reduces the accessibility of young people, students to adequate education, to the equivalent education we have received from those we have studied under the university programme so far. He's been to a serious college for five years. We need to be clear about this. The study programmes have been geared towards five years of study, although sometimes they have been combined within four years and I do not think that even after the new stage this second level will significantly exceed the study programmes that have now been in the university study. And here the current government is narrowing down opportunities for the young generation. Introduce the system that only those from higher levels may have access to these study programmes from wealthy families which are in some way privileged, which are in the sphere of power or capital elites, to power elites. This is the continuation of this process, which was essentially introduced by this external graduation as a criterion for admission to university. This is the original sin that was committed in our country, thus introducing tuition through the back door, as many parts of the population of students have been diverted unwittingly to an extraordinary study. The doors were closed, instead of allowing the university to choose and set criteria and select students. The National Corps has already been affected by this. This law, and this solution further undermines the future intellectual potential and the research development potential of the Slovenian people. The researchers will not be able to get through this way with the most talent, but those who will be privileged will come. And we know who the privileged are in this society. You have developed this system of privilege at all levels and access is already closed. I agree and join those who say they are already on a lot of scholarships into our system with this extraordinary study, with the richness of some schools and some professors. So far, the government has done nothing to open up access to higher education, to study, but closes it every year. Now through the transition you have achieved this, that the capital has come into exactly the right hands, now you want to introduce the fees that those privileged from this transition period will be able to pay, which have seized property, capital and all. For those, everything will be possible, for others who come from lower layers, from more distant parts of Slovenia, but from peripheral parts of Slovenia, this door will be completely closed or almost completely closed. This stems from the philosophy of the current government, which has completely lost its social sense, which has also lost its sense and sense of what harm it is doing to the national body in the area of future research potentials. Technical colleges have so far lost the quality of students through this high-level enrolment system. Professors at these universities agree that few students will be able to develop new products on their own after graduation. Instead of being the goal of Slovenian education, we actually devalued fully Slovenian education, higher education and university education. Look, I must say that this amendment of these three parliamentary groups is also totally unacceptable. You say that in the National Assembly for at least a third of students there will be funding, of course you will allow some propaganda sample of students to receive tuition, but you will close with new criteria. You will increase the enrollment criteria, as with your graduation you have prevented free entry into university, now you will invent new criteria, and for a third of that handful that will still be able to enter, but of course you will introduce some propaganda and free studies. That's unacceptable. This also introduces corruption in buying criteria for second-degree entry. These of your criteria, which you have calculated here, can indicate that corruption will be involved if this is introduced. It will be selected according to completely different criteria, unfortunately this is always happening and it is unacceptable. This is a sad picture of the current government, where it has led to the fact that what has been made possible for many years is accessible to students, which has been made possible for some generations, now shrinks dramatically and prevents future generations from actually accessing education. In fact, the new authorities and the new capital owners want cheap labour, they don't actually count on the most promising people anymore. That is why, of course, I will support this amendment to Article 1 and I am also against the amendments tabled by the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u55	Minister Slavko Gaber has the floor for interim explanations. I'm sorry, there were Majda Potrate and Ljubo Germič in front of him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. I would like to discuss the second amendment to Article 36, which you have received on the bench, which amends the original text as it is in the review of the amendments. Let me begin by saying that in the National Assembly I am constantly prepared to make decisions between yes and no and that I rarely resort to a quorum. However, I cannot agree to a simplified presentation of our views on the issue of tuition, as we have seen in the media, to share with those who are for tuition and those who are against tuition, if we support solutions such as those in the proposed law and are further supplemented by the proposed amendments. Why is he going? I understand students that they want to link the Bologna Process and the different structure of the study with the greater participation of the country in the study, especially because I think that programme changes may not be sufficiently followed by changes in some of the social criteria and circumstances that are urgently needed for successful studies. However, I must say that the application for free undergraduate studies by the party to which I belong has also been demonstrated when we adopted the National Higher Education Programme, when we included this provision on free undergraduate studies. And since students did not feel secure enough that only verbal promises are enough to ensure that at least this extent of justice will be guaranteed in the future, we supported their efforts to ensure that such rights are now enshrined in Article 36 of the Act under consideration, as it is possible to read that funding is provided for the implementation of at least four years of other study programmes. It is this dictatorship that allows for an extension of at least four to the fifth year of the study. However, since the resources in the state budget have already been set, since after reviewing the possibility of financing the fifth year for all students and students known as unfulfilled wish or expectation at the moment, I support the amendment, which nevertheless allows at least those students to be at least a third of those emerging from the worst social conditions to have a free study in the fifth year of the second stage of the study. And since the revised amendment also sets out in more detail the criteria for taking account of the deficit study areas and the equal representation of students in statistical regions, it seems to me that the more detailed development of the criteria is, however, ensured that the matter will not be up to date and that it will not be able to be attributed to opacity or any other serious purpose, as some debaters have heard. Of course, at the time of the adoption of the new National Higher Education Programme, I think a new call can be reached in the National Assembly to ensure that the National Assembly, with special concern for the growing integration of students, also reaches the second stage of the study and provides greater financial resources to cover these expectations. Finally, I would just like to add that it is quite misleading to say that the scope of the rights for students in the postgraduate course is decreasing, while the possibility of re-entry into the year is also provided at the end of the year. And there is something else to talk about when we know that the academic success between our students and students is not exactly one of the highest in Europe and that some of the Slovenian universities are also willing to advocate the introduction of tuition precisely because the individual's participation in education would be a commitment or a forecast to reduce the time of study needed to achieve a qualification diploma. This will also be a first-degree diploma following the new bologna process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to give everyone the opportunity to discuss, so if I have not seen anyone, I do apologize. I'll give everyone a hint that I've noticed it and classified it as a debater. So now I may not have the exact order. I have registered: Ljubo Germič, Jožet Tanka and Francet Tsukjati. Alisha, who wants a word? Mr. Petan and Mrs. Tisovic. Comrade Tuck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. The law under consideration, or an amendment, clearly states that funding for the study activity will be provided from the state budget but for four years; the financing of the fifth year is not provided by the state budget. What does that mean? The minister says that doesn't mean the introduction of tuition. And what will the university do? The university will introduce tuition. Of course, she won't work for free. Surely this is also the reason why we do not actually face any major protest by universities in this provision. Perhaps some at universities are looking forward to finding not only extraordinary studies but also regular studies, the fifth year, as a source of additional funding, where many things are happening. Given that Slovenia is small, we only have two universities [[ad from the background: "Three!"]] and that students who study for four years at one university are likely to be bound in one way or another to the fifth year at the same university, will not be competitive, and will be raised in the sky. This may be a problem for someone, but I don't think Slovenia is, gentlemen, no! It is true that entry into the European Union is also a cost for the country. And everywhere we go, we recognize this extra cost. In the state administration in particular, there is no problem in raising budgetary resources in ministries due to additional tasks, additional costs required by the entry into the European Union. There's no money here in education. There is no money to finance the required fifth-year compulsory university study second-degree funding from the budget. This is the relationship, this is, I'd say, a nice-sounding relationship, how much we care about knowledge, education, for actually the capital of our future development. But I am really sure that there is no better investment than an investment in knowledge. It was said how much we have done in the field of education during this decade of LDS rule. The number of students has increased. Yes, ma'am. But in the time of Mary Teresa, there was only philosophy, medicine and law and on average we had just as much education in Slovenia as, say, the whole of Austro-Hungarians, on average, on average, on the number of inhabitants. Today, of course, we are far below European averages. In the national programme, we have written down what we will achieve, what percentage of highly educated people we will reach within a certain time frame in order to catch up with Europe. To the day before yesterday, the institute of Joseph Stephen organized a round table or a large lecture hall for young researchers, and the classroom was practically filled. Thus, the Germans came and opened up for our young researchers to move to Germany for a time. It was an offer or conversation under the title "Get started", which was held by the Institute of Josef Štefan, the Slovenian Science Foundation and metals, which is a European NGO, the Office of German Research Organizations. Here are, of course, Maxplanks, Institute of the DFG Institute, called the German Research Foundation, Humboldt Foundation, Helmholze Foundation or Association. It was a very good offer. The Institute's director, Joseph Stefan Vito Turk, himself, said he was afraid of brain drain. This is a programme which, of course, the German research foundations are opening up for Eastern Europe, where it is not a gift to Eastern Europe, of course, but it is a short while to gather experts. And the vice president of this German foundation, D.F.G. Helmut Schwarz, himself, said that only the best students are at stake. Europe is here, but what does that mean? This means that Europe will offer from the east not only a completed expert the possibility, a great opportunity, but also an opportunity for the best students. And after four years, it turns out whether he's a great student or not. And if the fifth year is charged with high school tuition, there will be offers for these students. But what about Slovenia? It follows that we will sell or lose the best students and import expensive technology for high money, which these Slovenian students themselves will produce abroad. It is certainly a very poor approach to introducing tuition in the fifth year. This is one of the main amendments, which, of course, we support, to short-termly provide budgetary resources for all the years of compulsory second degree study, that is to say for all five years. Back then, where we are increasingly losing the principle that compulsory education or education is free of charge, from an eight-year-old, a nine-year-old, a high school and a university, we are losing this principle, we are moving away from it year-to-year, the study is becoming more expensive than the first grade of primary school forward. And of course, given that the percentage of people living in poverty is increasing, this is a very bad policy, a very bad approach to the future. The amendment to allow a third of students to do so is said to be socially endangered, a substitute for tuition, is an insurmountable approach and we believe that the only acceptable amendment is the SMS. If this amendment is not adopted, it would probably be better if we rejected the whole law.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u59	Before I give the floor to Ljub Germić, the announcement that we will order a 30-minute lunch break around 13:00, because today we are voting ahead of the debate on an individual amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. When I was involved in the education system at various levels for many years, I have always monitored what is happening in the field of government legislation and measures in this area, and I have always followed the idea that the decision-makers, both government and the National Assembly, have in mind the concept of developing an entire vertical education, which I think from non-formal education immediately after birth, entry into kindergarten, then education, completion of formal education and then further education, I would say, lifelong education. As I monitored the decisions of this government, which the school ministry also led today's minister and the decisions of this Parliament, much attention has always been given to knowledge. It certainly includes the adoption of three laws, the so-called School Tolar, which certainly introduced into the entire vertical of the educational system at the time of the adoption of the legislation in 1993 at the beginning of higher education, and the main legislation in 1996, many changes and many quality novelties that Slovenia could have made available from the material that we will be considering at one of the future meetings when we talk about adult education. One of the main messages of the National Higher Education Programme is that we want to improve in the overall education structure. Here I would just like to give you some data that we have increased the number of people with secondary education from 1991 to 2002, from 652 000 to 899 000, representing 43 to 54, and from 65 to 131 000 higher education, representing 4.3% to 7.9%. Here I would like to illustrate how education measures and policies have worked. In view of the fact that there has been a strong lack of education, it would be possible to take a good look at the situation of Slovenia in relation to the educational structure of the population with at least secondary education in the countries. If we compare the US here with 88% in the first place, Slovenia is somewhere in the 10th place with 76%. So much for what is, of course, due to comprehensive consideration of the development of education, research and science in Slovenia in the last 10 years. It should be noted here that much has been done on the quality system. I do not understand the education process so that a good student is formed at some high school, in college, but it is necessary to think about it in a very early period. Here were investments both in early learning of foreign language, with computer knowledge, by subsidising student diet and transport, etc. A number of measures have been introduced which resulted in the rise of the overall educational structure of the population. Therefore, I find it very unfair to speak in this direction, given that this Parliament has clearly defined itself in the National Higher Education Programme, that it will not introduce undergraduate tuition, it seems very unfair to me that here we are now represented by speakers that someone is introducing tuition and someone is against it. Here, of course, it should be made clear once again that the country or proposals also do not introduce tuition from this law and that funding for undergraduate studies is maintained. The amendment of the parliamentary club and the two parliamentary groups, of course, introduces, in co-financing the fifth year of education at the second stage, at least a third of co-financing of the study population and, of course, on the basis of criteria which I believe are correct in this amendment. Therefore, of course, my vote will go in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u61	Thank you. Joze Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that as important a law as we are dealing with today deserves a longer period of time, and also a different procedure, such as the one that is now under time constraints, under, I don't know, the last speed we bring through the legislative process. First of all, when I read this marriage, one gets the feeling that the second degree is standard. It is said that the second step is what should be one of the key criteria of this company as regards the level of education and also one of the key parameters of comparability with the others. The second step is also the one that brings the conditions for the most demanding jobs that this company has described either in the State Administration or elsewhere, or for other jobs, and very few jobs are required where higher professional conditions are required. Therefore, I find it extremely inappropriate that, in the framework of the proposal that is before us on the table, this second stage is divided into indemnities and on the part that pays. I think it is entirely inappropriate for this matter to work in this way, but it would be very reasonable that the first stage is so second, if we already have it, then it is done under the same conditions and financed under the same conditions. All that is proposed as an arrangement of this second stage in that last year is actually inappropriate, because this country is so eager to identify no social conditions, no social problems, but it can be obtained significantly more under the cover of creating different balance sheets and data than if you do not and there are no sanctions for these matters. Secondly, why I don't think that's appropriate is that in the state budget we also have an extremely large amount of money on the education programme itself, which I don't think is the most rational use. If we just look at the programs that are being funded, let's say different commissions and so on. These commissions have such a school system that they probably can't even count them, all the commissions are costing, and the problem is that there are one and the same people on several commissions; in short, under the cover of a large number of commissions, there are supposed to be professional and I don't even know what plurality, and in principle it is just a probe and the conditions for implementing certain reforms in this school system. In short, I think it would be possible to make substantial rationalisation in this area, to reduce the number of commissions, including the number of members in these commissions, and to get a certain amount of funding for education programmes. The second thing that I find extremely problematic, and it's also somehow a stranger to this system of ours, is a school for administrators. I think it's unacceptable that they're just principals who are high school graduates. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u63	Comrade Tanko, the amendment under consideration, do not talk about it [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u64	I'm talking about funding sources under the point we're discussing; there's nothing missing, I'm talking about sources. So this is much more important than what it is, say, a colleague of Germich when he spoke about some American matters; it has much less to do with this law. It is a school for principals, because I find it actually underestimating to these people, all of whom are in the order of high school graduates, who are university-educated, that special education courses are required for the system they will run. [[...]] The school programme has prescribed, funding sources provided at a rate of one hundred percent, and for this programme to be implemented and paid, special seminars are needed, for example, after Portorož and elsewhere, and so on - in order to meet the conditions of running a public institution called the school, which has everything exactly prescribed. That's, I'd say, incomprehensible. We do not, for example, have schools for directors of health homes, but we do not, for example, have schools for directors of small and medium-sized enterprises and so on, and we do not have them. But for the educational work that is far more defined than these matters, we have a particular issue that is wasting public funds. I don't think it's going to bring anything completely to the quality of education. I think that one such wasteful thing in this educational system is also getting points for the advancement of teachers. I think it's true that teachers are one of the few who have to attend certain seminars to get even a condition for advancement. Everyone else in the public administration just gets promoted by working age. [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr. Kavtičnik, well, since you're going to apply, don't interrupt the debate. I think we have an extremely large number of such matters in this system. In addition, I think the criteria you proposed to identify or stimulate, to co-finance that third of the students, even in their own way, are unfair. I am interested in what, in fact, there is a uniform regional representation in this co-financing criterion. This has nothing to do with the social situation of someone who is supposed to be visiting the last part of the second stage, absolutely no connection. This cannot be selective criteria and countervailing criteria for someone to receive support for the study. This has nothing to do with it! And by doing so, things are shifting to those and regions that don't need it at all. Also deficit, the fact is that the education system is standardised and prescribed. People sign up where they're allowed, where they have job opportunities, and so on. And deficits, if we can't solve them in another way, we can't solve them by paying or co-financing the fifth grade or the fifth year in the second degree. That's the wrong criteria for me. I think it is much better to allow all those who are willing to attend that fifth year free of charge. It can't stand that much, because everything else is much more expensive. Even the Commission or those who collect the data will spend, I don't know, a hundred million a year just to determine whether they meet the criteria or not, whether the application is appropriate or not. And so on. In short, we are able to put all this ballast on this educational system, and at the same time forget exactly what it is meant for. It's meant for young girls and boys who are supposed to get this level of education. We educate and finance all those programs that have no connection to the education system. I think that the amendment proposed by the Youth Party should be supported, and we have given it support, and I think that it is only normal for us to have equal conditions in the second stage of education for all years. Everything else is a deformation of this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u65	Thank you. Rudolf, there's no reason. That's not the reason for the replica. But you can report to the debate then. Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Well, I'll support this first amendment. The fact is, in this law, the content that will address generations that will continue to be 40 years old, at least 40 years, is actively stamped on our society - or any other, it does not matter if they go abroad. We often talk about investments for the future, what is the most perspective. I hope to say that investment in knowledge is the one that is certainly the most profitable and certainly the most important. It's true, there's a lot of desire. There's only as much money as there is. And financial options are always limited, there's always more desire, there's always more need than financial opportunities, that's what's true. Therefore, in the serious countries where they plan for a longer term, they are somehow identified as priorities. Everything and everything can't be a priority. For everyone and for every thing you can't spend money, but you need to define what we're going to give more money for, what's our priority, and what's going to be what's going to happen in a different way. It will be, but it's not the most important belief in the country. And investments in knowledge are certainly the most necessary investments, the most necessary, the most meaningful and certainly the most promising in the long term. And if there is, then knowledge requires planning and thinking in the long run. In the short term, it does not always bring the best and most meaningful solutions to put out a fire that does not harm. Mostly in terms of long term. It is important to be aware that foreign countries also grant and offer scholarships to foreign citizens, that the real younger generation, which is not native in that country, is said to be foreigners, and since Slovenia is in fact no longer closed, our students will also be able to run for these scholarships. This means that foreign countries are also giving money to foreigners, and in law we are restricting ourselves from even allowing our own citizens to obtain a second level of education. I'm going to use this term, not masters, because we have this expression that has a slightly different sound. Because this new Master's degree is different than the one we know now. The fact is, so far, we have fully funded the second stage of our studies, and we have been fully funded by the State. Well, if it wasn't a study that besides co-financing, it's another thing that students had to contribute for themselves, of course, but that's another thing. But it was essentially free, except in special cases of repetition and so on. The fact is that it is necessary, and I agree with this, that it is necessary to take a slightly selective approach to this financing of the fifth year as well. Everyone here would probably agree, but first we should put this in place. The fact is that this funding should be motivated in this quarter or only in the fifth year, and this would also bring more rationality. It should be linked to success, but without exception, from which region, in which type of study or social situation. Let me give you a comparison of what that means. According to rapid estimates, which we could also hear from the Ministry, this master's degree would cost about a million tolars. It doesn't matter if it's a little bit more or a little less, the fact is that it's supposed to be about a million. Now for that particular case. Before I give it to him, I would like to say that it has nothing to do with the ministry or the minister, so it would not be considered as if it were an attack on him. Just a comparison for respectable colleagues, which we sometimes decide on or do not make in comparison to what we are deciding today. If one of these master's studies costs about a million, then I can tell you that the SIB bank cost 3 billion, that's 3,000 master's degrees. And the second comparison, once again, has nothing to do with the minister, that there would be no objection to flying on it, not flying on it, but comparing respected colleagues and colleagues. The country did not collect 140 billion tolars because of the unfair tax administration. And if it's only half the real number, it's 50 billion, that means 50,000 masters. Some may say they're meaningless comparisons, but they're worth remembering. Comparative to do, that's what it means. Ladies and gentlemen, 50,000 masters - how many years is this? We're probably not gonna make it through this. For how many generations we would have master's degrees paid if the state were only able to collect the real part of taxes it's not collecting now, it doesn't want to collect them, it doesn't want to collect them, or I don't know what term it could use to do that. And today we're going to be "estimating" whether we're going to give a whole generation of fifth year studies also funding by the state, or whether we're going to give just one third or maybe not. And then we say it's a compromise! Yes, what a compromise it is if one third - who is now worth two thirds and who is one third. It's not a compromise, compromise is possibly 50-50. But it's just for comparison. I don't want to mess with anyone. In the beginning, I also thought that I was aware that there was no money for everything. I am aware of this, but priorities need to be decided, and I agree with those who say that investment in knowledge is of the highest quality in the long term and that it is most noble. However, when we decide on the various side effects that I have mentioned, we remember the difficulty in deciding whether to finance the fifth year of study or the things that we will discuss. I mentioned some of them, please remember such and similar comparisons. I think it would be better if we decided today to support financing for younger generations to study at home without going abroad and looking for exactly that kind of study in other countries and then staying there. Because those are the most promising and talented, we will import from some southern countries just those who will come. There's nothing bad about what I said when I said "south," just so we can understand each other. Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this amendment under number one.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u67	I've got two more discussers reported, and then he gets the word "minister." Ana Maria Tisovic as the first and then Aurelio Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to point out that I am against any subsidisation of university students. Any country that puts something on itself should have a strategy so oriented that it can draw the most out of its national intellectual potential. Now we go to this second amendment, which also reads among other things: "The third, fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs... The State budget also sets out funds for the implementation of the fifth year for students with a poor social situation." That's to say hello. That's what they say. The students in the lowest social class will be able to come and study. But our goal is to draw from all social layers the entire intellectual potential, both from the highest, medium and lowest. The highest doesn't have any problems - probably, but the middle one does. And this middle class, which is right next to the limits, and here, is the largest number of our citizens in recent years. We're gonna lose this. Besides not blowing up our scholarship policy at the same time, we don't look at what our credit system is about studying, not at the point, but at the credit, at the money that students could study with. It seems that the loan was so placed or so offered that I don't know what a huge demand for it is. We must watch this at the same time if we are to introduce a subsidy package somewhere. But I think it's just our mistake not to do it at the same time, because somehow we're putting people in an unequal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u69	The word is Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be very brief. See, moving words about investing in knowledge. I'm sure I agree with that and I've always done everything and I'll always do everything I can to invest more in knowledge. However, I will support the amendment proposed by the coalition parties, because it is the only real-based amendment under certain given circumstances, which are today, we have accepted and recorded and legislated. But I can also make a commitment that in the coming years, in the coming budgets, no matter who will rule at the time, when the budget will have to be set up so that we can guarantee 2% for defence, because we are members of NATO, that I will do everything possible to maintain expenditure in this area at the current level and that all the money that we are supposed to give to the defence will be given to knowledge and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u71	And Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! First of all, I'd say it's a huge change in the law that will have a lot of consequences. It is unacceptable - but we are already used to it in this National Assembly - that changes to such laws, without much discussion, are being pursued by an urgent procedure. At this point, I think it's all decided and determined. Otherwise, we will vote and then wait for the consequences of this change. Just like I'm thinking about it, we're going to be [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Please! Now we will get a way for students to study for the first three years, and if we come from the possibility of employment in the Republic of Slovenia, we find that more and more of those who have graduated from universities, the unemployed, now that they have completed their four-year college education, of course, later also with three years they will not, or even less, be able to. I imagine that most of these will then continue at this second stage and we will just get - the studies will increase from four to five years - I think most will continue studies. For what remains of a young man who has no work, other than to prolong. And this will somehow be the solution to our unemployment. So in this case, this proposal is even, I would say, a good thing that the government is somehow getting rid of this burden of rising unemployment. On the other hand, I must also conclude that social disparities are increasing in this country. That fewer and fewer people are able to pay daily burdens, which are prescribed and imposed by different laws and procedures. Now in this way, of course, we have also cut ourselves into the field of education, so whoever wants to enter from the first stage will have to consider whether they have sufficient resources to do so, and then wait for this compromise amendment, which, if I understand the Minister correctly, they have agreed with the student organisation last night to calculate whether or not there will be a third of the lucky ones or not in this third. I do not think that such a solution is good: one is the social criterion that we should resolve in this country through the scholarship system - and my colleague Tisovic is right to point out that this area should also be overturned - and the other, of course, is the education system, which I am sure must be the same for all; it must give everyone equal opportunities. After all, we have recently initiated constitutional changes also in some areas that should be enshrined in the Constitution, that the possibility of, I don't know, the right to a pension, equal opportunities in the area of candidateing, and so on - that these options are all the same. This law, however, enforces something that does not mean equal opportunities at all. So, on what principle, which is not broken down here, the government, which will only draw up a criterion that can also take into account the social situation, which can take into account the priority of deficit in the field of study, which can also take into account equality in statistical regions, and then we will probably introduce something similar to what we have today in the area of distribution or priority list in the purchase of apartments, some principle of voting raffle, which will then determine which students who will be able to enter this fifth year for free of charge. So, such solutions, ladies and gentlemen, and such a rush, such proposals are some -- I can say, Mr Minister, let it be a nice compromise, reckless, incomplete. Once again, one is the same starting point for all, and the other is to correct the social adjustment with other mechanisms, but those are the social criteria that are known, I don't know, through children's documents or, if you want, through scholarship policy and similar other mechanisms, but not to drive social criteria through how someone can write into the school system. The second thing is, if this amendment is to be, this compromise, which I do not know how and how it was adopted, if it is adopted, is nowhere in this law - except what we have been able to hear from the Minister in television or elsewhere - is nowhere to be determined how much it will financially mean. At this point, he doesn't really know how many students are going to enter the second level. So, how many users are there going to be a fourth and a fifth year? Nothing! We have just written an amendment to sort of calm the current situation and that this Parliament is concerned by such an urgent procedure and it is adopted in such a way quickly. I am certainly not in favour of such solutions, and therefore, of course, I support the Youth Amendment, which somehow equates all those who step into the school system, but the government, of course, is the one who, together with Parliament, is looking for the necessary financial resources to make this happen. That's what I want to say for sure. In fact, what some speakers have said is that today colleges and other countries open doors wide and invite students to their colleges, and if they are not at home, we will not give them the same opportunity, then it is certain that they will get away from us, so they will go to study where the conditions for study will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Jože Kavtičnik, and then I really finish. Now I'm going to give Jozet Kavticnik and then to the minister, and then we're going to continue, and I have to give my word to the government in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today, from our side, so from LDS, it was said, if anywhere, then the education system is regulated. We have a national programme to follow, we have sectoral legislation that is good and that works for education and lifelong education. That's why it bothers me here, because we're really experts, we know to exempt from the regulated system some flaw and build on it. This is either impossible or unacceptable, so I have to make it clear here that nothing new is introduced by this tuition or by this payment study and nothing is narrowed down. Look. The first step is by bologna to take into account what we have already had and we only upgrade, that of course we will subsidise no less than one third of the students, we say that if there are more resources, we will be able to pay tuition to a larger number of students. When it comes to the longer time of discussion. Look, here I have a statement, the education committee, was on May 11th - 64 pages is an extract from the magnetogram, we talked so much, and when we ran out of words, and when the arguments ran out, of course, we finished the committee. Well, that's the way it is. The Paris Communicate, we are signatories to this commune, commits the signatories to go into the Bologna process within two years. This must be taken into account if we want our students to be able to study as students study throughout Europe. If we don't do this to me and if we don't sign this, then our colleges won't be able to make a call. That is why, of course, I will absolutely support our amendment of the parliamentary group, or two parliamentary groups and the parliamentary club. We must be aware that knowledge is a good thing that belongs to every individual and for him must also be invested by an individual and by the family, not just by the state. However, the State should ensure that the conditions for a good study are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u75	Thank you. My colleague Maja Zupan. The Minister agrees that I will give you my word and then he will give you the answers to all the questions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. I find that the amendment of the law touches a very wide part of the population to try to introduce comparability, efficiency and quality, which is good. It is not good, however, that we accept amendments and additions to such an important law by means of an urgent procedure as has been a criticism before me. I would also like to touch on the funding we are talking about in relation to this amendment. I believe that the proposed solution is that the fifth year of study, which has not yet been publicly funded, would now be to finance only one third of students. According to the criteria already stated, according to the social situation, regional representation is even and according to the field of study. I don't think that's a good solution. I wonder for myself how and how we would identify these criteria, or how we would make things more bureaucratic and administratively complicated. I believe that, given that we want our society to be developed, that we want to catch up with developed countries and even that we want to be in the society of the countries of first speed, then I think that the country should provide financial resources for all students in the fifth year, because only in this way would it be equally possible to study for all students. And that's why I'm undermining the amendment that talks about this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you very much. And now I give my word to the Minister, Dr. Slavko Gabru. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. A lot of claims have been made here. You can understand my answers in part as a comment on these claims, as well as an illustration of some of the facts. In 1991/92 there were 30.744 regular students and students in Slovenia. Year 2003/2004 50,482. This makes the growth of regular students and students evident. During these years we had about 5,500 diplomas, last year we had about 12,000 diplomas. Additional funds were also provided for all of this. That's a fact. Or would we need these funds more than we had, but I understand that it is a rhetorical question. We'd need more, of course. In recent years we have dedicated 62 billion tolls to higher education in the Republic of Slovenia according to the Eurostat methodology in 2002, 69 billion and 543 million in 2003, an estimate of 76 billion tolars this year. Which means we're spending $6,776 for a student or a student this year. That's what the data says, which is internationally comparable. Whether Norway spends more than or not in dollars, it is probably not a question because the answer is to how much gross social product is there on the population and how clear it is for everyone. In these years, this increase in resources has also significantly improved the educational structure of people, together with higher education and higher education, 8.9 per cent in 1991, in 2002 13 per cent. And we've moved with about 130,000 people who have had more than a high school education in today's nearly 250,000 people. This has happened because people wanted to study, and thanks, ladies and gentlemen, to many of you because you have provided funds in this Parliament in all these years. We with this law emphasize tuition once again, we do not introduce. At the postgraduate level there is no tuition, the undergraduate level is the first level, according to Bologna, not according to the classification that was valid in the then Yugoslavia in 1960-1969. The first stage lasts either three or four years says Bologna very clearly. And this one's free. After a new opening, and we also finance this, fourth year and fifth year also for those who have completed three-year studies and around 44%, 45% of all of us are enrolled in three-year programmes today. We're paying everyone for the new year. All those who will sign in, of course. And with the supplement presented here and the content of the criteria, we had a special conversation with the student organisation last night, and their proposal is that the criteria are written this way, we agreed that for the social weakest, for a third of them according to the criteria that are written here, so for a third of the population, we think that this will cover the socially weaker, is provided free of charge in the fifth year. We also talked about ensuring the fifth year in full free, but it takes more serious thought, it also needs to think about where they will rationalise in the field of rights currently existing for regular students, and we also need to think about what is going on with the 20,000 students who are in the emergency study and who are paying for the first stage and who will also be paying for it in future themselves. I wonder for myself whether it would not be more fair to devote some of the resources to these people so that they could move on in their personal careers. There are many who enter studies from different parts of Slovenia in this way. There are a lot of regular students who lack nothing, their families and not them, and of course there is one part of those who really need the resources that we are trying to provide for this very vein of a third. Well, it's the other way around. We will also provide full funding for the Master's degree for the fifth year of this study and for the fourth year of those I have already talked about. That is why I, ladies and gentlemen, understand the desire to pay everyone, but the last time, I think, we discussed here a week ago whether or not we would have given students 10 billion tolls for food. Even then it was said that rationalization was possible. It is easy to talk about commissions, but whoever sums up the costs for commissions knows that these costs are not nearly enough to pay for what we are talking about here today. We should, then start talking about essential other issues. It is not possible to say everywhere that money can be found, that 10 billion does not fall from the sky, and we talk about about about a billion tolars in every 1,000 students. We now have 7,000 in postgraduate studies, we have twice as many as we had when we started co-financing this study. At this point, we only co-finance 60% of the funds, and we expect to get to 10 to 11 000 students and students in this area in due course, all of which need to be financially and co-ordinated. A meaningful and patient agreement, which we have also agreed with the student organisation, can lead us to find the funds eventually for the fifth year, but there are several other conditions that need to be met. If we complete them together, then Parliament will most likely be discussing in a different session next year that it would legislate this right if it knew how it would be achieved. This moment doesn't know, we don't know where to get the money and no one else, I'm afraid not. So for now, let's stay here, and I think that makes sense through the line of justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u79	Thank you, Minister. Can we also conclude a debate on these articles and amendments and move on to decision-making? We will therefore decide on Article 36 or the amendments to Article 36. First of all, I put to the vote the amendment of the Youth Party, under number one. If adopted, the amendment under number 2 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party will become irrelevant. I hope we understand. I'm putting the Youth Party amendments to the vote. Voice explanation, Comrade Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u80	I will not support this amendment because, as I have already said, I will support the amendment that we tabled together, the LDS Group, the United List and DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. May I have your attention, please? There are 59 of us present, 20 votes in favour of the amendment, 38 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. That is why I am putting the amended amendment of the three groups of Members to the decision-making process. That was the order. If adopted, the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party will be irrelevant. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. There are 57 of us present. 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This made the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party irrelevant. We are moving on to the debate on Article 47 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 47. I shall put the amendment to Article 47 to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 51. We have four amendments that are mutually exclusive, given that if adopted first, they will remain irrelevant. Anybody want a word? Comrade Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I myself have proposed one of the amendments and, given that I have already said some facts on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group in explanation, allow me to explain it. For the first time, the existing 51st article, according to the Slovenian National Party, in the first paragraph, equates, on the one hand, the education achieved on the one hand, through the study programmes for the acquisition of higher vocational education and university education, both of which define as equivalent the first stage after the so-called Bologna process. The proposal also provides for the equivalence of the university study programmes to date with the next first-stage study programme in Bologna. This means that in the labour market, graduates would be treated with the same rights as future graduates with a three-year study, which will be less burdensome and will achieve a lower education equivalent address, following previous study programmes, which they had to invest in their multi-labour studies. The proposal, which is written as an amendment with the content of the Slovenian National Party, is explained as follows: In this context, the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana warned that other countries, for example Germany, have introduced different and more appropriate equivalents. The university diploma to date in Germany corresponds to the second level achieved following the Bologna model, as shown in the guidelines adopted on 10 October 2003. Therefore, according to the principle of equal evaluation in the Slovenian National, Colleagues and Colleagues in the National Assembly, we propose that the university programmes so far, or those with a minimum of 300 points, be equalised or corresponding to the programmes of the second stage. At the same time, I call on colleagues and colleagues from the Members of the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party, who have identical amendments to decide and support ours, which we are assessing as having formed in the best substantive and formal direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u83	I'm sorry. Rudolf Petan has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So first of all, I would like to mention that no one claims that there is no money for education and that there is a lot of money. No one sees it, so reading statistics, I think it's a waste of time. Secondly, what I would like to say is that the biggest differences in this law are not going in the direction of organisation of the study forward, but in particular what will happen to what has happened so far. Indeed, in this process so far there has been and will be some time per tens of thousands of students, and perhaps just to support this, the statistics that we have heard from the Minister have not been too much, but it has been welcome. This means that we are talking about what has happened so far - over 100,000 students and also graduates. The problem arises in every reform because something new is being introduced and the old one cannot be rejected because it is human. And the problem arises mainly from the graduates of the current university, this is a four-year study; others, of course, are not so many problems. The new law foresees that university students would have a new recognition of the first level of education, in the same way as those who graduated from the three-year programme. But that's not even the worst problem after all. It should be borne in mind that Slovenia is no longer a closed system, that borders are falling and that Slovenia is located in the European space and that all those who become full-year-old are job seekers, I can say, in this single labour market in the European Union, and, of course, our market has also become open to those from the European Union. This is a fact and this is an important fact because it fundamentally changes conditions. What happens to us now is not only our business, but also what happens to others. Things must be compatible - I mean, we know this in particular, which we have had to harmonise and harmonise our legal order with the acquis of the European Union, in order to be roughly the same, equal, equivalent to the other countries and with the other citizens of the European Union. And that's where the problem comes in. After this bill, as I said, four-year university students have only a recognised first degree, and a new first level of education, according to the new, docs, for example, in our neighbouring countries, I will mention Austria and Italy, and the graduates of their comparable four-year study have a second degree. This is a significant difference from what we have. And I didn't happen to mention that we're no longer closed, that we're open and on the labour market. This means that these tens of thousands of university graduates will be in an unequal position with the graduates of neighbouring universities, say, in Celovac, in Graz, Trieste. Our citizens who have studied there may also be in a better position than ours. And let me say that when I advocate these amendments, which are essentially all of the same content, one of our Members' groups is also to give a concrete example that you will not be able to tell me that I am speaking only in mind. It could be any case, but I imagined, say, one of these. If one company in Slovenia, for example in foreign majority ownership, is more susceptible to the regulations of other countries, so I mentioned in the majority foreign ownership, for example, do a tender for graduates with a second degree completed, a new second level of education. The graduates of four-year studies from Italy, Austria, will be able to apply, but they will not be able to apply to graduate from the four-year equivalent study because they will only have a first degree. This means that we are directly in a subordinate position. I will not even mention the case of what this will mean if our graduates of a four-year university study apply to Brussels, where, for example, the required second degree after the new one will be required. Graduated education. For example, colleagues, students from Austria, Italy, will be able to use a four-year programme, not from Slovenia. We're gonna have to do that master's degree, one or two years. This means that we are in a deprived position in Slovenia. Now let's look at it another way. That's one problem. Another problem arises as to - I think that the peaceful souls can also move on to this side of the medal, given the reputation of our schools. Look, if our college has been teaching for four years and finally gives you a degree that is valid for the first grade, and at a similar long-term study in a college with neighbors, in Graz, for a four-year study you get the value of a second grade, then you can ask yourself what kind of college we have quality. That way someone who doesn't know the system can decide. At the same time, however, we can decide what we are now Slovenian students and students, who need to go to a university for four years and are able to consume only the first degree of education. At the same time, if one of us goes to the University of Graz or Trieste, he will get the quality of the second degree after four years. People can get people who don't know our system, a strange impression about our colleges and about people, Slovenians as students. I can assure you that no one in the SDS will convince us that we have such bad colleges that within four years they can only give first-degree knowledge. And no one is going to convince us that we are in Slovenia so, I don't know if I'm going to use any harsh terms, so turn it around so that in four years we can only consume the first degree. I know our schools are quality, that's what I hope to say. So it hurts me to see that, compared to others, we are so underestimated that the law will set us up so low. We may have no idea what commission, but I don't know what evaluation bodies and the like, which will control this learning system, which will also control quality, but if we go by law, with one letter, one sentence of this law, one step lower. I would also like to say that such definitions, that the four-year study so far is only the first stage, does not require Europe, we are ourselves determined to do so. And that's what this is all about! Why should we lower ourselves than others demand and expect us to? Let's get higher! Others can still value us less. That's what I'm trying to say. Why do we appreciate ourselves so little? I am sure, as well as in our Group of Members, that this is not good for us, that this is harmful. So, of course, the first amendment of these four who are here, and I think they're talking about the same content, I support. The first one we're going to support is because everyone's talking about similar problems. These problems are not small because they involve tens of thousands of graduates. However, as for the new programmes introduced by this law, we are probably not diversified. Well, such a study will be after this Bologna Declaration, three plus two or four plus one; and if it's going to have an entire Europe, that's just the way it is. There's no problem here. In fact, the argument that with one year less studies would then be left behind who would study for one year more will not hold back, because we too had reforms when we, say, extended medical studies for one year, but never said that now those who have less study for one year will have to do some more differential exams or something like that; we admitted to them, it was a reform that cannot be avoided. And it's the same now that we're introducing a nine-year-old, and it doesn't occur to anyone that now those of us who have only been done eight years have to do another differential year for the ninth year of study; it doesn't occur to anyone. That is why this argument that then those who work later will be slightly affected, according to the new one, because they will have to study more - that is true, but this will bring about reform. We have already had the cases that I mentioned, so this is not the most important argument, and others are important. I have with me a translation of a purely specific institution from the neighbours, where this is clearly defined, and I expect other colleagues to say something, and then I will only mention it in the end, or in explaining this particular thing, to further back up what I have been saying. I support these amendments, which amount to four years of university education, a diploma, with a new, four plus one or five plus two. Just that, for a new one, there's no comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, since I have more debaters to report, I will be adjourning the meeting in 30 minutes at this time. At 1:30 a.m., we will continue to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u86	Dearly respected, we continue to work on the debate on Article 51 and the four amendments to this Article. I invite Mr. Yes Marija Tisovic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the time of this Article 51, we should look a little back at the development of our higher education. At first, we had a one-stage study. Then, after the 1960 ’ s, he came to our high school campus with a two-step study. There are people who have made the first and second stages during this period. Then it changed again and we came back to a one-stage study, plus a master's degree, plus a doctorate and so on. I think that with neither this article nor all the amendments that are here, we are not solving all the problems that will arise, because all these people are still on the labour market. And we really need to think hard about how we're going to decide how we're going to do this, so that now this article of the law will not cement things so that the day will not be right and put people in an equal position. That is why I would appeal to everyone to reconsider this and to review it again, and perhaps in the third reading something else will improve with the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u89	What the government has written to us in this 51st article, how it feels about the graduates of the current college study, is a clear indicator, in fact, of this extremely negative attitude and also of the valuations that our government devotes to 10,000 people. The equivalent of the university's first-degree education study so far is the grading of these 10,000 college-educated people compared to the same educated people in other countries. If the equivalent of this is a second degree in the Austrian Faculty, I wonder why our government values people and personnel so low, educated people, why in the labour market, labour force, the market of educated people when they go to Europe, with one measure degrades them and devalues them. Look, so far, our people have had tremendous difficulties in nostrating diplomas, in recognizing the appropriate education to obtain work abroad. This, in turn, makes it even more valuable. But you haven't only evaluated these people, you've evaluated them at the same time, and you've tried to evaluate the reputation and reputations of our college. I know that in some of our humanities, it is possible to become a regular professor without an article published in international magazines. That's sad, but that's how it is. At the same time, I say that at least some colleges, such as science, are technical, where I have an insight into the quality of graduates, are European comparable, or that sometimes even come from them more widely educated and qualified people than some foreign universities have given them. And now with one measure these people are or these people are just first-degree graduates. That's why he can't stay. Thus, he cannot remain and I think that these tens of thousands of graduates will be justly revolutionized. As a result, one of these amendments must be adopted in a second reading, and in this way the recognised education that has been achieved in the school system must be preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u91	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! The debate on Article 51 shows that it is never too difficult to explain what we are dealing with. Today we are adopting a law that introduces the level of education in Bologna. And it introduces three stages. The first is the one that is equivalent to the current high education in this country. Higher education is already divided into three years and four years, except for regulated professions, where things last longer. And it'll be like this after the new one. The first stage will take either three or four years; this will be the case everywhere in Europe. And that's what we should do. I think the most nervous is in general, even in the hall, on this subject, czech, but now those who have a high school will be able to compete where, otherwise, only we who have a university can compete. I would like to point out that this law does not regulate itself today, but in this country it is true that all those who have such an education have the seventh level of education. And wherever it is described that it is necessary to have the seventh level of education, there can all such ones compete. However, the employer shall decide, for the first time, whether or not to sign the course of education required to have or sign off on an implicit 4 or 3 year-old education. That's how it's gonna be in the future. Otherwise it can't be. This is the situation throughout Europe. And because of this situation throughout Europe, within the Lisbon Convention almost a decade ago, they decided to separate the evaluation of education, once for the needs of the labour market and twice for the advancement of education. And the 51st article mainly deals with how many credits you are recognised if you have completed some type of study here in Slovenia. And it says, if you've already got 60 credits, so you've completed a four-year program, and you'd be registered to 3+2, it's already worth 60 credits, I'm saying. That's because he says if you go into a vertical or in a related program. And maybe someone could prescribe 10 extra credits. It's at the core of this story that we're discussing. We cannot afford to declare back in Slovenia that the four-year duration of the study is five years. In Europe, we would have great difficulty not to say what we would think of a few thousand people who would give a master's degree. Why? Since we have a low education structure, it would probably be a view from the outside. And this is how we raised her as a nation. However, I would like to draw attention to a very specific case, which does not prove everything, but points to the very possible situation that we would come into if we accepted the logic that some people are offering here today. I'm studying French with the current system. I finish it after four years. I'm getting a four-year degree. And they're already studying with me, because that's what we're going to have, according to the new four-year French program. I finish my French and I get my degree. If I finish with the old program, according to the suggestions I'm listening to here, this person gets a second grade degree after a four-year study and a master's degree. This new one, four years and a diploma, and a graduate, I don't know what it is. First degree of education. How would we justify this to the generations we're sending to school now? Then why would they even change my system? Why don't we just stick to four-year education giving us a master's degree? I just don't get it. We just can't afford it. And then this should take something else behind it. If there's a master's degree for four years, then what's four years plus two. We've already had a supplement in the treatment that this is a doctorate, so the masters become doctors because they become the current master's graduates. What do doctors become? This is a story that goes too far, ladies and gentlemen. I know that it is not exactly what is said here that is written in Austrian, Italian or German law. That's not true. Hold on to something else, they have the same problem as we do with considering this issue in Germany. A very lively discussion is currently under way in Germany on whether or not four and a half years of such a thing would be admitted to others. At the level of the law they do not regulate this, they recognise the credits that have been achieved here. If it were to prove that Europe would act differently from us, of course we could do the same to them. For the time being, however, let us not devalue anyone, because every diploma which has been obtained remains in force, both a diploma which is obtained after three years and after four years, a Master's degree in science and a doctorate. All of this remains in force. Questions arise only when we ask ourselves whether we would be able to translate them. For the first time, the question is why would we have to translate it if someone went to do it, and for the second time, and that's the last, because it seems to me to be standing back as a fear of our thinking. In fact, we have a hunch and I think Comrade Petan has mentioned that we will have many masters in so many years and so many years. We'll have them, but not just by Bologna. And I've been saying here today that in a few years, the number of those studying for Master's degree has doubled by the old system. In 15, 20 years, we will probably have a situation in which the most important places are likely to have a request for such an education, but not in the usual places. In the usual places, there will still be a degree in education. In fact, there's no assumption that everyone will continue their studies at the Master's, which we're discussing just like that. Where they are already testing, it turns out that they are setting themselves as a goal, as I say, to achieve it, we too will very late reach it in 50%, perhaps a percentage more. Today we have about 50% of people enrolled in a year, even in tertiary education. [[...]] First, we will work hard to get 60 percent or more of them into the first stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Petan to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to discuss this much anymore, which is exactly what I'm going to do. I have the documents of a very specific institution, not the Ministry, not anything else, but a specific document of a particular university. I'll give you a piece of this, Mr. Secretary, what I think is important, I won't give you any of the rest of the salads. This is specifically the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Siena. It's in Italy, it's not some country, I think we know what Siena is. They have specific texts on the reform website and so also mention. Then, of course, they have all the data on the study directions that are huge. Over a hundred. And, of course, the conditions for entry and what someone achieves. And look, in the column that talks about students who are still studying the old system, because it's leaky, those who are now second, third, fourth year will still be in the old system. And that's all I'm gonna read to you. Not much. "Students who remain in the old system are students who are enrolled in a second or higher year this year, students who are applying for a transition to another four-year course or other university, and already graduate students who are enrolled in an individual study, can continue their university career on their own according to the old study programme, taking into account the credit system...", that is to say, they are already elements of a new one. And then at the end of this paragraph, because what doesn't seem important to me in the meantime is written, "We're warning," and it's written with a beard, "that he has a four-year diploma," that's what it's called for back, what's for back there, studying under the old law, "the same value as a new specialist diploma, [[So three-year diploma plus two-year specialization]] ".." That's what they wrote. Now I wonder how one college from one prestigious Italian university can afford to write something like that if it wasn't valid for all of Italy, for the whole country, and if I didn't know it, maybe it's also disrupting their system, that's what I'm taking, but obviously they've decided to do it, so they'll just "risk" it and people who graduated at four years of age will not be able to prevent better conditions for invitations. That's what I keep saying. I do not dispute this new law forward, I have no comments there, except for funding, this is another matter, but organisationally I have no comments. That's how we agreed, and that's how it's gonna be. To me, it is only those 100,000 graduates of the university four-year programme to be equal, specifically with those who graduated, say, in Italy. And Mr. Minister, I don't criticize you, but I need to talk to you because you're just a representative of the ministry that covers it. And I only prepared what seemed important to me to know which website I got that it was really this university that I didn't make up. But it's in Italian. I obtained my own translation of the vowed linguist for that language, so he handed it to me in the manner that he could. I'll give you that. If anything's gonna help, okay, but if it doesn't, I don't know, but there's gonna be problems. I'll give it to you if I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u95	Thank you. I cannot agree with anything that Mr Minister has explained that the dictatorship and the provisions of this Article will not rob anyone of or devalue anything. Article 51, first paragraph [[Quote]] : "The education obtained after the previous study programmes for the acquisition of higher vocational education and under university education programmes corresponds to the education obtained under the first-degree study programmes of this law." University education is equivalent to first-degree study programmes under this law. If this is not an evaluation against equivalent criteria and equivalent education in Austria and Italy - what did colleague Petan just prove to you - then what is evaluation? And it doesn't make sense. I believe it is difficult to get in the context of the bologna system, but you have put an important population of Slovenian university graduates in a deprived position and evaluated them. I am sure that they will not remain silent because this is a helping hand to those school systems in Europe that have already had a higher education and will not, of course, immediately acknowledge everything that our education has given. But you've already given up everything in advance to properly evaluate our graduates, and that seems to me to be something illogical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Tercheon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First, I would say - as Mr Petan put it when he gave the case of the Faculty of Philosophy in Sienna - that this is not a good example. This is like watching some kind of invitation with us, where they say they need someone with university education, which is understood to be a four-year university study, or a high school graduate, a high-school professional, with a specialty. This is the same case. Then it is equivalent to three years of study plus two years of specialization with a four-year study. The same is true for us when university education is required for certain jobs - we have such cases, we have incorporated this instrument in the Law on Public Servants, when university education or higher vocational education is required for a particular job, which means that after a three-year study there must be a specialisation. So that's not the case. And I find it completely inappropriate to give individual cases because these studies in Europe are so different. And the Bologna Declaration is just the first to make some uniform criteria that will continue to be complementary for a long time, so there are also long transitional periods to have comparable cases or rates in the future. I have to say that I think this debate is quite a bit, we're looking at it through ourselves. She's pretty lobbyist. And of course, every move to either get one degree higher with a four-year study was approached by the masters. Or someone who did two years of study approached the one with three years of age and so on. On the other hand, it is the envy of those who have higher education or higher education than others, of course, to draw close to them and to meet the same conditions. At the same time, it seems to me that the law is so made that it speaks mainly of giving some framework and talking about a credit system that allows for the continuation of the study. So it's not just a problem of continuing the study, because we're learning something, the problem is employment. Under what conditions will we be employed? We don't go to school just to continue our schooling. We're studying to get a job. Let's get this straight. And here's the problem, this competitive problem. Look, today I think if we're bartering, who should be in there, and at what level, I think the most disadvantaged are those who have graduated from a higher school that is nowhere here. However, they were in a higher education system, so it might indicate that if we were doing comparisons, they might also be included in the system. And imagine what, in 1970, the engineer with the first degree meant, and he's nowhere else today. But it was then, sir. Maybe it had more weight than today's Master. And this problem was caused by something else that wasn't built into this education law, but it was incorporated into many of the laws that we have adopted and which is a classic lobbyist problem that is then articulated through the ministries through the proposals of the law that we confirm. It is that at a certain point someone meets the conditions, all the prescribed conditions, gets a job, we adopt a new law and he no longer meets the conditions, although he is 5 years old until retirement. We can apply to Members of Parliament. Some went to the Members when they met all the conditions for the job they were meeting. Once their term of office has expired, if they are not re-elected or given another service, they will no longer meet the conditions, they will not be able to return to the same job they have already served and are qualified for. We in this society place absolutely too much emphasis on formal education and too little emphasis on experience. I don't think it should happen with any law that anyone who has already received, conditionally speaking, a license to do a job that, at the moment this job took place, has all the prescribed qualifications that have been upgraded with experience, but happens at a certain point in time that due to changes in the law he is no longer qualified for it. Each law can set a higher level of education and require higher conditions, but this should apply to those who come, to those who will respond to calls, to those who will be employed, to young people. Because there is also a gradual process of schooling. It is unacceptable that someone who is 50 years old who has always been able to do so is no longer qualified for a legal provision. I think it's even unconstitutional. And this practice in Europe, in most cases I'm sure it's not in us. Because lobbyists with different educations, with different positions, lobby and then disable competition. We had the case, I participated in the law myself, when we laid down the outline of the borderline in geodetic matters of university education, we allowed on the basis of a constitutional complaint after which construction techniques could still be designed and managed demanding facilities. Do you imagine this irony? — 1 Corinthians 15: 58. For the outline of the border line, the geodetic recording required university education, and the designer who needed it as a basis could have been a technician when designing. We have done this with this confusion and only by ignoring one of the most fundamental principles that someone who has already obtained a qualification and a license to do a particular job has acquired it in life and with experience only upgraded it. And the experience here is no longer valid, but I'm sorry, just formal education. Therefore, the pursuit of a map that would look better was, of course, signed properly, but not what he would know. That's why I think this is a classic lobbying debate. I have to say, the basic proposal seems to me to be reasonable. I can say for myself that it could be different, but in any case, some people will be satisfied and some dissatisfied. I miss myself in college, which has been in the system of undergraduate studies until now. Otherwise, it would suggest that we establish a system and perhaps upgrade it somewhere in the future when we have more basis for comparison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u98	Thank you very much. There's something you've come up with. Let me tell you the order. Mrs. Tisovic, Kremjar, Petan, Tanko, Minister. Mrs. Ana Maria Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. The debate is very sharp and very interesting. Because it appears that a number of issues are opening up, which are actually more complicated than it solves in this article. This article is one of the transitional provisions, and I believe that, given that not everything is cemented in Europe as well, that this is a process that is supposed to end there somewhere in 2008, 2009 alone, I think we are also ahead of it. There are a lot of things that are unclear, a lot of things that need to be worked out and then come to one clever final conclusion. In fact, marriage must contribute something but not only negatively to a particular group. Our higher education system has changed a lot in the last 40 years. There's these and different profiles coming out. They worked at the first level, at the third level, some of them. And now it's all in one bag, I don't think it's smart. I think that in the third reading, this article could be withdrawn and debated. As a result of this Article, we will not support the law, but others will, and I do not think that it is necessary to continue the Bologna process as it began. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u100	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u101	I propose an amendment to this Article, such that the first, second and third paragraphs of Article 51 are deleted and the fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs are redrafted. The reason for this is that I am sure that it is necessary to take some time not to remove some of the other dilemmas that we have heard here today. Above all, it may be that we are waiting, if I say so, for certain solutions that will emerge in this European circle, which may be slightly different from what is now stated in Article 51, first, second, third paragraph, so that it may then give us the opportunity to carry these things out in an easier way, to agree and to put them into practice. And in this way we may also eliminate much of what has been said in the debate so far. However, there are some concerns, and I have some concerns myself, despite, of course, the very clear definitions of the Bologna Declaration and despite the desire to settle these matters. I get this wish myself that it needs to be arranged. I therefore propose such an amendment, which simply does not entangle these things, such as are now embodied in Article 51, paragraph 1, second and third, but gives the possibility to regulate them in a different way, or then to supplement or amend this law or this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Of course, the amendment is not yet on the table, but amendments may be amended and tabled in the framework of the urgent procedure by the end of the discussion under each Article. There are quite a few of you who have been reported for debate. I'm sure the amendment will come on the bench. In the debates under this Article, all of you who have been notified shall also identify yourself before this announced amendment, in order to delete, if I have understood correctly, the first, second and third paragraphs in Article 51. In this case, if we were to decide on such an amendment, the debate on all the amendments tabled by the other parliamentary groups is irrelevant because that is why these amendments are being tabled. Mr. Petan has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. That's actually more of a replica, but I didn't force it with a replica before, Mr. Tarchoon. Comrade Terchon, because I'm not reading anything to you, you've just given your opinion. But I have to tell you, I don't think I'm naive enough to sell you some air on such important matters. Look, I'm gonna show you a little bit more, because from the material I showed you, there was no way. I would like to tell you that this dictatorship, their new specialist diploma, three plus two, is now a new diploma. And they write here, "L'Aurea Specialist" has a second degree, "secondo livello", that's the second stage; that's what we're talking about. And if that four-year legal value is the same, it means that this diploma of four-year study is also equivalent. That's what I'm saying. That's what's important. And not now to say that Italy is something special. Because of me, it can be a specialty, because we are special. But right now, we're building the same values, same legislation, and we're neighbors with Italians, whether that suits us or not. I don't mind. We are neighbors and the influences of our side there and those sides I am are great, especially from that side I am. And then why are we now going to be graduates of this four-year study in an unequal situation with the Italians? Why? We're doing a lot of damage to each other. We're hurting each other because we have other cases. For example, I actually have nine semesters, not just eight, but I'm not going to complicate it now, but it's a principle solution, an equation with others. Until we were so connected to the European space, it was a little different, we were just in our own space. But now they can perform on our labour market and we can perform on theirs. And why would our graduates be affected? Besides, why do we have to put this into this law now, because, as far as I know other laws, it's not directly written in this law, but it's just how it goes. That's okay. We're the same there. I'm not complicating anything about the organization, and I'm not saying anything's wrong with it. It's all right. But it's going back, and it's clearly written. If one university in Italy can write this down to equalize, then this is certainly true for all of Italy, because one did not make it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Tank's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Sometimes we are overly strict about ourselves, and we want to solve many things differently than others have. We have had similar examples in a number of laws that we coordinated and adopted in the National Assembly, including in laws that dealt with European comparability and coordination. For example, in the veterinary field, where certain things have been written down substantially more stringently than all the rest of normal Europe has. It's about the same in this area. We exaggerate and do everything again to self-degradate, to degrade all those who have acquired these levels, to degrade thousands of citizens and to demolish our educational system or colleges as such. I don't think there's a whole lot of need for these things. The other thing is. I think that not only what Mr Minister has mentioned must this internal comparability be performed between individual titles, rankings and so on, acquired in the past and present. That's not the only criterion. I think that the external comparability referred to earlier by Mr Petan, where we are competing with other countries in Europe, is more important: we need to combat comparability and equality and balance at this level. It is not for us to degrade ourselves and humiliate ourselves where others fail, and it is for ourselves to do so. The next thing is that Slovenia is not the only one going into the Bologna process within the space. Other countries are also going into the Bologna process, such as the countries of the former Yugoslavia. And they probably won't write such things in their higher education laws. And there, those who graduate in Pristina, for example, will write that this is the second stage, and those who come here to Slovenia will be in a completely superior position over any graduate of the old system. I think it is totally unacceptable that we probably have a worse status than any people who will invade this place and compete in jobs. Slovenia must protect itself and I think that any initiative after this article's recovery is welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Jakic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In fact, many questions are raised by Article 51. All I have to say is that a few people have come to me with one other question. Not so much with the question of what we will admit and what we will not admit in Slovenia, but whether Slovenian graduates and graduates will compete in the labour market. Today, it has also been said by the minister that the great dilemma in Germany is what to admit or what education to be recognized as the first stage and which level as the second stage. People who have turned to me are only asking one question, and here, of course, is the answer. The question is, will we be handicapped for the same job in, say, the Brussels administration of Slovenian diplomats and graduates compared to Swedish and German? It is a question of whether the German discussion will lead to the recognition of university education as a second stage and, in Slovenia, university as a first step, or whether this means that Germany and Sweden will take precedence over Slovenians and Slovenians or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It also, of course, opens up, given that the free movement of people, capital, labour, the issue of jobs to be opened in the Republic of Slovenia. Will those from abroad who will go towards the recognition of university education as second-degree, have priority over our citizens and citizens, who will have a recognised first stage? So I don't think it would be good today to close this discussion at this point and think in the direction that ideas have already been here, looking for a way to actually not cement this story, but to describe it or explain it by lending or credit points and then to complete the system further. That is why, of course, I am pledging, if only possible, to try to find such a variant, a variant that will allow for some flexible manoeuvre space in which we will be able to make all these arguments which are on the table and which are "discussive" in a way that we will not obstruct or disable or deprive citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have university education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u108	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your word. I do not think that further discussion will be necessary, as some of us are already repeating ourselves. I'm not saying what I meant to say. Given that there has somehow been a proposal to delete the first three paragraphs of Article 51, I think we could find another solution. What's this all about? Translation of qualifications according to existing previous systems is an extremely demanding business in order not to cancel or devalue or devalue some previous education. It's just a simple rule. See, in this education system, we recognize primary school to all who have graduated as compulsory primary school. Those who have completed seven years of schooling, those who have completed eight years of age, those who are now nine years of age, all have primary school and all are recognized as the perfect foundation of school. It's a logical rule. The German system has also specifically defined in these allegations that there must be no reduction or any suspicion of the devaluation of the previous education or of the attainment of educational degrees or academic titles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I invite the Minister to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We would be prepared to accept the supplement proposed by Comrade Kremjar and speak roughly about what Mr Drobnic has been talking about. Let me explain. These laws, German, Austrian, Italian, which are also referred to by the home page of the University of Siena, do not deal with. Nor do I suggest that on the home side we judge what is going on in the systems, because if you look at our home pages of all colleges, you could also read a lot of wishes on these pages. However, we propose to stay with the rest of Article 51, and I now predict that in the law on professional and scientific addresses we will then regulate what we are now talking about. By then, we are likely to be able to survive for a few months and see what is happening in Europe in this area. At the same time, let me say this. When he spoke to Comrade Terchón, and I also think, when Mr Petan spoke, about the question of who would go somewhere to work, what would that mean for future employment, then I would point out that this is not the law in which we are discussing it. We need to ask ourselves what conditions we set for employment when we make them by law, by those laws. This law tells you what kind of education you're going to get, no, who's going to say that now they have to have a second degree. By the time we put this up, let us ask ourselves if it is really necessary and now demand a second level of education. And if we ask for it, then we can't say that those who have already graduated in some area have suddenly lost their proper education. That's another problem, it got mixed up in our discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek. I'm afraid I don't have you among the writers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I must say that I am actually pleased that some healthy reflections have also come from the coalition lines, but I am sad that only when the members of the government coalition join in will the ministry also move forward and in some way recognises that this article is problematic. I fear that this article was a result of the policy of 'work and rule'. To receive 100,000 graduates, this will wipe out a little misery within the university, which is at the edge of the hotline, and we will drive a little easier between the means of this problem. Now all these colleagues have come to realize that it is not possible to evaluate exactly before Europe a graduate of the university study so far. It will be necessary, I agree, to find a suitable solution in this title law. However, if this was strictly, firmly, as was envisaged here, written down, but a much greater problem would be to solve anything afterwards, to repair. Retrograde, it's much harder back than to think in time. But here is the original sin of not bringing the law into regular procedure, so that there will be enough time to think about it, but not now that we are making rotten compromises, as is the case today before the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u114	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u115	Thank you very much. If I understand the Minister correctly, it is only a temporary solution, it is said that the moment we enter into the law on scientific titles in this National Assembly or perhaps that State Assembly, which will be constituted after the elections. However, it is good that we are already discussing this issue so that we will not face a dilemma again, as we are today under this law, which is being adopted in a quick manner following an urgent procedure, where it has actually proved that this matter is not sufficiently debated. If the opposition had not tabled its amendments to this article today, then, of course, our fellow Member, Kremjar, would not have had anything to put on the amendment, but would have been the law in the form proposed by the Ministry, also adopted. It seems important to me that I note this, because before me my colleague Kremjar, not my colleague Kremjar, I would like to say my colleague Terchón discussed how laws are passed in this national assembly, which then have retrograde consequences. That's right, Comrade Terchon. But you voted for all these laws. Many times in the opposition we have been alerted to the retrograde and the consequences of such decisions. And today here to talk like that, I'm sorry, I think it's a bit of a ruse. All you've been saying is true, but once again, you've accepted it. That is why we have repeatedly resisted such a procedure in the opposition. Because you want to force something out through Parliament, something short of it, but it's an extremely important and big decision. What's ahead of us today, or I don't have that problem because I think doctors, vets and pharmacists are exempt. But I would never agree that those who have graduated from the university should suddenly be equal to those who have not finished the university and all have a recognised first degree. This is a degradation, because it has to be counted that after this new Bologna system, not in five years, I think a lot of Masters in five years, and ten years will be the majority, all of whom will end, will be Masters. I'll tell you again why I think so. Because young people today cannot get a job even after a four - year study, not after a three - year study. Everyone's going to continue those two years of study, and then they're going to get the name Master. And when the job market is looking for a job with a four-year education that will only be recognised as the first stage, surely the one who will bear the title of Master will have the advantage. That's how it is. Therefore, once again, so the "ad hoc" solutions adopted, in the way many times the government imposed on us and, of course, in the ruling coalition without much criticism, they are not good. And in fact, we have enacted ourselves many superstandards that are not known in the European Union countries. I know about the veterinary field where we've made, or rather, you've made a lot of such mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Tercheon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u117	Since I have been mentioned, Madam Vice-President, I would only answer Mr Sok. I am probably one of those Members, Mr Sok, who I have been, at least I have tried and I hope that I have been consistent, which I have never voted for such a solution. However, I must say that you have not always voted against such solutions, but you have made a decision on principle, first look at myself, what education I have, then look at my company and my friends and what it will do me, and then you decide. The vote was very heterogeneous, both in the opposition and in position. That's not a political issue, professionally. This is primarily a lobbyist question, that we understand each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u119	Thank you very much. At least the question that we are considering is from different debates, even though I have not even discussed this thoroughly in my mother's working body, known from the moment the law was tabled. We have been talking about this since then, and we have different views and different questions. For the most part, a proposal was drafted on the working body, which is now an integral part of the purified text of the draft law in Article 51. I do not say that this solution, which is proposed, is hasty or reckless, I do not hope to say this. That there is less time when decisions are taken by emergency procedure is probably true. But I have to say, in a way, I only speak for one reason. See, fellow members of the opposition, if I may, my fellow Members and colleagues, when insisting on decisions that have been made at some stage, a coalition roller is criticised. And it is said that this is an unacceptable method because there is no consensus; but consensus is felt when the last of the opposition says it agrees with something. However, if the Minister is prepared to give warnings, to seek solutions that would not change the basic solution in the law, but, say, explain to me, but also to all of you, to put on another law, at a later time without harm, you say, that is bad because the solution will be taken quickly, or whether or not, we are the ones that have provided it. Before the decision, I will think again, as Mr Podobnik says, thoroughly. However, I have to say that it seems to me that the solution that is proposed, if there are also substantive explanations, that this will be resolved by another law, by titles, and that this can be postponed for some time, because for some time the issue of "old" diplomas is a problem. [[In noodles, old]] Mine and ours, these hundred thousand, will not be real, because if there are no new ones that could be in conflict, then it seems to me that this can be accepted. That's all I want to say in the end. So far, however, we know or feel more or less no solutions or rare solutions that we have taken in the last phase have not proved to be very durable and very thoughtful. Thus we are not particularly pleased when we come to a meeting of the assembly now that we have different rules of procedure, we have a different role of working bodies, we should think on our working bodies, we should decide on concrete content, and in a small way I am in a bad mood, where my colleagues and colleagues in the coalition are very helpful in doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u120	Thank you very much. On the table of the amendment proposed by a group of ten Members and Members, with the first-signed Leo Kremjar, you do not yet have. I've got him in front of me. Until you get it on the bench, just let me explain. It is as Mr Kremjar has announced that, while proposing an amendment to Article 51, the content means deleting the first, second and third paragraphs of Article 21 which we have in the Rapporteur, the fourth paragraph begins "for graduates of the current university education programmes, in the entry into the new two-year Master's degree programmes in the same or related field of expertise, as a rule, the study obligations are recognised." I'll read it. I'm sorry. What did you want? Let me read it. Okay. I wanted you to think about it. I'm not going to go to the vote until you get him on the bench. I would like to tell you in the meantime, while we are waiting, what the applicants are proposing. They say that paragraph 51 should be prepared to read: "For graduates of the current university education programmes, enrolment in the new two-year Master's degree programmes in the same or similar field of expertise is generally recognised by students in the range of 60 credit points. The number of credit points recognised shall not exceed 60. For graduates of the current university education curricula who are educated in the professions regulated by Directives of the European Union and evaluated by 300 credit points or more, the provisions of Article 38a second indent of the second indent of the fourth paragraph of this Act shall apply to the admission to doctoral study programmes. Graduates of the previous specialisation study programmes, if their joint study has not lasted at least five years, shall be subject to the provision referred to in the third indent of paragraph 3(a) of Article 38a of this Act or shall be subject to additional study obligations of up to 60 credit points. Graduates of the current master's degree programmes shall be recognised in the doctor's study programme in the range of 60 credit points." Explanation: "The proposed amendment is comparable to the arrangements in other European Union countries, is in line with EU Council Directive 89/48 on a general system for the recognition of higher education diplomas awarded at the end of at least three years of education and Directives governing the conduct of regulated professions and does not improve the position of graduates when entering the labour market." This is the content which means what has already been established, namely the deletion of the first three paragraphs of Article 51. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Mojet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u121	I'd just like to give you an editorial. This 38.a is Article 19 of this Law, while this article does not have Article 38a, but Article 38a has the law, this is the one from 1993. That's how this thing doesn't drink water, probably.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u122	Mr Moge, Article 51, to the extent that I have been able to compare the content of the amendment and the content of the basic or complementary draft law proposed by the mother's working body, the amendment proposes an amendment to Article 51. According to the content, Mr Mogue, the deletion of the first, second and third paragraphs and only the editorial correction at the beginning of the fourth paragraph, which was contained in the text contained in the Rapporteur, irrespective of the provisions of the first paragraph which is no longer available, but which begins as graduates of the preceding Article 38a, Mr Moze, in the basic text of the amended proposal, namely, in the fourth paragraph of Article 51, if I am reading this law. [[...]] It's the same diction. Does this mean that you are warning that the mother's working body has made a mistake in preparing the amended bill, if I understand? That's right. Thank you very much. I think now is the time to make a change by supplementing this amendment, as soon as it is established, the services will be checked immediately. Mr. Mogue, thank you so much for your warning. Professionals say you're right. And if the motioners agree, then the word "this law" would be superfluous in this amendment, so, as the chairman of the committee suggested, it is only right that the word "this law" should be deleted before the last word of the first paragraph of your amended article. It would then read: "... the provision referred to in the second indent of paragraph 38a shall apply to the admission to doctoral study programmes. Article of the law." Okay. Thank you very much. I understand you want to go to the motion of an amendment. I read it, but I know it's the right of ambassadors to get an amendment to the bench. Only if someone did not protest and were satisfied that I had read it, could we move on to a decision. Mr. Petan nodded, wants to have the text of the amendment on the bench, so that's why we're waiting. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u123	also this amended article, by supplementing, which is of a editorial nature, Article 38a of the Act, is deleted twice in the text of the word "this law". [[...]] Given that this amendment is on the table and that I also read it, please the Members and Members, would anyone like another word? Nobody. So can I conclude the debate on Article 51 and the amendments to this Article? Yes, you can. I therefore conclude the debate. I am also informing you of how to vote, first of all, on the amendment proposed by the 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Leo Kremjar. We therefore vote first on the amendment of the 10 Members and Members, if this amendment is adopted, all the other amendments we have in the review and are four are irrelevant. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 44 Members and Members voted against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that this amendment has been adopted and that the amendments in the review from 1 to 4 have become irrelevant. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted two amendments, namely Articles 36 and 51 of the amended bill. I'm asking qualified candidates, who wants to possibly table an amendment? No, no, no. I therefore note that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140, I inform you that the legislature and the government have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted. That's why we can move on to a decision on the law. Vote explanation, Mr. Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u124	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I confirm the introductory words. The Slovenian national party is absolutely opposed to reception. For the first time, because we assess and we are convinced that educated Slovenians in the European space are placed in a secondary position. And also because our amendment, which was actually proposed, we will say, in search of and respect for the proposals of some colleges, designed so that you can Slovenianly say "that the wolf is full and the goat is whole". Because that was not the case, we will be absolutely opposed. However, I must also say that, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, we have expected such a way to end with an amendment, which is first voted on, and then everyone else falls. That's nothing new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u126	On behalf of the parliamentary group, too, on behalf of the Youth Party's Group, unfortunately, we note that our amendment has not been adopted. And as we have already announced on behalf of the Member of Parliament, of course there are no conditions for us to support this law. For all the arguments, both ours and those presented by direct students, were based on some serious analysis. Unfortunately, we have not heard from the minister that he himself would have some further analysis done, except of course, by his law makers. This would be the only bright exception to this amendment that we have just accepted and proposed by Comrade Kremjar, but this is significantly too small, as there is still a great risk that fees will be paid. And until it's clearly written that there's no tuition, we can't support such a marriage. Therefore, once again, Members of the Young Slovenia Party cannot support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 39 Members and Members voted against 17. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Ministry and the Minister for his cooperation very much. We're moving on to 35. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT TEXTS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is confirmed." We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 44 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia is confirmed." We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Trade Act." We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the assembly has cleared the text. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia is confirmed." We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the law on electronic commerce and electronic signature is confirmed." We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We decide on the proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially purified text of the plant protection law." We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the purified text of the law is confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the technical requirements law for products and conformity assessment shall be confirmed." We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an officially purified text of the law has been confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Mountain Guides Act is confirmed." We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the officially refined text has been confirmed. We decide on the proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the consumer credit law." We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the purified text has been confirmed. We decide on the proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Industrial Property Act." We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We decide on the proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the anti-competition law." We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the assembly has officially cleared the text of the law. Finally, the final proposal of the decision: "The text of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures shall be officially clarified." We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. It was announced that an amendment would be tabled, and indeed the New Slovenia Group has tabled an amendment in the third reading to Article 10.a. I am therefore opening the debate on the amendment of the motioners to Article 10a. Anybody want a word? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I will briefly state that the New Slovenia Group once again proposes what has already been deleted in the second reading, namely, the United List of Social Democrats proposed deleting Article 10.a in the second reading. Our arguments about the deletion of this article have not convinced us, for we are still in the same position as we were at the time, namely, that if a disabled person finds a employer who is willing to work for him, it is also necessary to allow the law to allow him, in doing so, the rights that go to him under the Social Protection Act of physically and mentally disabled persons to rest during that time. The explanation that this would reduce the social rights of such persons was, of course, not substantiated in any way in this national assembly, and, as I am aware, this amendment also came from the proposal of disability organisations and, of course, we propose that this be determined, Article 10a, to return to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u129	Thank you very much. My word to Mrs. Areh Lavrič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. For the same reason that I supported the amendment of the parent working body and also advocated it at the second reading meeting of the national assembly, I support today's amendment, since it thus aligns the content of the proposed law with the content of the amended proposal. I don't think there's a particular need for an additional explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Madam Undersecretary, Mrs. Tutta, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u132	The proposed amendment is not supported by the Government, because it recognises the right to work rehabilitation of the group of the most difficult persons with disabilities in non-systematic terms and under unequal conditions, i.e. persons with disabilities who cannot be trained to work alone and not to live on their own. Restoring the rights proposed by this amendment, the rights set out in the Social Protection Act of physically and mentally disabled persons, would not only constitute a peaceful right to compensation for disability, but also a peaceful right to protection in general and special institutions. So, the rest of the right to special accommodation, the special forms of residence that such persons belong to. Restoring the rights to an allowance for foreign care and the assistance that these persons have the right to obtain under this law. Therefore, the adoption of such an amendment would undoubtedly reduce the social security of this group of persons with disabilities, but not increase or give them greater opportunities, as this group of the most difficult persons with disabilities can already be employed under conditions such as this amendment. These issues referred to in this Article should therefore be addressed systematically and this will be addressed in the law on equalisation of opportunities already under preparation. With this article and such an amendment, they cannot be regulated. I therefore suggest that this amendment is not supported by the National Assembly and that we first build the whole system before we disrupt anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u133	Thank you very much. And Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. This is a provision that has been greatly missed by those working in the field of vocational training for persons with disabilities. This provision makes the system more acceptable and adapts more to the individual interests of persons with disabilities. This would also increase their employability. This would, in fact, also relieve the burdens from the social funds; and a number of things I could count on you, you know. Of course, there would be a peace of rights and no one would be pushed into such a situation. This would be his personal decision if he found an employee; whether it was his own protection or his own personal assistance, he could have stayed or stayed at home or similar, if, of course, he was unable otherwise to do so, he did not have these urgent needs met. In short, nothing forceful, no one would lose because it would be his personal decision. I therefore propose that this provision or this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u135	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I listened carefully to the explanation, and this is the first argument we have heard from the government regarding this proposal. In fact, the argument is so pointless, because this proposal clearly sets out the rights that would prevail, namely, from two laws. Of course, the government says, and in addition, others should rest, because they themselves are proposing this, it is not in this amendment, which, of course, is causing harm. First, they invent a problem, on the basis of this problem, they condemn others for discrimination and for abolishing rights, but I don't know if they've read what's proposed here, if they've really listened to the proposaler. This argument by the government, I regret, is empty, meaningless. First you put up a snowman so he can get rid of him. That doesn't make any sense. This amendment must be adopted because we have not heard any arguments so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u137	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on the amendment? Since it does not want to, I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 10a. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 33. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not warned me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised, so we are moving on to a full decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 52 of us present, 50 of us voted in favour of the law, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Ministry of Cooperation. We are moving on to the end of the 9th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the road transport law, a reduced procedure. We're moving to third reading. I find that an amendment to Article 4 has been tabled. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 4. Anybody want a word? Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, if, of course, colleagues and colleagues are willing to listen. Therefore, we are amending the Road Transport Act in order to comply with European Union legislation. This amended law will now provide that special line transport can also be carried out by school children and by workers. The proposal for this amendment, however, is that on these special line transports, where there are no regular line lines - once again, where there are no regular lines - other residents can also be transported. Thus, the adoption of such an amendment would be very positive for rural areas, because many in rural areas today are not regular line bus carriers, while special line transports for school-bound children are, of course, organised everywhere. The argument that we have heard here was that schools are opposed to such solutions, I am sure that it is not so, nor was there any argument cited why schools would oppose it. After all, this is something that the congregation pays and is organized in agreement with the congregations. I suggest we support this amendment. In the second reading, only two votes have run out of support for the amendment, thus contributing to the resolution of bus transport in rural areas. Thank you very much. I'm gonna stop with that. I can see the darkness isn't interesting. Nevertheless, I ask Members and Members of Parliament to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word with the article and the amendment? As no, I conclude the debate on Article 4 and the amendment tabled in Article 4. We are moving on to a decision on this amendment. May I have your attention, we're voting on the amendment. There are 56 of us present, 21 votes in favour, 30 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 54 of us present, 37 of us voted in favour of the law, 14. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 14th.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 36. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. The assembly will consider under this item the proposal for a decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Affairs of the European Union, then the proposal for a decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy and, as a third, the proposal for a decision to appoint the President and Vice-Presidents of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Affairs of the European Union We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First of all, I will put to the debate a proposal for a decree establishing a Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Affairs of the European Union. The Committee's proposal was submitted to the College of the President of the National Assembly for consideration. Anyone want a word on behalf of the proposer? No, no, no. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Anybody want a word? Not at all. I am therefore concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision establishing a Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Affairs of the European Union. I will put the motion for a decree to the vote. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 49 votes against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I turn to the proposal for a decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. The proposal was submitted to the College of the National Assembly for consideration by the assembly. Anyone want a word on behalf of the proposer? Nobody. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? Nobody. Do any of the Members and Members want a word? No one, either. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. We're voting. In attendance at 56, the decree voted 47 against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one's against it.]] The decree has been adopted. Thirdly, under this item, the proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for European Union Affairs. This proposal was also tabled by the parliamentary groups for consideration. Anyone want a word from the proponents? Nobody. Does anyone want a word in the context of the views of the parliamentary groups? Nobody. From Members and Members? Nobody. Excuse me, Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u140	Thank you, Vice President. The proposal that was designed surprises me a little. First. It does not take into account the relationship of political parties in the National Assembly, of course the majority should have two in the leadership itself - the President and the Vice-President and the opposition, the Vice-President. That's the first thing I don't understand is how it happened. Second. I don't see any women, and we've always been a little bit more attached to this criterion when it comes to the appointment of the heads of the labour force in the National Assembly. I am so surprised by the design of the proposal and I would ask that we discuss it before we can identify ourselves with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u141	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a President and a Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] The decision is adopted, and the decision is adopted. I'm closing the agenda. Before we move to the next item on agenda item 14, we will make the committee 30 minutes to distribute and reproduce the report of the committee and then continue to work, continue at 3.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u142	Because I can see, just a little bit of colleagues and colleagues, because I see a bit of a misunderstanding about this proposal. We can start the treatment, only the reports aren't on the table. Does anyone object to us starting without a report on the table? Half an hour's rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u143	With regard to this item on the agenda, the National Assembly will consider a proposal for a decision submitted by the Internal Policy Committee for consideration by the assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? Please, chairman of the committee, colleague Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u144	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! As is commonly known, the instigators from Kopra - that is, Sandra Letica's first-signed from Izola, I am correcting - have proposed a referendum on a question that has been on our tables for quite some time. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly, who felt that the issues raised were constitutionally debated, proposed to the Committee or to the National Assembly that this should be clarified. And if the opinion of this committee were the same as that of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court shall request an opinion. Well, on this proposal she has prepared a report, as usual, on the rule of law, and I think that in the report that you have before you and you can also read it at that time, everything that is in the main is correctly summarized in the legislative and legal service report. I must say that the meeting of the committee was also attended by a government representative, Dr Bohinc, who did not take the floor. It should also be noted that Mrs Sandra Letica did not attend the meeting and apologized. In the course of the debate, the LDS, United Letters and DeSUS groups tabled a new proposal for a decision under Article 15 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative and proposed that the Committee adopt it as its own. In a controversial debate - I think it is correctly written now - they were first warned, so on the one hand, representatives of the opposition, the shortcomings, their view of constitutionality, that is, everything that has already been said in this regard. And, of course, in the opposite direction, the position argued what was the reason for such a decision or for a constitutional assessment. Later, after this additional proposal for a decision has been tabled in the debate - and in some way is based on the 17th point of the last constitutional decision - that the National Assembly itself should decide that the issues before us are constitutionally disputed and that is why this procedure is halted. This was also the subject of discussion, and in the end, the majority decided to adopt such a proposal for a decision. At the end of the debate, it was also proposed that, in order to provide an opportunity or deadline for a complaint before the Constitutional Court in such a case, it should be proposed to the national assembly that only this proposal for a decision, rather than a proposal for a third-reading law, should be addressed under this point. Well, this is also evident from the report. So at the end of the debate, the proposal for a decision, as before you, and in full explanation also rightly prescribed: "The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that," says this point - "the third reading of the law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor states of the former SFRJ be postponed to one of the following meetings." This is an additional decision. Otherwise, the decision to reject this procedure shall be taken. That's, I think, everything that needs to be said on the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the government? He doesn't want to. Then I will invite representatives of the parliamentary groups, if they so wish. Mr Peče on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u146	Your Honors are here! Some time ago, this National Assembly met with one of the laws that came with the designation 'conformity with the legal order of the European Union', otherwise the law was called the Financial Insurance Act. The position of the law-law service in that law was that the law was inappropriate and there was quite something mentioned, according to our assessment of the legitimate reasons. Despite the warning, at least by the Slovenian National Party, at that time this entire national assembly, the ruling majority, said: "Since when is the opinion of the legislative and legal service binding on decision-making within this national assembly?" These were literally the views of the Liberal Democracy, the United List, DeSUS. On the day when the initiative came with the necessary number of signatures, i.e. a request for signatures to come to the referendum, the President, the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, turned to the legislative and legal service. At the same time, this position is a legislative and legal service, which is, of course, negative for the initiative, as was the case with all the other initiatives that have touched on the issues of self-exposure, which have become the most binding issue within the legislative branch of government. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, this time the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, the mother labour body said that the opinion was sacred. So, what does it mean? In certain laws, whose content you do not like, you like the position of the legislative and legal service and you label it alpha and omega. So we can't take this step against the law. Otherwise, it's just a different content, and you say: the opinion from the legislative and legal service, but it doesn't matter. This is one of the different opinions, as if it is a legislative and legal service, for example, the smallest parliamentary group in this national assembly, which is only expressing its opinion and for us, it does not play any role. At least on the part of the National Party's parliamentary group, that you are now a few days before the conclusion of the National Assembly, you are so principled and at least now tell us when the opinion of the legislative and legal service plays a role and when this opinion does not play any role. We'll see about that. Perhaps it will be easier for all those who follow us in the new convention. Allow me to further touch upon our assessment of the recent unnecessary complications. So all the proponents wanted, i.e. applicants for signatures, is that the State Assembly, under the referendum law, allows them to go to collect signatures. Colleague Pahor proposed or that a constitutional court be included in the game and that this would cause that time calvary, that in our society all those who mean something and mean nothing would be included in the story deleted. Despite the fact that, as an intention, it is always forgotten that we had a referendum on 4.4.2004. On the subject of self-exposure, on the topic of people who, according to the Slovenian National Parties, wanted to defile our country. Not just the state, but citizens and citizens. And that over 95% of the people in this country have said that they do not agree with the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Liberal Democracy, the United List, the DeSUS in dealing with this issue. 95% said they disagreed with this method, i.e. the method of awarding, in material form or in the least, which was indirectly, of course, in obtaining citizenship. According to our assessment, it is very confusing and wrong again to bring the story of the deleted into the political life of the Republic of Slovenia, especially at the moment of the elections. And again in a few days, probably in a few minutes, someone from the Liberal Democracy, the United List, and against the word, you're taking advantage of those wiped out for the election campaign. But who takes advantage of the story of self-exposure? The answer is in the palm of the hand, all the decisions made today, both by the parent working body and by the proposal of the President of the National Assembly and the whole event so far, indicating that you are always dragging the story into Slovenia, always drawing it again. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, of course, what we have already said several times, there was no deletion. Anyone who wanted to, in our country, has settled the status of anyone who didn't want to, has not settled this status. For that or another reason. But as a rule, people didn't settle their status, so, [[Can I have a little ear?]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u147	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u148	As a rule, they did not settle their status because they did not believe in our country because they did not believe in the Republic of Slovenia. But it is true that these people today probably believe in the United List and Liberal Democracy. According to our assessment, the sin that we are committing is both time- and most important, substantively, so great that this national assembly should choose a different direction of salvation. In the National Party we see at this moment two possible routes which would of course be in accordance with Slovenian legislation. One of these would be longer, although my assessment is less necessary, that is, allowing promoters or applicants to collect signatures to begin collecting signatures. In the referendum, we would have had the same result as we had in 4.4.2004; so the vast majority of Slovenian citizens would say, "No, I do not agree with the way in which the ruling parties propose it." This is also acceptable, according to the National Party's assessment. However, it would be far more acceptable for this national assembly, especially the ruling majority, to be aware of its failures ahead of time. This error was simply confirmed by the Constitutional Court decision, dated 26.2.2004, which states that the system law to which my speech now relates is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. But, of course, the ignorance of the Liberal Democracy and the United List and my assessment of the ignorance of DeSUS led to a mistake that you did not foresee. This is that in the second reading you have adopted a law without supplementing it and cannot be amended in the third reading. In the National Party, we estimate that your work has been very short-term and the consequences are now in the initiative, in further reflection and in all that will follow in the coming days. But, of course, there is another way, which would indeed require some wisdom, some strength and, above all, credibility, which I do not attribute to you, is to admit your mistake and today say that, at the possible debate of the third reading of the system law, they will oppose the bill's proposal in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. In short, you will not support a law that is contrary to the Constitution. It is true that this will be difficult because you have proposed this law yourself; so you will have to finally admit to yourself what you did not want to admit in the last six months that your way of saving is wrong. If, within the framework of the National Party, we receive a guarantee from the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS that, at least this time, you will respect the highest decision of the Constitutional Court or the history of the Republic of Slovenia and the future of the Republic of Slovenia, we are in the National Party for this national assembly to meet with the final vote. On the third reading, we throw the law and it is only normal for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a new law reflecting the referendum will, as stated in 4.4.2004, the will of 95% of citizens and citizens attending the referendum said that it did not agree with the award of the self-exterminations and that you would take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court. According to our assessment, this would, of course, be the wisest path, the cheapest path, the easiest path and the most correct path. But it is true that this path will cost you your own credibility by admitting that you have been making a deliberate mistake since the very beginning of the story of self - erased. In the National Party, we expect you to define yourself before this initiative or offer, because of this, of course, as I said earlier, would reduce the total calvary. If you do not do so by the representatives of the ruling parties, we will, of course, defend the other path in the National Party, which is really a little less favourable, but to please all those who have submitted a referendum and a human initiative under the law. [[In noodles]] "request for signature collection" and in this way tried again to tell the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the State of the Republic of Slovenia does not agree with this type of resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I suggest we don't have a discussion. Firstly, there is no controversy in the presentation of views from the views of other groups of Members. Secondly, we stick to the subject of the debate, this is a proposal for a decision, not a discussion on the generally deleted. Any of the other parliamentary groups want a word? Comrade Janez Janša, SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, although we are discussing the agenda item which is not on the agenda. When we get the agenda, and still today has not been changed, there is a law on third reading on this agenda that we are not currently discussing because we cannot discuss because the third reading cannot start because a referendum initiative has been tabled. This morning, the Internal Policy Committee met and proposed instead of this item on the agenda, we did not include it. With a spell on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, there is now a debate on the agenda item, which is not on the agenda; it is said, procedurally in our opinion, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, there are no conditions for us to talk about it. Also, if we ignore this and go to the content of the proposed decision, there is no legal or constitutional basis for the State assembly to decide as proposed. Here, some political majority is transformed by means of their voting machine into a court of law. It assumes jurisdiction, which only a constitutional court has after the constitution; and this happens for the first time, fortunately for the first time, but unfortunately it does. Never before has the National Assembly in Slovenia taken such a decision, which, under the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act, is within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. The political majority, the government majority, has put the procedure on the table. Here they are to turn themselves into one who will judge whether the referendum initiative is in accordance with the Constitution or not, and then let those who have given the initiative, if they are not satisfied, only appeal to the Constitutional Court. I think you've changed things a little bit around here. If it were as you imagined in this motion for a decision, then the Constitutional Court would not need it. Why, though, if we have a power coalition here, which knows what is constitutional and what is unconstitutional, and so judge; but let him who is injured then complain. I think, well, the spirit of another time has prevailed, which has long since been behind us, when there was also a political organization, which was both a prosecutor and a judge, and which, in many cases, performed in the same way as the current government coalition. Well, Mr President, I have been looking at Mr Lavrinz for five minutes now, which has been continuing the debate since morning. He obviously couldn't say everything at the board meeting, and now he's doing it. I suggest I step back, wait for him to finish this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u151	There's no controversy from the bench to the speaker. You have the right to remain calm.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u152	I'm just fighting for the right to a word I don't have.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u153	Please, if you can continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u154	So not only is a "vote roller" used by a political majority, but it is also impossible to have a proper debate, which is indeed beyond all the standards of cultural behaviour. And what is stated here as an argument for violating, for the first time, the business procedure and, for the second time, to go beyond the constitutional or legal basis on the proposal of such a decision. The instigator of the referendum is clearly abusing the procedure. Those who have tabled the referendum initiative are clearly taking advantage of some legal option in our system. To take advantage of the opportunity offered by the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and given by the Constitution. This is the case for those who have taken the initiative. They filed it in accordance with the law, the competent authorities checked the signatures, said there were enough, more than enough, three times as many as necessary. All the other criteria are met, but here the political majority, which assumes the powers of the Constitutional Court, says that this initiative is unconstitutional because they think that the initiators abuse the procedure. This term cannot be in an exact legal sense. If someone has taken the initiative in accordance with the law, they have fulfilled all the conditions, then this cannot be an abuse. It is abuse if someone exploits the political majority he has in the National Assembly to prevent such an initiative by means of a voting machine. This is an abuse of voting power, and this is not the first time today. And to write something like this, to read to the initiators of a referendum of some impure purpose and on this basis to suggest that the initiative is rejected, to take the authority that only the Constitutional Court has in our constitutional order is a big step across the permissible. But apparently there are no criteria here anymore. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the motives must be that the political majority does this extremely strongly. And obviously, not only does he hold what we have been talking about so far, but there must be an extremely strong combination of some motives in the background, which even after a far-reaching absolute majority of the referendum rejected a similar law, with which you tried similarly, unselectively to settle this problem so that it still persists in a similar solution. Even after this referendum, when the Ministry of the Interior without a legal basis, without a selection of decisions, and when these decisions are returned in many cases, this has not been studied by anyone. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the leadership of Mr Rope and the Ministry of Interior, under the leadership of Mr Bohinc, issue decisions to the so-called deleted, which you have claimed have lived here since 1992, which are no longer in Slovenia, you send decisions to the streets that are no longer in existence, to people who have long since been dead. And you have argued in this debate that it is all those who have lived here ever since 1992 and that they have suffered a great injustice. If that were true, then the decision would not have returned to you and would not have hidden this information, to the question put by my fellow Member, and the deadlines have long expired, there is still no answer. There's still no answer. We've already written the E.R. and there's still no answer! Because you're hiding this information, it goes against what you said in this law's argument. Therefore, in the background of this work, through or under which the Rules of Procedure are violated, the law is violated, the Constitution is violated, there is a strong claim for so-called deleted, without trying to distinguish those justified from unjustifiable cases. While this same government coalition for its own citizens makes the pines a little bit. You have not called for any extraordinary meeting for the benefit of your own citizens - for the deleted three. You pushed this point into the agenda today, even though it wasn't foreseen at all. And a strong commitment to allow high compensation claims to be lodged, a strong commitment to allow the payment requirements to be made between those pensions received by former employees of the SFRJ authorities in the Republic of Serbia or Serbia and during the pension they would have paid here if they had a permanent residence. This is one of the main motives of this group who want a permanent residence back. The difference between the pension received by someone in Banja Luka and between the pension he would receive in Slovenia is 1:10. Calculate it, add it up, and you'll get billions. And you make it possible to file such claims. An agreement on the legacy of the SFRY has been ratified, which allows this, and so far the government has only escaped when we have asked these questions, things are perfectly clear here. If we're talking about purposes, if you're talking about purposes, we'd say something about the additional purposes that we see in this strong commitment to the so-called deleted. There is certainly also some motive that extends to the common alliance - opposition to Slovenian independence in some. Here is a strong motive, which dates back to the time when it was voted against together against the real measures of Slovenian independence, while those who today do not receive a veteran status from your minister when they fought for this country. Today it is only in the regional organization - if anyone has read the latest Veteran, published associations or associations of veterans of war for Slovenia - only in the regional organization of veterans Gornja Radgon has 200 pending applications for long time to grant veteran status because there is a macho relationship. When it comes to eraseds, of course, the benevolent squared! And it is clear that this strong sting to resolve the matter in any case is still in this mandate and that it is unselectively granted the status of permanent residence for the return, which is a fundamental condition for obtaining citizenship, also lies in the motive for increasing the quota of some voters of the parties in power. No matter how much it costs those who pay taxes in this country. On the one hand, we listen to the Minister of Education first, that there is no money for warm lunches in high schools, that there is no money and that school fees should be introduced - or whatever you call it - at the university and so on. Somewhere else, when it comes to domestics and citizens of this country, nothing. We expected that we would no longer talk about this in this mandate, that the brain would also turn into government palaces, that it would simply wait a few months before the elections, so that a new national assembly would then be burdened by these pre-election pressures would make some smart decision. Now it's obviously not capable of a ruling coalition. She's not capable. There was no real readiness when we proposed a constitutional law or a constitutional solution. In every way, the pressure is bad, for Slovenia the harmful, anti-Slovenian, non-selective decision, which has fortunately now been settled by a referendum initiative and you are reading this referendum initiative some bad intentions or abuse of procedure. I end by expressing my firm belief that the referendum initiative is perfectly fine, that such belief was also a large number or unfortunately a minority, but still a large number of members of the internal policy committee this morning, that such belief is in the vast majority also in the Slovenian public and that the abuse of the procedure is what is being done now that the item is being considered, which is not on the agenda, and when it is proposed to vote on a decision that does not have a legal and constitutional basis. We have nothing to vote on on such a decision, nor should we be in the debate or vote, so that if you take it, you will take it yourself and then make such a shameful decision yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u155	Before I give the floor forward, I just have to make it very clear once again to the National Assembly that the Business Commission has adopted the interpretation of paragraph 64 of the Rules of Procedure: "In the event that a draft law is included on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly, on which an initiative or a request for an invitation to tender for a preliminary legislative referendum is presented, the National Assembly shall, before the meeting, proceed to the consideration of the draft law as a preliminary question at the meeting, carry out all the proceedings referred to in Articles 15 and 16 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative." Comrade Podobnik wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u156	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President. In the Slovenian People's Party in the Group, we estimate that the initiative of the Group of Citizens and Citizens to call the previous legislative referendum has been prepared in accordance with the applicable articles of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. It contains and contains a request with a clear question and the request is also duly reasoned. In our opinion, the President of the National Assembly could call a deadline for the collection of signatures. This has not happened and today we have for the first time before us a procedure which is not provided for by the law on referendum and human initiative, nor is there any basis for this procedure in the constitution. We will not support this decision in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The following are the reasons that lead us to do so. If we follow the points justifying the proposal of this Decision, it must be said, not for the first time, that the misinterpretation of the majority in the national assembly, which says that it is simple, despite assessing that the issue is not clear, the proposers of the initiative will not call for the issue to be clearly written. The National Assembly has quite some experience with the fact that, through the proposalers, even at times they sat with them, even the legislative and legal services, and others helped them that the issue was clearly recorded and, subsequently, the National Assembly, as proposed by the President of the National Assembly, arranged this and signed or even called for a referendum. Therefore, the argument: the National Assembly of Proponents of the Initiative will not call for a clearer definition of the issue, as the content of the explanation shows that the proposers of the initiative do not favour the solutions of the law and believe that the adoption of the law in the proposed text could have extensive and long-term consequences." For such a claim, the majority in the National Assembly has no basis in the legislation in force, which is a completely arbitrary interpretation of the law in force. The National Assembly has no jurisdiction to determine that. First of all, I should call on the applicants to find that the question is not clear that a decision should be drawn up and then proposers for the referendum should formulate the issue more clearly. That's the first one. Second. The reasons for this decision state that one of the questions is inappropriate because they propose the following question: "Do you agree with regulating the status deleted in the manner prescribed by the law? And then one of the points is: "Those persons who have obviously acted in contravention of the values protected by criminal law in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia?" There is no justification in which this question is either unconstitutional or incorrect. This is an outstanding issue of this law. The law can implement the Constitutional Court's decision in a variety of ways, one possibility is this and the Referendum and People's Initiative Act, literally giving the referendum's candidates the opportunity to ask the voters and voters a question. The questions were raised quite correctly. Then the final argument is why we will not support this proposal for a decision. In our view, this is a legal rejection argument. Absolutely incorrect. It's an abuse of procedure that's not in honor of the National Assembly. We are also afraid that this formulation will be made at once, in a few months or a few weeks' time, in some subsequent decision of the Constitutional Court. Colleagues and colleagues, I have warned you two months ago that it is incorrect for the State Assembly, with the majority of those present to be arbitrary, to think politically that the issue was an abuse of the referendum institute with a view to delaying the legislative procedure. You refer to this and this Constitutional Court is summed up as a fact and therefore enters as a Constitutional Court and says the following possible ways. There has been a very dangerous dispute between the political majority and the Constitutional Court, and this threshold is bad for the Constitutional Court and the National Assembly. Now, there's something else that's happened. Today, the majority of the National Assembly will adopt the following position: "At the same time, the National Assembly points out that the applicable provisions of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative allow for continuous new initiatives and thus prevent the National Assembly from taking a decision on the law." And the following sentence: "This is why the National Assembly considers that in each case initiatives with a similar content have the right to make a final decision on the law immediately after rejecting the referendum." It's an abuse of procedure. This is a legally unsustainable interpretation. I have not heard such an interpretation in my 12 years as a member of the National Assembly. We know exactly who and by what procedure the law can explain. By the way, what happened? The first sentence says, "We find that the existing provisions of the law allow for continuous new initiatives and thus prevent the National Assembly from taking a decision on the law". And then there's a sentence that makes a mandatory interpretation of the law. This is a legally unacceptable path and should not have a place in this explanation. It's not an honor to the National Assembly. It is not an honor for the legal services that helped with this text. I am also convinced that the legislative and legal service did not write this text; if it is, today we should call and warn us about such a shadow of work. This interpretation does not belong to this decision, which will now go to the Constitutional Court. But most of all, I'm worried about the next time. In such a case, the instigators shall be provided with judicial protection. Pursuant to Article 15, paragraph 3, of the Act, it is permissible to submit an application for a test of the decision of the national assembly in order not to call for a referendum. Let's just say that's what's gonna happen. The Constitutional Court will then decide something. I'm afraid the previous interpretation I read will also be given a place in this explanation of the Constitutional Court. This will be a disaster for the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed decision will by no means be supported by the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u157	Thank you very much. My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I speak on behalf of most Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Everyone in this hall, as well as in public, knows that the contents of the solutions to the law on deleted views are different. I suggest, given that we have already explained all these views a number of times, that we are not talking about it today. And I agree with the President as well as with other debaters who say not to talk about it, because we are really not going to say anything new. I don't think I'm gonna talk about it myself. This is really not the content of today's debate. Second. I believe that we all know that there are different views as to whether the adoption of a law is necessary or not at all, and that some of us think that it would also be right in this case to respect the requirements made several times in the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the fact that so many and so many thousands of people of the Republic of Slovenia are in a position where their legal status is not regulated to do so in due course of time. Many feel otherwise and would do anything to prevent the law from being adopted in this context at the next meeting until the end of this term. This has also been said in today’s debate on the parent’s working body. And if I may comment, I hear there's been a new referendum initiative that just confirms it for me, not anything else. There are expectations and criticisms about why we cannot reach consensus. However, consensus is understood by the need to agree to any minority request in this National Assembly. Thus, consensus cannot be demanded and cannot be reached if it is assumed that we have to take decisions that are contrary to the findings of the Constitutional Court and that we must adopt a constitutional law so that a later constitutional assessment of these unconstitutional decisions is not possible. This is one approach to the law and it is right to make it clear. That's why, look, there's an argument being used, and I'm not dealing with anyone, but I'm just saying how I think of it as exactly what someone in public thinks about it. It is calmly said, 95% of citizens and citizens think so, say and remain alive. Why? Because no one is willing to tell the public that this is a lie. That's 95.5% of the good 30% who came to determine. Together, it's about 28%. And I'm not saying what the other 72% think, because I don't know, they didn't come, and they didn't say anything. But it's not possible to say that 95% of them think one thing, because just so many and so many others didn't make up their minds at all. It is also difficult to speak very decisively about what is consistent and what is not in line with the Constitutional Court decision. But I am moving on to a question that I think its content is necessary today for us to decide on. The question is therefore a request for a referendum, a third requirement for a referendum on the same law, with the same aim of finding that the content of the law is inadequate. Different questions, but with the same content or at least the same goal. Two of them have already rejected the Constitutional Court as an unconstitutional. The question is, what can we do this time? As some suggest, we can rediscover: whether to call for a referendum because a formal request for an appropriate number of signatories and that the question is raised is justified is given. I'm sure then someone else would have found the constitutionality of such a referendum, and we wouldn't have any of these crusts to trigger it. For I personally believe that the question of the constitutionality of such a referendum question undoubtedly exists. So if there is, we can choose a path that we have already tried several times to ask the proposers to collect signatures to tell us whether they really mean what they wrote. I must say that I believe that this time, when we are preparing the referendum question for the third time, and when we are very intensely talking about it for a year, it cannot be assumed that the ladies and ladies who signed the demands did not think seriously and do not know what they wrote. I believe them. And I have the right and the duty to evaluate what is written, not to question their seriousness. If I evaluate what is written, then I must say that they refer to the second indent of Article 18 which wishes or you are in favour of adopting such a law. Their explanation is: Please vote against it, because we must not adopt such a law. This is misleading for me because when it refers to marriage, it does not quote literally and correctly the solutions that are in marriage, but slightly adjust them, but if you invoke: or you want to adopt the law as it is written, then you must also quote the bad solution directly. And the third question, which is probably the most up-to-date today, is whether such a third initiative is very similar to the content, given with the aim of delaying the procedure and with the aim of impeding the decision of the Third reading State Assembly. I'm saying we can assume that. This is the third time that has been done in the context of two clear decisions of the Constitutional Court, many views of the people in this group have been communicated that they do not wish such a law, with such or similar content, to be adopted. And today's predictions are given in this direction. Therefore, I think that, sooner or later, the National Assembly must decide whether it will agree that the prisoner is a permanent new referendum; and thus, the prisoner of the fact that in the law, whatever it is, he cannot decide, and thus even the opponent of the law does not give the opportunity to bring his compliance with the Constitution before the Constitutional Court, but to allow it to be adopted first, but we all know that there are many who are not satisfied with the content: either it is too much or it is too little. And it is likely that none of us hope to claim that there will be many constitutional conflicts with this law before they will be. But the law will be passed and we will talk about content, not about whether we can accept it. And I must say that I would be happy if, colleagues and colleagues, were to be correct and ready to read the last decision of the Constitutional Court, which is precisely at the warnings of the National Assembly. For the last time, the National Assembly warned whether it was possible to repeat the permanent referendum requirements, whether the abuse of the procedure and the abuse of the referendum were possible. The Constitutional Court replied that, if it is possible to prevent the adoption of a law and thereby further prevent the implementation of a decision by a Constitutional Court requiring the adoption and elimination of an anti-constitutional situation, such an abuse is possible. And ladies and gentlemen, the one who has ever "sniffed" the law knows that the abuse of justice is not written in law. There's a right in the law. The abuse of justice exists when this right is misused in such a way as to prevent others who have a right to exercise their right. It's a complicated legal institute, but it does exist. No one can predict in advance how the Constitutional Court will evaluate and assess it, but the possibility of abuse of existence is undoubtedly here because the National Assembly cannot take a decision. And we all know, and it is only right to say it again, if we follow the logic of the decision so far, then there is no solution under the existing law. Since we would be scheduled for a meeting of the National Assembly, and 30 days earlier we would place a agenda item, third reading at the meeting. A few days before the meeting, we would have received signatures with an initiative to call for a referendum. We would have found that this is the fourth, fifth, sixth, signatures collected and, in the opinion of some, we should have been asked to be told whether they meant seriously by signatures and by demand. Then, according to these same ones, we should find that they did not mean it, but that we should ask them whether they meant it, from the Constitutional Court. I would have passed the deadline for the implementation and adoption of this law at this meeting and, therefore, after the decision of the Constitutional Court, which I hope to assume in such a case, because it was twice given that a referendum was not possible against the decision of the Constitutional Court, I could have a new meeting of the National Assembly in 30 days. And a few days before the meeting, we'd have a new initiative. And we would do it to the end, to the end, even forever and never have a chance to make that decision. I think that this is the constant introduction of new initiatives for a referendum on the abuse of law, the abuse of justice, and that it prevents the national assembly from making a decision. Now we must decide on the two options we have: or to try to move forward from this situation and the Constitutional Court has shown us this possibility in its last decision. He said that if you decide for yourself that this is an abuse, so that you cannot adopt the law, you, or the President of the National Assembly, decide not to sign the referendum. And then those who think you've done the wrong thing will go to the Constitutional Court. While we have considered this issue, I admit that there have been different views as to whether this decision or this referral to the Constitutional Court gives us the right to decide at the same time in the third reading. However, a patient common opinion prevailed: we cannot say for sure, let us wait for 8 days, for the appeal, but let us warn the Constitutional Court that if we always do so in the future, we are back in the vicious circle because it will always wait for the appeal and we will never be able to decide in the third hearing. That is why, in my opinion, we have asked the Constitutional Court entirely correctly, or in further cases, if this were to happen again, we only have no right to prevent the abuse of the law, to take a decision in the third reading as well. This is one way, we have decided for it; it comes from a clear explanation of the Constitutional Court, it is legally possible. If it is finally confirmed, the Constitutional Court will say. Another way, ladies and gentlemen, is to conclude that a law such as this is uncomplicated and that it does not allow for the work of the National Assembly and its amendment. But we all know that we have been trying this for four years, we all know that there is no two-thirds willingness in this National Assembly to change the dot or the comma in this law, but some principles, because it is the interest of the minority to prevent the work of the National Assembly when it does not want most of them to adopt a law. And here we are prisoners, no matter who will ever be in the ruling coalition. That's why I think we need to know that we just can't do it this way. Then all we have to do is give to the Constitutional Court, who wants to, a constitutional opinion that a simple law does not comply with the Constitution because it prevents the work of the National Assembly. But things are legal, I'd say, very complicated. I am simply saying that the proposal for a decision we have drawn up is not the only one that can be corrected; it could also be different, even as proposed by the President. However, the one we have adopted on the Committee is also correct and possible. And I think it is wise to take it so that half a step further in the direction of solving these situations, in which we are involved in the law and referendum, can come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Collegiate Zupan, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. She has the word of her colleague Krebs, on behalf of the LDS Club. She's a colleague of Zupanov's first.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The decision, as proposed by the three ruling coalition groups and is very hospitable and in its text, states that the National Assembly considers that the request for a preliminary legislative referendum in relation to the so-called Systemic Law, if reduced, of deleted ones constitutes an unjustified and deliberate delay in the adoption of the bill, since it is a matter of repeating the same or similar content as that of previous referendum initiatives on this proposal of law, which shows the purpose of delaying the legislative procedure and preventing the adoption of legislation by the National Assembly from enforcing the decision of the Constitutional Court, thereby rendering the Institute of Referendum unconstitutional use of such a decision in the New Slovenia Group. The referendum is the highest and most democratic way to decide. And if it is in accordance with constitutional and legal provisions, it cannot be an abuse. You are giving us delays and conjecture and thus abuse of the institute of the initiative to call for a previous legislative referendum. You are in violation of the Constitution, and you suspect that with ever-increasing initiatives, the National Assembly will prevent you from fulfilling your legislative role and the obligation to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. Such allegations and suspicions, what will happen and if they happen, are not worthy of a serious legislator, but they clearly show that the position is one that obstructs and impedes procedures that are in accordance with the law and the Constitution. Why are you afraid of the referendum if you feel that the solutions for deleted are good and appropriate? In the course of the elections, the electorate does not give formal, but not substantive, opinion to its representatives for decision-making and electoral success, but it does not impose on them the responsibility and the decision to achieve their political objectives without compromise by means of their voting power in the National Assembly, irrespective of the consequences. And so-called deleted are one of such objectives, and the reference to the absolute importance of abstract human rights is extremely inappropriate, as they are referred to by those who do not want to hear about abuses in the ten-year dictatorship. Such insistence on political majority in trenches that do not allow smart consensus suggests that private interests and capital parties, if I consider DeSUS here, want to prove that they are willing to enforce old solidarity values for some groups, even though we have been living in a new country that is supposed to be democratic for decades. And the very problem of democratic relations and fair co-decision is still very important in shaping interdependence in Europe, which the current majority will have to learn - to solve problems differently than it has been used to. The question of voter participation is also important in this case and a referendum, which was one of such forms. While the political majority argued that it was unnecessary and called on citizens and citizens from the very tops not to attend, a strong participation and result, when more than 95% of those questioned replied against, we can also refer to various surveys that have been carried out and have had about the same result, say much and should be responsible as good listeners, which comes to democratic societies, prepare solutions that are in line with national will or should wait for solutions if they consider that there is no possibility of receiving. We cannot attribute such a purpose to the proposed decision, and we will therefore reject it in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to my colleague Krebs, who will present the position of the LDS Club, she has used this opportunity to give her performance in writing and asks that she is an integral part of the minutes or magnetogram, and she will only briefly summarise the points. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it is late Friday afternoon and the arguments as usual in this topic not only that they have never stumbled upon the open ears, but I think it makes no sense that they are in very professional form, as they must be, I pass on in this place. Just a summary. The Constitutional Court has stated that when it comes to the obvious delay and obstruction of the legislative procedure, this is part of the national assembly, the President of the National Assembly or the National Assembly may decide not to sign the referendum. And it is more than evident, dear colleagues and colleagues, that this is a delay, the only purpose of which is to prevent the execution of all decisions of the Constitutional Court in relation to the deleted. Why can we say that? We have reason to suspect, not only that the representatives of the opposition parties of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia at press conferences have repeatedly reported that they would prevent the adoption of legislation on the subject of deleted. That's one. And second, of course, the same initiators are taking initiatives to call for a previous legislative referendum. The first initiative on behalf of the initiators, Mr Janez Janša and Dr Andrej Bajuk, the second initiative - by the way, the first initiative of the State Assembly, of course, assessed that it was unconstitutional, sent to the Constitutional Court, which has given us the impression; this is an unconstitutional first initiative. The second initiative of the representative of the initiators, named Mr Janez Janša and Dr Andrej Bajuk, is the same. The National Assembly discusses hours and hours, goes to the Constitutional Court - found to be unconstitutional. And today, of course, I fear that the chivalry of the primordial flags of Mr Janša and Bajuk is being sent as a first-signed instigator, a member of his youth, who is a representative of the initiators. We are deciding on this initiative today. And the fourth initiative is already in place, I think, as Mr Branko Grims is a representative of the initiators, I think your close professional associate. However, Members and Members who are bound by the Constitution to legislate, to be limited in this right, to feel abused and not least to say that we are also assessing the abuse of referendum law and the discreditation of the referendum; and all of this with one purpose, as you have repeatedly stressed, is to prevent the adoption of the law. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia has therefore decided to support the decision proposed by its mother's working body after a careful examination of the material or the proposal for a decision sent to the national assembly by the President of the National Assembly. In it, the President of the National Assembly also made it clear that the initiative meant unwarranted and deliberate delaying or impeding the adoption of a law by which the National Assembly would have to enforce a decision by the Constitutional Court, but the Club of Members assessed that the proposal submitted by the President of the National Assembly represented a longer than possible route, and therefore decided on a shorter one, which, against the decision of the National Assembly, still allowed for judicial protection or an appeal by representatives and initiators to the Constitutional Court, and even if you had overlooked, the mother's working body had adopted a second decision today and undertook to consider the third consideration of the bill only after the Constitutional Court had ruled today in the National Assembly. Thank you very much. Written debate on the proposal for a decision on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.02.1992 [[EPA 1016-III]] . Representative of the initiators, Sandra Letica, a member of the junior SDS political party, whose representatives have already submitted two initiatives to the System Act on Deleted. On 17 May 2004, a call for a preliminary legislative referendum was submitted to the National Assembly for an initiative by voters and voters to collect signatures to apply for the invitation to tender for a preliminary legislative referendum in respect of that law. At the referendum, voters and voters would ask whether they agree to regulate the status deleted in the manner prescribed by the law. They would therefore be asked whether they agree that the law allows applications to be submitted for re-establishment a year after its entry into force and that it allows the exercise of the status for re-entry in a non-selective manner - including persons who have not even tried to make use of all legal possibilities for regulating their status during the period following the independence of Slovenia; persons who have not responded within the time limit to the call by the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia for a transition from the JLA or the composition of the Federal authorities of the SFRJ; persons who have apparently acted contrary to the values protected by the criminal law of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the provisions of Article 4(1) of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The referendum question also concerns the payment of compensations by allowing for payment of unlimitedly high compensations, as the maximum amount for payment of compensation in absolute terms is not fixed. First of all, we would like to say that the referendum issue is misleading because it does not summarize the solutions contained in the law. For example. With regard to the payment of damages, the text of the question does not summarise the solutions proposed in the draft law in a comprehensive and precise manner. The amount of damage in the provisions of this Chapter is indeed not limited to the amount, but the solutions contain criteria for limiting damage by content. The question of the return of status to persons who have acted contrary to the values protected by the criminal law of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the provisions of Article 4(1) of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic Charter on Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia is inconclusive, since the law provides that the competent authority of a foreigner shall refuse to grant permanent residence permits if, after 25.6.1991, he has been legally convicted of the offence of the fifteenth and sixteenth chapters of the SFRJ Criminal Law, directed against the Republic of Slovenia or other values which are protected by the criminal law of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the provisions of Article 4(1) of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia. We can conclude from this that the proponents have drawn up misleading questions with the intention of presenting the solutions contained in the system law to the electorate and the electorate in a timely manner and, on the other hand, the content of the explanation shows that the proponents of the initiative do not favour and oppose it. It also points out that the legal service considers the issue to be largely misleading and unclear, since it is not sufficiently precise in relation to the text of the proposed law to which it relates and contrary to the purpose of the explanatory statement. In this case, the National Assembly should, under the procedure referred to in Article 15 of the ZRLI [[Definition of the clarity of the referendum question]] Ask the proposers to redefine unclear and misleading issues. We estimate that the call to correct them would not produce a result, as they cannot be recast in accordance with the ZRLI for the purpose of the explanation, and therefore we do not think that it is necessary for the national assembly to ask the applicants to define the question more clearly. The initiative put forward in the event of this ambiguity means an unjustified and deliberate delay in the adoption of the bill, as it is a reasonable repetition of the arguments already presented in previous referendum initiatives already assessed by the Constitutional Court in most cases as unconstitutional [[Decision No 1/2003/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to ……]] . The initiative therefore also shows the purpose of preventing the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision by adopting the law to which the initiative relates. The referendum question re-uses the term “status” in the context of “to regulate the status of these persons”, which has already been used in one of the previous referendum issues. The instigators are the same as the predecessors - the initiative of the SDS and NSI political parties, Janez Janša and Andrej Bajuk, signed by the 3500 voters and voters of 2.2.2004, and the same actors and groups of Members of the SDS and NSI of 3.3.2004 - have based their proposal on the inadequacy of the proposed legal solutions, since: 1) arrangements must be adopted to take account of the principles of natural law, the principles of equality before the law and general interest; 2) those who have, in accordance with the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and the constitutional law for its implementation, cannot be obliged to pay damages to those who have not settled their status in a timely manner; 3) the status for the latter cannot be regulated by those who have not responded to the call of the RS Presidency to crossover from the JLA; 4) because the adoption of the law in the context of high-level and long-term consequences of the international economy in Slovenia. Therefore, the National Assembly is obliged to assess and reject this initiative, and any subsequent referendum initiative with analog content, in particular in this respect, as such, as it must not allow the continuation of the procedure with such referendum initiatives, the purpose of which is solely to suspend the adoption of the necessary legislation on a procedural basis, i.e. such as the absence of which constitutes an anti-constitutional consequence due to the continuation of the anti-constitutional situation which would have abolished the adoption of the law. This conduct of the National Assembly is not clear from the provisions of the ZRLI, but has already been judged by the Constitutional Court in its decision No. U-II-3/03-12 of 22.12.2003, when explained, inter alia [[Recital 21]] that the referendum is not admissible if it turns out that the purpose of the referendum is to postpone or delay the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision. Even in decision U-II-3/04, the Constitutional Court does not rule out the possibility that both the preliminary and the subsequent legislative referendum may be applied for non-constitutional purposes [[e.g. by introducing new and new initiatives with a view to delaying the legislative procedure for the adoption of a specific law, which is opposed by the initiators]] . Therefore, the Constitutional Court considers that, should the National Assembly have identified such objectives of the initiator, it should have prevented the call for a referendum within the scope of the options offered by the ZRLI. In such a case, the instigators shall be provided with judicial protection. On the basis of Article 15, paragraph 3, of the ZRLI, it is permissible to submit an application for an examination of the decision of the national assembly in order not to call for a referendum. The LDS Club decided to take such a step after a careful examination of the material or. a proposal for a decision sent to the national assembly by the President of the National Assembly for its decision. In that opinion, the President of the National Assembly made it clear that the initiative entails unjustified and deliberate delaying or impeding the adoption of a law by which the National Assembly should enforce Constitutional Court decision No. U-II-3/04. However, the parliamentary club assessed that the proposal submitted by the President of the National Assembly represented longer than possible and therefore decided on a shorter one and that the decision of the National Assembly was still subject to judicial protection or. a complaint to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u163	That is how we heard the views of the groups of Members. The only thing he signed up for was his colleague, Petty Officer. You want a word? No, no, no. Then I'll close the debate. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. I've closed the debate. You're probably applying for an explanation of your vote. Well, I asked if anyone else wanted to, no one raised their hand. I concluded the debate, I'm sorry, maybe someone wasn't paying attention, but I asked, someone else wants a word and I'm closing the debate. Explanation of voice. Let's go in one order. Do you have a procedural proposal? A voice explanation, that's possible. Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u164	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General. Indeed, we are at a time when it has actually been a month and a half since the referendum voted on the first part of the decision of the Constitutional Court or on the law of enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court. Today, of course, we have before us a system law on the decision of the Constitutional Court, where the National Assembly is trying to make itself an arbitrator today and not leave this decision to the Constitutional Court. The Slovenian People's Party's Group cannot and does not want to participate in such a vote, particularly in the fact that in each new attempt, the majority in the National Assembly puts forward the appropriate text with their explanations to the Constitutional Court, which, of course, will benefit the ruling majority in the next step. Such conduct, following the assessment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, constitutes a grave adjustment to the legal standards and legal criteria of this country's daily policy. Therefore, we do not want to participate in the vote in the parliamentary group and, of course, we will leave the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u165	Good. We will probably hear similar arguments now with colleague Tsukati and Tiny. First of all, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Let me also announce obstruction on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. The National Assembly owns a constitution, of course, at the request of the ruling coalition, to decide whether an initiative is acceptable or not. This denies the fundamental right, the right to a referendum. This is a violation of the Constitution and we cannot participate in such matters. There's a lot of nonsense going on. The National Assembly assumes the function of the Constitutional Court to decide on constitutional judgments and, on the other hand, the Constitutional Court adopts laws and requires them to be adopted in the National Assembly and the Executive. This is a pure transformation of institutions in Slovenia due to the imposition of the ruling elite, going past the constitution, past the laws, such a path is not the right one. In doing so, Nova Slovenija will not participate, so she will not take part in the vote on this decision and announces the obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u167	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u168	Thank you. We're also predicting obstruction at this point. Let me explain. First of all, because it's clearly in violation of the rules of procedure. The question of the referendum was not adopted on the agenda anywhere. If they were so respectful of the Rules of Procedure, they would convene an extraordinary meeting with signatures, as the Rules of Procedure permit. And yet, for the first time, we've broken it in the last case, and it shows everything -- it's becoming routine. Secondly, we are against it because it is a proposed decision that has no basis in marriage. The Law on Referendum and People's Initiative in Article 16 states: "If the Council of State considers that the content of the request for a referendum is contrary to the Constitution, or that by delaying the adoption or enforcement of the law or by rejecting the law there may be unconstitutional consequences, it requires that the Constitutional Court decide." However, it is suggested that the decision to ban it at this time should not be forwarded to the Constitutional Court for review, but rather to prohibit the referendum that citizens want. You refer to the explanation of the Constitutional Court. No explanation can clearly change the law. There is no explanation that could change such a clear dictatorship that is here! The proposal that it is is against the law. I once heard an experienced criminal, a mercenary for these things, who said that the first time you kill a man, he squeezes you in the throat, the second time it's easier, the third time it's routine. Gentlemen. We're going to do this today for the first time murder of democracy. To the people, to the citizens who are given the right by the Constitution, who say that fundamental rights are citizens' rights and that we have the authority of the people - we will kill for the first time. By some impossible explanation, which says it's intentional stallion, for bad purposes. Tomorrow you will tell us, the opposition, that you must not speak to us because you have bad intentions. You'll say, because we don't know what you're thinking, we don't know what you're up to, but you have bad intentions, so you'll be quiet! For the first time, it's hard to kill democracy. It'll be easier next time. Third time, gentlemen, it'll be routine. There's a conflict here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u169	Time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u170	Forgiveness, there is never a time limit on explanation. Regarding today’s event, there has been some commotion of the national assembly and of the human initiative. And in this stubbornness, you see for yourself, you admit, people want to make that decision at the referendum. You say no, you don't decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u171	My friend Tsukati [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u172	Surely, if the national assembly wins this behemothing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u173	My friend Tsukati [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u174	It's over with democracy. [[...]] If the people won and the thing went to the referendum, as they wish, democracy would win.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u175	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u176	We're afraid of doing this, so we're leaving the National Assembly at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u177	Thank you. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u178	Your Honors are here! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I must say that we sincerely regret that you are not representatives of the ruling parties, of the Liberal Democracy, of the United List and of DeSUS, of the proposals based on the decision of the Constitutional Court of February, and in advance say that you will not support a system law contrary to the Constitution. This would, of course, save the whole of Slovenia all the trouble of repeating the story erased. In the Slovenian National Party, we fear that this self-written story of self-existence will continue with your work. And I am truly sorry, but also within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we are predicting obstruction because we do not want to take on the part of the responsibility that you attributed two, three and up to six years ago to the opposition if we want to debate this. That's not true! Ladies and gentlemen, we know the story of the Constitutional Court. We know the referendum outcome 4.4.2004. People have told us that they disagree with this type of rescue. But you always forget that you are not or do not want to be in the service of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Regardless of election participation, the fact is that the voter turnout in 95% of the voters who went to the polls told their story. In my opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should have the wisdom to take this into account and not to play the will of citizens and citizens in such a low way. You had the opportunity, but none of the political organisations that run this ruling policy took advantage of this opportunity to finally say it, and that is the end of the matter. That is why we are also predicting obstruction in the National Party, because we cannot participate in such a decision, in addition to the fact that we are also in breach of the law on referendum and human initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u179	Please, my fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u180	Thank you very much. So, I will support this proposal for a decision. However, I would like to say that I regret that the two key officials in this matter are doing a bad job or not doing their job. First of all, it's Minister Bohintz. He did not give an opinion on this matter and asks whether he does not have it, whether he is recalculated and does not want to take responsibility for any decision - and third - or perhaps not too busy with his fees and therefore does not have time for these things. Secondly, the president of the National Assembly - or rather, that he is not president of the National Assembly. Because if I were the president of the National Assembly, then we would not be in the situation we are in, but in line with what we have already heard today and what has been explicitly written in this case, I would have rejected this initiative myself. What can I conclude from such a course? That these two are obviously not in the interest of solving this problem. And to confirm the thesis that the deletion was not a technical error, but a carefully thought-out act. Otherwise, Minister Bohinc, who made a personal promise to tell who was involved, would have already done so. He does not want to do this, thereby protecting those responsible, and by repeating these discussions, he is directing attention elsewhere. What, then, can we think of this strong thirst between the two officials and the opposers of the solution who have left the hall at this time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u181	Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Now you don't have a word for it. We'll go to the vote. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision prepared by the labour force, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Is there nothing wrong with the voting devices? Can we make a decision? We're voting. The first vote was not successful. Next time I put it to the vote, I have to do it formally. We're voting. We'll vote in three in ten minutes. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u182	I propose that we vote for the third time and find out that the assembly is inconclusive and that we agree on when it will proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u183	I have to give you ten minutes by the book.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u184	Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u185	I have to give you ten minutes by the book. Ten minutes, five o'clock and ten minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u186	That's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u187	Five o'clock and ten minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-36.ana.u188	We'll vote and then I'll decide how to proceed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for the third time, I am putting forward a proposal for a decision. I'm making a motion for a decision, third time. We're voting. The National Assembly will continue its work on Tuesday at 9 a.m. I'm adjourning the session.
