ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Although the Internal Policy Committee will conclude its meeting at any time, at least so it must, because the work will continue with the National Assembly, I propose that we move on to the next 24th item of the agenda. Before this, I would like to remind you that some colleagues, or very rarely today, will be absent due to other obligations. These are colleagues: Battelli, Christmas, Celigoj, Kacin, Kangler, Lenko and Levič and colleague Roman Jakič for the beginning of the session. We're at 24. DOCTORS OF THE DAY - IT'S IN DESCRIPTION OF INTERVIEW OF THE WORK AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR HEALTH, DR. SPIRITA KEBRA. I welcome the Minister and his associates to the National Assembly Hall. As you know, a group of 15 Members and Members submitted the interpretation of the meeting. The first to be signed under interpolation is a colleague of mags. It's a trifle. May I ask you, Comrade Petty Officer, will you be the first to explain the interpretation? Please, the word is yours - on behalf of the proposer will be mag. A trifle explained, further explained the proposal for interpolation. Then we'll hear [[...]] [[Please, is there a problem? Is everything okay?]] Then he will also receive the floor of the Minister, representatives of the parliamentary groups, and then there are as many as 60 Members and Members for the debate. Please, Mr. Proposer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Dr. Keber's Minister of Health! In 2000, the ministers solemnly vowed to adhere to the Constitution, the laws, to work for the public good and to follow the conscience. You too, Mr. Minister, have sworn before this National Assembly. At the same time, you have sworn before the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The oath is not just a symbolic character. A ritual in beautiful festive clothes, flashes, lights and cameras, but a real commitment to citizens and citizens. This is subject to verification and today we are going to check this file because it's broken and that's what's happened. The fact that, during your term of office, people's trust in the health system has fallen to the lowest possible level. This is certainly the most worrying, since the relationship between the doctor and the patient is crucial for the success of the treatment. And that's what's broken. During this term of office, more affairs took place than during the whole period since 1945. The affairs were beginning, even more. You even created them yourself, inspired them, but you didn't solve the problems. During your ministry, the financial situation in the field of health has deteriorated tremendously. The health insurance deficit is already 38 billion dollars. This is due to unreasonable behaviour, abandonment of all measures, including necessary legislation, and spending financial resources without providing the necessary financial resources.This shows that the health insurance company will only pay two billion tolar interest this year. This will not go out of the minister's pocket, but out of the pockets of taxpayers. In addition, we can record deficits in health institutions worth 12 billion. At the end of your term, you leave a real financial disaster, a mess is a bowl, you crash into a referendum and you lose it. We proposed a law on health care and health insurance, which we then had to correct and reinstate. If we hurry so quickly with our tasks and work, the health system in Slovenia would be much better regulated. In response to the interpolation, you did not get enough depth, if you look at it, you did not give any exact data, no document and our facts and arguments. The answer to interpolation is a form without content, a type of claim that contradicts each other. Are the indications not even a reflection of the facts that we will show you? You wrote a bad article under which so-called all the ministers signed at the correspondence session without intruding a little. With this, all ministers have assumed their share of responsibility for what is happening in our country's health system. It's a government that wants to make an impression. She doesn't care about the content anyway. There's a fact that the citizens have noticed that, so they don't trust you anymore. You've lost confidence that can't be restored. In fact, you've already been intertwined by citizens. Minister Keber, your responses to the interpolation show that your advisors also have a lack of knowledge, they do not respect laws, legislation, particularly in the areas of finance, investment, health care and more. In addition, you are not prepared to accept responsibilities, both subjective and objective, due to all impropriety, violation of laws, mismanagement with public funds, for the inability of your team, with which you have nothing to show for four years. We were expecting your resignation. The public is relatively well aware of what is happening, of what you are doing. For help, you ordered duty on your own, that is to say, your ministry, to get rid of the shame. That's how you spend your money. So let's just go to the points, like we said. The first is the exchange of Trnovo Hospital for the skyscraper or sale or for spaces in the skyscraper. Trnovo Hospital was sold or replaced without a public invitation to tender. It was sold to the Municipality of Ljubljana. In the final phase, it also proved to be a violation of state property. Trnovo Hospital was sold at a price of 564 million 139 thousand tolars. In your response to the interpolation, Mr. Minister, you have stated that only the land on which the hospital is located was worth 7.4 million German marks, amounting to over 800 million tolars. So only land more than you actually sold the Trnovo hospital later. It follows that you have reduced state property by at least 25% of the recognised market price in the course of the exchange without necessity and thus damaged state property. On the other hand, the property of the city of Ljubljana was placed in the offer. There is a similar coalition in power as here, where the valuer valued this property to 162 million 200 thousand dollars. This price was inadvertently raised to 191 million tolars in the exchange agreement and beyond. So with what the minister offered to his own, he went down, with what he got he went up. And then he says the negotiations were tough. Only one goal is known in this story. The city of Ljubljana would like to reach this location, but it is not for social programmes, but for the implementation of the project of protected dwellings, which we also know from the elaborate project Zbiljski Gaj. If we could learn a little more about the plans of the former mayor of Vika Potočnik with the Trno hospital complex, we could know that the city had only protected apartments in mind. This is also reflected in the contract, the coalition contract concluded in the City of Ljubljana, with the city LDS and the United List. And it says exactly what's going to happen, what's going to happen, and that this project will, of course, bring decent profits to a lot of people, what we know. Your secretary-general, who is my colleague in the city council in Ljubljana, knew about all this before the signing of the Change Treaty between the City of Ljubljana and the Ministry of Health. You're saying that protected apartments require concessions. No, no, no. Protected dwellings are not subject to public service, they are not subject to concession relations. We saw that at the Zbiljega. That's the basis. In our country, it's enough that you have enough connections, enough capital, and you build something like that, and you make good money. If memory doesn't deceive me, even the foundation stone was laid by Minister Rob, but that's what it is, it's not necessary. The procedure for the sale or replacement was carried out without an invitation to tender. At least what citizens would expect, as well as what we expect Members of the National Assembly, is to publish a public offering. And I'm sure we'd get a lot more money. The statement that the City of Ljubljana has a preliminary right in some sense holds, but only has a preliminary right at the same price, then the city municipality can redeem it if it has the will and if it has the money to do so. As we see from the city budget, however, the City of Ljubljana had no money because it was deeply indebted, but if it went into anything, it caused a disaster. Simply, bids should be made as provided for in the Regulation on sales procedures and other forms of disposal of state property. And we'd get a few million more money in the state budget. In addition, no one has yet adopted the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the purchase of premises in Skyticnik for the offices of the Ministry of Health. Neither does the 2005 budget. You say that yourself in response to the interpolation on page 7. I can show you, you can read it. A plan of purchases and constructions that did not include business premises on Stefan 1. There was no such intention. So, Mr. Minister, the public interest would be legally guaranteed by auctioning and this would prove to you that the interest is nothing but how many protected apartments have become a hit in our country. And the offer doesn't reach demand. You, Mr. Minister, just pretend that there were no other interests, you made such an arrangement that only one buyer could be sold. And it appears, for in the background a privileged investor is expected, whom I suppose you know. If we look back just a few days ago - you can read in the media how much money Imos, Investment Construction, bought 2 and a half of the land from MOL in the same period. If you sold someone on the Ljubljana City Hall Square at such a price, you would definitely get behind the criminalist's door. The difference was made in price. I have a valuation report in my hands. The valuation report says the amount of 162 million 200 thousand tolars. As has been said, the Ministry of Health purchased this property, which was valued at a market price of 191 million. So for a substantial amount of money. The appreciater, who did this work for the Municipality of Ljubljana, estimated 487 square metres at 162 million 200 000, as a fair market price. If we subtract those square meters from the estimate of 461 square meters, which was the basis of the exchange agreement, we get to 153 million tolars. As it has been established, you have been placed in the city's territory as part of the common premises of all owners. With conscientious agreements and promises, you and the Secretary of State have agreed to a total of 191 million tolars. Let me tell you another stupid thing that's listed. You say you got real estate on this contract, so this property, which is possible right away to move in. Therefore, it is also subject to a market price. This fact is then clearly and easily contradicted. For you yourself are also stressing that you have drawn up the necessary plan and provided investment and maintenance work. And on the other hand, you claim that what you were selling wasn't useful, and you were referring to it as a liquidation value, which is not true. You admitted that you spent 11 million and a few tolars in 2003 for the reconstruction, again, I would stress. Why restore if the premises were usable immediately? Therefore, the market value is by no means the right approach to exchange and confirms the origin of the MOL, which calculated that for dentists it would receive a maximum of 162 million tolars. On the other hand, you have reduced the price of the national movement in terms of liquidation value. In this part it would also be very good for your Secretary of State, Mr Vrhunec, who is responsible for investments in health care, to answer how the exchange contract between Ljubljana and the Ministry of Health listed two different figures of 377 square metres, i.e. even lower square feet than before, and 461 square metres in nature. For the record, you actually bought 377 square meters. In this regard, there has also been a lot of talk in public life, where they have mentioned what all of this belongs to. So, common spaces, hallways and elevators on the first and second floors. Here you will have problems if you sell, as you yourself state, because the co-owners will require free access or cash compensation to usurp and reduce the useful value. In addition, the question is: What to do with when City Ljubljana did sell you something that was not hers. You also mention business spaces that you went shopping, and you know exactly what you're saying, and because we've already shown you several times that it's an exclusive dental office. For this reason, the clinical centre still does not have and is still in difficulty with the implementation of the programmes. By diverting money to the business premises of the Ministry of Health, Mr Minister, you have acted contrary to government plans from the sale of property, whereby funds from sales are intended to move the clinical centre for venous diseases from Trnov to the clinical centre and to solve the spatial distress for intensive internal medicine and the surgery of the heart and blood vessels. This was also accepted by the clinical centre at its meeting, the relocation of the clinical centre, the vascular disease department and the community of the clinical centre suggested that the funds from the sale of the hospital in Trnov should be allocated to the necessary adaptations required by the relocation of this clinical department for vascular diseases, in particular in order to resolve the spatial problem of the clinical department for intensive internal medicine. That's why you were committed. Instead, you went to the adaptation of the premises for the needs of the Ministry, equipped the service rooms for rest and the luxurious bathroom, the Jacuzzi, for your own "shell". Government plan, you've also violated the government's sales and property exchange plan. This must be respected and there was also no reasonable and reasoned response. You also claim that the Municipality of Ljubljana could not buy, pay in cash. Well, are you the Minister of Health in this country to solve the financial difficulties of the city of Ljubljana, to pay for meals or to take property? What does the Minister have to do with covering questions from the former mayor? The city of Ljubljana had no resources for any other projects. In your reply you also write that the City of Ljubljana had no other premises in exchange, given at its disposal. Thank God she didn't have them, because otherwise we'd have a lot more trouble in the city world. You also state that you will then sell these premises much better in advance. On the above mentioned what you bought and what is connected, I must tell you that you bought spaces without parking spaces, without adequate access, and not only that. There will also be a problem because it is necessary to immediately arrange the facade, which in general is estimated at 500 million tolars in Skytičnik. This will all go from the budget. However, it is important to know that, after a decision by the government and government services, the Ministry of Health moves to a completely different location within two years. That's why this move kicks into the dark. Summary: The sale or exchange was made without an invitation to tender, which means that you violated the law on public finances and the regulation. You have dropped the price of state property by choice and for no reason, and the price of property of the buyer of the city of Ljubljana has been greatly raised, thereby damaging the state property. You violated the regulation on terms of sale, exchange of state property, violation of the government's plan to sell and change the assets of the Republic of Slovenia to the management of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. So, in our opinion, this is a sufficient reason to justify the interpretation and also to withdraw. The second project, the Nebetičnik on Stefano 1, which was the subject of the exchange agreement. On your seventh stop, you claim that you had no intention of buying, as I have already stated, these premises. There was no such intention. The possibility of acquiring business premises in Stephanov was created only during the negotiations on the sale of Trnovo Hospital. And second. The government of the Republic of Slovenia approved the real estate acquisition strategy at its regular meeting on 12.2.2004 - 2004, Minister! This is said to have been confirmed in 2004 by the plan you carried out in 2002. And then you claim that you have acted prudently, that the government and the ministry are carefully planning to continue to have a bearing on the property in accordance with the law. This was carried out without a plan in 2002. And you're covering in 2004. Already in this project, we need to inform Members and Members of the National Assembly, as well as others, of the concepts relating to maintenance, because on this basis there is also an assessment of the appropriateness or inadequacy of the conduct of the Minister or Government. Perhaps you, as Minister of Health, have not deepened in these concepts, but surely your subordinates should, in particular Mr Vrchunec, who is the head of the investment and development sector. One is an investment maintenance, the other is ongoing maintenance and the third intervention maintenance. These concepts should be distinguished, in particular between investment and current maintenance. What is investment maintenance? These are measures to be taken by the owner during the lifetime of dwellings or business premises with a view to maintaining the usable value of an individual element, such as furniture and so on, the equipment of the apartment house and appliances under Article 8 of the Housing Act, and represent greater repairs of the elements and their replacement after the lifetime of the individual element. These works are carried out according to a plan adopted by owners whose share represented more than 50% of the value of the house. The fact is that by contract 22.11.2002 you acquired dental outpatients who have moved to a new location in Kotnikov. Almost a year later, you remodeled and changed the destination of the premises. That is why you have made investment maintenance, which you are also confirming when you say on page 8, I quote: "For investment maintenance and reconstruction, the Ministry has already planned to spend 17 million 378 thousand tolars, of which over 11 million were spent for renovation on Stefano 1." So, you admitted it was about investment maintenance. Such an intervention requires a building permit. So, Mr. Keber, it has been proven that it was not ongoing maintenance, but investment maintenance or reconstruction, which you are also admitting. It follows that the location information is evidenced to be the wrong document, as such a level requires the building permit and the consent of the owners. With the help of the seller and the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Department of Urbanism, you have covered the Single Methodology Regulation for the production of public procurement programmes in the public health sector, Official Journal 34/1. By doing so, you have violated the building law and the question is whether you have complied with all the security standards in construction that we have otherwise to fulfil and implement by all taxpayers. You have avoided administrative procedures which we ordinary citizens must undoubtedly respect. As you well know, the skyscraper is 70 years old. The last adaptation was made, especially by dental outpatients, more than 10 years ago. And in two years, you'll be moving to new premises. You're going to move to new places, that's for sure. For you, the service of the common services of the government has been dedicated 4000 square metres in the business complex of the Refugee Court. That's what you delivered. Then you will find yourself in trouble when you sell this property, without parking space, with all the problems that we have mentioned to you, even with the fact that you have bought something that is not yours now and you will have to resolve it with your roommates. The facade will also have to be paid, probably before the move. You didn't do the investment program, even though you'd have to do it. It is interesting, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry has this property. Why, for God's sake, did you frame the director of the clinical center to sign the contract? In this fact, we do not find it reasonable to explain further to your false, misleading claims why you spent 23 million 988 thousand unintentionally and illegally. It is true, however, that for your own needs and the needs of the Ministry you have redesigned the premises for, that is, the Ministry. Your response to interpolation is very interesting. For investment maintenance, the Ministry planned to spend 17 million already in September 2002 and some more money was spent on the renovation at Stefanov 1 11 million. The rest pertains to current maintenance So you have updated and for this you need a building permit. You have not obtained this building permit and therefore you have acted unlawfully, and therefore this interpolation, this point of interpolation, is justified. It is commendable to recognise that the Ministry of Health, in accordance with Article 25 of the Public Finance Act 2001 and 2002, submitted a procurement and construction plan to the services of the common services of the Government, which did not include business premises on Stefanov 1, and this is exactly the irregularity that we are reading to you. So, what else should we add? In addition, we must tell you that you have allowed the exchange of Trnovo Hospital for Nebetičnik without a clear land book statement and that this has also been confirmed by the government commission at the 44th meeting. So the basic document for implementation, the basic document for implementation, you didn't have at all. The contract was concluded on 22.01.2002. The third or third argument and the third paragraph in interpolation are infective wastes involving Mollier and Ajco. Our claim that an invitation to tender for the collection and destruction of infectious waste has not been issued during your period of the ministry is, as always, an attempt to organise in response. The invitation to tender was published in 1995 under the previous Minister, and everyone knows this, and this is also demonstrated by the general contract concluded on 31 May 1995 with effect until 30.11.2001. During your ministry, the contract expired and you were obliged to issue a public invitation to tender, but you never did. In the interview, we did not ask you whether the invitation to tender was published by the previous ministers, but whether you published the invitation. Those ministers also concluded contracts with the highest bidder on the basis of the invitation to tender. But you didn't, even if you had to. So the problem is not in 1995, the problem is the year 2001 and 2002 when this general contract expired. It was your responsibility and duty to draw up a new tender before the general contract expired under all the rules of the Public Procurement Act. By choice, we should make a new contract, either as a new or an old service provider. You didn't do it either, and you didn't explain it properly. You are well aware that two companies, Mollier and Ajco, have provided a profitable service since 1995. Both businesses known from your affaires and both had a proven privileged position until the outbreak of the affair in the clinical centre. You have done it yourself in such a way that the conclusions or opinions of the relevant institutions are written by one performer or an interested person. Our claim that, in view of the fact that an economic public service should be awarded through a concession contract and on the basis of an invitation to tender for a concessionaire, you should declare it misleading and add four possible ways: a director's establishment, an economic public institution, a public undertaking and an investment in the activity of private law persons. All of this shows that you are not sufficiently familiar and educated, as well as your fellow workers, as you are in the public ministry. You could choose any way, but if you set up an institution or an economic public service for this purpose, you would not need to work. However, if you decide to assign a public service to a private contractor, as far as possible, you should do so on the basis of a public invitation to tender, and that is what we deny. At the end of your explanation as a joke, please indicate that the Ministry of Health is not responsible for the management of infectious waste, but for the Ministry of Environment and Space. If it is not competent, as you yourself state, then why did you conclude the contract? What interests have led you to conclude a contract? What drove you to take over the work and authority of the Environment Minister? Also from this point of view, the contract is disputed because you have violated your jurisdiction. The information contained in your letter to the Public Procurement Office dated 22.3.2002 is such that you forced them into an opinion that these statements are incorrect and misleading, so that the Public Procurement Office had no choice as it was. Your letter to the Public Procurement Office says that before the expiry of the general contract, the contractor has submitted an offer to continue the contract relationship and you have offered a nine-month extension of the contract, which has been slightly rejected. They refused because they claimed that they did not achieve positive results under these conditions. The reasons are the non-performability of future financial deposits of the landfill and so on. And why could they simply reject you right away? Because they knew they'd come to this job. The conclusion is that these two operators are the only operators that acquired the decision of the Environment Agency and the space for carrying out such works in 2001. They prepared the area, at the end of the contract relationship, they pushed you against the wall so that you could only find that a sudden interruption would lead to severe health consequences for them. Not the Minister, but you and your Secretary of State have not taken care of the invitation to tender in time to create competition on the market. And since this has become completely clear to you and your secretary that we should therefore defend ourselves before the government, you have virtually arranged an interim solution and concluded an annex, of course, without an invitation to tender. In order to gain legitimacy, you have begun to claim that companies without each other could not be successful and that the withdrawal of one of them would lead to a halt in the collection of infectious waste. As you are aware, Director Ajco d.o.o. its subsidiary, Ajco ISS d.o.o. to sell to another legal entity and thereby to the other legal entity a dispute between them. The final suspension of cooperation was achieved by an affair of the operating table at the Clinical Center. It should be noted that the new owner has provided a new technology that significantly less pollutes the environment than Mollier’s that Ajco had sufficient transport capacity for the whole country. It's an interesting statement from your letter to the office. I quote: "The Ministry of Health carried out some inquiries in the meantime and found that, according to available information, they are the only operators implementing technology, logistics and have professional expertise in carrying out disinfection and infectious waste". Can you trust the National Assembly, how did you do that you only came two performers a day and that the only two are qualified? The only praise for the professional approach is from the Public Procurement Office, which stated that the opinion was exclusively written on the basis of the documentation available and no longer submitted by the contracting authority in the request for an opinion and clearly transferred the responsibility to you. To conclude this work, there are some other facts. The fact that the annex, according to your words, was signed 30.4.2002 still proves that you allowed five months of governmentlessness. But you made an annex to a general contract that had no date at the time of signing. The accounts, which were, of course, issued and also paid, clearly show that you anti-dated this annex. Speaking of the invoices, I would like to inform you and tell you how the country has been cheated, even though you mentioned that the prices of these transports have been reduced. When in response you boasted that you were able to lower the price for a kilogram of infectious waste by real 18% compared to 1995, we must disappoint you. The fact that you have managed to save money through your well-known hard-to-reach negotiations with already selected contractors is irrelevant. These have elegantly raised the cost of transportation to a mile [km]. And to whom have these higher costs of these dangerous substances been hanged by more than 10%? Health care providers, Mr. Minister, have to wear them. In the end, taxpayers and taxpayers. In short, Mr Minister, you are obviously unable to carry out one project alone without being transferred by someone who is thirsty over water, and especially by your employees with effective professional proposals. Next item, Pediatrics Clinic. On all five pages, you did not specify a single document with a full identification name, number and date. But you have given a series of numbers that only you can believe. Just before the expiry of your term of office, you can only show the Slovenian public the investment programme with the date 3.10.2003 and a series of illegal transitional actions, as you say you started construction in 2003. Let's go in one order. First, you appointed this professional commission or the government appointed it and earlier wrote that you lived in good faith. The first attempt to renovate the investment programme prepared by the Ministry under your leadership has been cataclysmicly assessed by this commission. Firstly, it is inconsistent with the applicable legal acts and economic logic, it is not consistent and understandable. And of course you will not convince anyone that according to the instructions of this group you started building a pediatric clinic 10 months before you had an investment program. So, before you had an investment program, you started building. Based on what? That this needs to be assessed in the investment documentation, you have already been told by a working group that you have appointed yourself. This is also required by the Single Methodology Regulation for the development of a public procurement programme of an investment character. As has already been said, the beginning of construction at the beginning of 2003 is not legal. It follows that the Minister has also acted unlawfully if he has taken a decision to initiate the works. The real cycle or sequence should be the adoption of an investment programme, the production of project documentation, the acquisition of a building permit, the decision to start construction. And what do you have to show for 35 months in the National Assembly today? Just an investment program and nothing else. The construction plan is illegal. You have to admit that with the illegality, the activity really hasty, you could confirm that you were even ahead of schedule. But you believed in the law at first. In the interim period, you have prepared documentation in a non-professional manner and in the end, after three and a half years, you do not have to say and show any other than that you have an investment programme adopted in October. There is still a cave in that area, including another building, and nothing has moved. So you're working inexplicably, too slowly, illegally. And how can you guarantee that in 2006 the pediatric clinic, which is so important, will also be built. You also did not explain the inclusion of a private owner in the paediatric clinic project in terms of planning and study. It is a big lie that an investment manager in a public health institution can be private and that this is in line with the legislation in force. That's not true. Allow me to conclude, dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor Minister! Almost four years ago, you took a mandate and promised a lot of things. Look at the hearing you've done in Parliament, and you'll see what you've promised. After almost four years, we can tell you didn't do anything. Even more. You have brought an extremely severe, difficult condition to the health care sector. Unregulation in the provision of medical services, lack of personnel, heavy losses, reduced accessibility of the service, obsolete equipment in public institutions, abuse, non-economic behaviour. You had a chance to do something, and you wasted your chance. In addition, we have shown you that you have dealt with public funds uneconomically, violating laws and other regulations and thereby undermining the reputation of the rule of law. Last but not least, you have done nothing about the necessary health reform. Now, five months before the end of your mandate, you are offering some kind of book on health reform, which you spent a lot of millions of taxpayers' money on. You didn't pay our experts anything, but you gave a lot of money without an invitation to a foreigner. Your time is up, you've done your job, and you have to take responsibility for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u3	The explanation of the proposal for interpolation will now be complemented by a colleague of Cukjat, and then we will give the Minister of Health Dr Dusan Kebra the opportunity to explain the answer. Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Well, the things that have been wronged at the Ministry in these three years are so much that they cannot be further explained by one person, at least two are necessary and will not yet be part of the task. Because of the depth and breadth of sins, so to speak. If Comrade Drobnic spoke about material errors and those direct violations of laws, regulations, regulations relating to the handling of state property, allow me to touch another part, the other four points which speak of the health system as such and of the bad experiences we have in this mandate with health policy and of non-compliance with laws as demonstrated or as demonstrated by the Minister. You all know and last year there was a lot of talk about the new health reform, everything will be new, everything will be better, we will save a tremendous amount of money, waiting times will be split, everything will be nice and good, it will be wonderful, with less money inappropriate anymore. Well, and when we have, of course, tackled this question also, how much is true and what is the purpose of these really very beautiful ideas and principles, we have seen, in fact, that the White Paper, so to speak, health reform very little or nothing, responds to those real needs of the citizens they feel. I have a public opinion survey here that was carried out on the basis of the announced reform of health care. Especially were we or were researchers interested in what people want, what people need, what they really want to change in health care. So, what is what should be the heart of health reform? Well of the many questions listed here, that was, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, we have as you see below, in the first place, 45%, decided only one answer. What do we want? The question was, what bothers you most about your communication with your doctor. The answer was too little time. And the second, half smaller, 25% non-personal. Everything else is negligible, watch out, too little time. And then, of course, there was another question that was: "What do you find most problematic in our health care? Again, 17 possible answers. 17 possible answers, among them the type looks very important, but the answer was extremely, in 48%, what bothers them most in Slovenian health - waiting time. Not the expertise, they're happy with it. They don't mind, like, bad organization of work, they don't mind, they don't feel bad organization. The amount of resources for health care, the prices of health services, the ratio of doctors to patients, the premises, all of this does not bother them, the waiting period. If we want to do good to this population, we need to cut through these first or first address these questions: waiting time and doctors have too little time. Of course, this depends on how much time a doctor has for a patient or waiting for a diagnosis or surgery, depending on the number of outpatients, the number of diagnostic devices, the number of doctors and other medical personnel. In short, from a human resources problem. As a result, it should be a central issue of health reform and of ministers' commitment to the resolution of the network of personnel and equipment, expensive equipment. We have already warned about threatening human resources problems in Slovenian health care in 2000. Then it was an opportunity. A few months later, the Bajuk government gave it to us to warn us. At that time, an analysis of Slovenian primary health care and the human resources issue of Slovenian health was made. And of course, that's what's left of it. And today, today you all know and read in the newspapers that the pediatricians at the General Hospital of Murska Sobota may be closed tomorrow, that in Radja the health home will be in or will not be in Radja. That most remote places cover the human resources needs by importing foreign doctors who have neither a license nor a Slovenian knowledge and that differences across Slovenia on accessibility to health services are increasing. It's getting bigger. Let me just say the number. Of course, accessibility, as I said, depends on how many populations, how many problems are covered by enoccupation, one magnetic resonance, one working unit in health. And in these comparisons it is very interesting to say that the number of adults per general doctor in the New Town area is 1700 and in the Maribor area is 2500. The number of children per pediatrician is in the Ljubljana area of 674, while in Novogorski the number of children per pediatrician is 1043. Of course, there are even greater differences in some other specialities of basic health care. Let's say the Slovenian average of women of childbearing age on gynecologist is 6,700 women, at birth on gynecologist in dissipation activities, the average of Slovenia. In Cyprus, we have 10,000, in Illyrian Bistrica we have 12,000, and in Metlika we have 15,000 women on a dissertation gynecologist. Of course, the Ljubljana girls get to the gynecologist three times faster than the Metlicks. Therefore, gentlemen, the law already laid down in Article 87 of the Act in 1999, I quote: "In the 12 months following the entry into force of this Act, the Minister will set out a schedule of medical posts in the public health service network." Therefore, in the fifth chapter of the National Health Programme, I quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will set minimum standards of staff in health care no later than one year after the adoption of the national programme." So 2001 is supposed to happen, and so on, a national programme: "The Public Health Service Network in the Republic of Slovenia at secondary and tertiary level will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a special regulation within four months of the adoption of this programme." So, by the end of 2000, or the beginning of 2001. The whole health policy, the full resolution of the basic problems of Slovenian health care has been set in ten years by first determining the situation of standard-setting, of course, for all Slovenia, and making a plan for the resolution of personnel and equipment. So far, this ministry has neither taken the first step nor found out about the situation. Where else are the standards, where is the plan to solve the human resources problems? We forced, forced, and nothing else has been done so far to make a qualitative change. And, of course, given how the White Paper deals with human resources problems at all, it is the most eloquent example on page 295 of the White Paper. There's some kind of diagram made there. The burdens of a general doctor from 1990 to 2001, that is to say ten, eleven years. And there the minister notes that in 1991 2,300 adults were a general doctor and in 2001 1,593. That is to say from 2,300, the burden of a general doctor fell to 1,600, very interesting. And I would say that wonderfully, but at this time, in these ten years, the number of general doctors has not changed, the number of general outpatients has not increased. The yearbook or census of the population from 1991 to 2002 indicates that the adult population increased by 11% and the number of those aged 65 and over by 35%. Where did they go? Do they even go to the doctor? Probably not. However, given that it is, and all experts, all analysts acknowledge that more than 50% of the health services are intended for the old population, that is to say those who are 65 years old and over, then we cannot agree with the Minister's finding that the burden of the general doctor has dropped by 30% in ten years. And if we calculate all of this, an increase in the number of elderly by 35%, and given that they spend inadequately on more health care, then the analytical data is that during this time the burden of the general doctor increased by 50%, not by 30%, but by 50%. Why am I telling you this? This is because completely wrong data stems from completely wrong plans for health reform. If, like the minister, he assures that the burden has dropped by 30%, it means that a general doctor can be more burdened by a family doctor. And in the White Paper, there is really a plan to stop pediatricians and gynecologists and psychiatrists in primary health care, and this activity is taken over by general family doctors. Deceiving data, whether hot or negligent, as ordered for the idea of eliminating pediatricians, gynecologists, psychiatrists in primary health care. Because so far it has been, and you all know that it is still so that in basic medicine you come without a travel guide not only to the general physician, but also to the gynecologist, to the pediatrician and to the psychiatrist. That's right. This is a Slovenian specialty, which is very good. All, both health care and patients want this specialty to be preserved, but of course, because in Australia there is probably another system, and the minister is kind of very fond of the other system, they're from the White Paper where the basic health talk is, and that's a lot, the pediatricians, the gynecologists, the psychiatrists have disappeared. Even it writes, and when it writes as a primary health care porter, the White Book says that these family doctors will be able to learn more and take over, as stated on page 102 of the White Paper, "only a family doctor would be able to provide for or meet the needs of all family members in primary health care". So is the wife, the mother and the child, and so on. When, in fact, the people woke up, so to speak, and signatures began to be collected against the abolition of pediatricians and against the abolition of gynecologists, the minister responded and denied it. I'm glad he changed his mind. I hope that's what's left of it. But no one collected signatures against the abolition of psychiatrists, which is why they are still erased from basic health care. How sensitive or important the human resources issue is to mention only the last letter from the Association of Health Institutions, which was sent a good month ago not only to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but also to the parliamentary groups for information - I don't know if you've got it - i.e. the Association of Health Institutions. This is said to be the case with representatives of all health care homes, that is to say, representatives of 62 health homes in Slovenia point out that as early as 2000, at least 100 additional doctors in primary health care were found to be missing and that 200 doctors in primary health care, of which 75 were general, 22 paediatrics, 43 dentists, 6 orthodontists and other specialties, will be missing after their analysis in 2005. These are warnings. In this mandate, the issue is deepening and neither the first step has been taken nor the analysis of the situation - where we are still behind the regulations that should have been adopted by law three years ago! Of course, this is very bad for Slovenia, and such management of health policy is very bad for us. Of course, the extensive reform of the Minister does not know these problems. The minister, as we said, has been taking them, even though this has been required of him by laws for several years. The Minister doesn't go after them. Moreover, in his reform, the Minister not only neglects some of the essential issues of health care, such as lack of personnel, and some activities such as dental care, which is not at all, but is also dangerously neglecting even certain groups of patients or certain types of disease. For the Minister speaks only of those diseases and, above all, he devotes all his attention to those who cause death. And here, of course, are the primary diseases of the heart and blood vessels, neoplasms, injuries, respiratory diseases, as well as suicide, traffic accidents, liver disease, and so on. It speaks for those outcomes, for those diseases that cause lost years of life. Well, this is a very good criterion for the analysis of quality health activities, but there are also some other criteria, namely, years spent in a state of less ability. One is concern about accidents, accidents at work, death - dealing sports accidents and diseases that lead to death, and another is concern for diseases that bring a person to disability. These are mainly depressive conditions, Alzheimer’s disease of other dementias, mental behavioural disorders, osteoarthritis, rheumatism, and so on. This group is extremely neglected. It is likely that the preparers of the White Paper, and even those who guide health policy, were unilaterally informed or unilaterally interested. This is about point 5. With regard to point 6, which we referred to as a set of problems, which, of course, implies that a thorough overhaul should be carried out at this Ministry, talks about diagnostic and therapeutic equipment. As has already been said, the waiting time for a specific investigation depends on the number of appliances in Slovenia. If we just look at magnetic resonances, these are extremely important appliances, those whose investigation is actually a prerequisite for various operations, to detect deep injuries, disease events deep in the body, on the bones, soft tissues, etc. And given that there are only four magnetic resonances in Slovenia, there are 500 000 inhabitants per magnetic resonance in Slovenia. European standards speak of 80 to 100,000 people, so according to European standards in Slovenia they should have 20 such magnetic resonances not four. So five times more. This, of course, makes waiting periods very long, even to a year and a half and more. While waiting for an emergency review - this is an emergency review - many cases become urgent and, of course, interventions for the country are much more expensive and for the patient much more painful. Well, here it is in these months now, some very interesting project or very interesting initiative to buy a special apparatus called PETSCAN, it is said, an apparatus of positronic exceptional tomography.Some of you have probably already read in the media, it is an apparatus worth €6 million and each investigation costs €1,200 or $285 000. The magnetic resonance investigation is four times cheaper, four times cheaper. But despite the fact that I would need inappropriately more magnetic resonances, because there is a real crisis and the work stops and patients suffer, the climate is created to get PETSCAN. The average in Western Europe, in developed countries, is one such PETSCAN at one to three million. So if we bought a machine like this, we'd get to the level of Germany, France. However, we have four times less or five times less magnetic resonances than in France and Germany. And here we are again, probably buying this camera, this expensive machine. This will, in fact, exhaust resources which are also intended for diagnostics; it will stall further enlargement and even halt the restoration of magnetic resonances. It can be bought, it will probably - and in the clinical center there is no secret, everyone knows that in this purchase of PETSCAN, this extremely expensive apparatus, is in the game v.d. the director of the clinical centre, which, together with the minister two months ago, was very thoroughly renovating the clinical centre. I'm not gonna say it's a prize specifically for him. That's what they say. This is not important; however, it is important for us to have the possibility of such a way of buying extremely expensive things, such a way that is not in accordance with an integrated policy, with some integrated approach, because we do not have a network of these diagnostic devices, nor of standards, nor of the criteria by which these things could be regulated. In 2000, the National Health Programme also set up and anchored the health policy. This is what the National Programme of 2000 says in Chapter 3.4.3: 'The Ministry of Health will set standards of material and material capacity within three years of the adoption of the national programme at the latest'. And in Chapter 5.2.2.1.1, which speaks of specialist hospital departments: "The standard of equipment will be determined by the Ministry of Health." Since there are no such standards, it is not known whether or not someone will be forced to buy PETSCAN or whether it will be installed in a clinical centre or oncological institute - it is not known because there are no norms or standards of equipment. If there were standards of equipment, 90% of these dearest investigations by PETSCAN would need an oncological institute and it would be written that once Slovenia acquires it, it will be located at the oncology institute. There's no such thing as standards, norms. And this is again a matter that the minister has blamed, a matter that has not been resolved, which does not create conditions for normal operation and functioning of hospitals. In the past year, the Minister adopted a regulation called the Rules on the preparation and adoption of standards and standards. And when I saw this last July in the Official Journal, I was delighted, but the hospitals will have some document on how to behave, how to plan long-term, how to plan equipment in the long term, what is the most expensive equipment, but something has moved. I was happy, but when I looked at the next page of the Official Journal, I saw that there were eight short articles. And I thought this was a great rule book and wonderful standards, eight short articles. And when I read, I only found the following, quote: "The Ministry responsible for health defines specific standards and norms." Nice. Further: "On the basis of this Regulation, the Ministry of Health shall draw up expert rules on the basis of which the criteria for the preparation of specific standards and standards for health activities will be laid down in more detail." In four years, the Minister failed to accept or, if I have not been able to adopt the standards of the material capacity of the public health service until last year, he has adopted a regulation obliging the Minister to draw up professional rules on the basis of which the criteria will be established and only then standards will be drawn up. Well, it will! It will be! It's moving. In three years, the Minister has adopted a regulation, perhaps in the next three years he will adopt rules on how to approach it. In the next three years, he will adopt the criteria and then set the right standards in accordance with these criteria in two or three subsequent mandates. Well, that's not the kind of "teacher charm" the national program was talking about, and whoever's reading it, sees it's some very interesting escape. In point 7, we told the Minister that he did not, in fact, take advantage of the opportunities offered by Article 25 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. What's this all about? This is, of course, his first, most popular and media-friendly principle of social justice in the burdens of patients. Insicer, it was a very precise finding by the minister that, in fact, voluntary health insurance had become practically compulsory. In order to cover this voluntary health insurance part of the health costs already in order to pay practically no one risks paying directly from the pocket, they are too large. That's quite the point. And then, the minister goes on to say in his principle that the annual premium on voluntary health insurance has become so high that poor people can no longer pay it Yes, 44 thousand a year is a huge expense. And then the minister gave an initiative or idea to abolish the additional insurance, transferred the funds to the mandatory to introduce a new health tax, which is 2% of the gross salary and 4% of the pension. This would relieve those who have low pensions and low wages and burden the richer. Everything was nice and good, it sounded good, it was wonderful. Then, of course, the macro-economists came along, said that this was not the case, that our wages were already so much burdened in Europe that they should not be further burdened, etc. Clearly, things must be in line with the country's macroeconomic receptions and policies. However, this ministerial slogan was very interesting in this title that it is not viable from a macroeconomic point of view. And yet, the minister was very insistent on it. The fact is that the appointed Article 25 of the Health and Health Insurance Act refers to a group of insured persons who have everything free of charge for emergency treatment that they do not have to pay any extras. This is about people with disabilities; it is about people over 75 years of age; it is about social supporters; it is about those who have already reached a certain level of pay in a certain year. Very nice. The emergency treatment was also defined in 1995. It was defined by the Health Insurance Office and, of course, by the consent of the Ministry, also accepted where it was said somewhat more or less clearly what it is necessary to treat. At the same time, however, it must be said that this is more than necessary medical care. For emergency medical care, we are all residents, all of whom are exempt from all charges. Although this is not always done properly, many do not take advantage of it, but the need for medical care is completely free of charge, so to speak. A, this is an emergency treatment that is broader. However, this article states that these ratings, up to these exemptions, are capable of patients from these layers, i.e. disabled persons, elderly people, social supporters, only if they are not additionally insured. If only this had been deleted and in any case you would have been exempt from this class of residents for emergency treatment entirely without consideration, whether it is additionally insured or not additionally insured, then many or many of them would not have been provided with additional insurance because they would have been satisfied with emergency treatment. Or, if they were to be further insured, their premium should be half lower. Good. That's one possibility, we're reading to him, Minister, that he didn't take advantage of it. The following option is indicated in Article 23 of the Law, which diseases are completely free, not only necessary medical care, but other diseases are, they are covered from compulsory health insurance to a certain level and write at least 95% of the cost for these and these diseases are covered by compulsory health insurance or at least 85% for some other disease. The rest, of course, must be covered by a patient with a surcharge, that is 5% or 15% or some 25%, or by an additional or voluntary voluntary insurance. However, the law states that for these diseases, which are only partially covered by compulsory health insurance, at least 95 or at least 85%, there is no indication that this proportion could not be higher, say 99% or 100%. Even the law should not be amended. No reform, little, if it were the sounding principles that the Minister for Social Justice had spoken, it could have done so without reform, without changing the law. I'm sure you'll say: only money is needed. Yeah, money. I'm sure! We've told you several times about excise duties. The excise duties on alcohol and tobacco will amount to 60 billion in this year or last year — as much as the total additional voluntary insurance for all Slovenians. If only half the excise duties and when the excise laws were adopted, was Minister Rob, then the minister, who was certainly the minister on the committee, promised everywhere: "The excise duties will be used exclusively for the purposes of health care, because alcohol and tobacco cause so many diseases, very expensive diseases that burden health." It's not like that. If only half the excise duty were spent on health care, at least half of the Slovenians would be exempt from all payments, all additional insurance. But there will be nothing with these excises, gentlemen, for now we have such losses in the health department that you can get dizzy in your head. And if the excise fees are spent on what they're used for, they'll be for the loss of a health insurance facility. It is very interesting that at the end of the previous mandate in 1999, the Health Insurance Office recorded a loss of 1.9 billion, which it covered from its own reserves. One year later, there was 3 billion losses. In 2001, in the first year of the ministry of Dr Kebra, 14.8 billion already. In 2002 23.6 billion, and last year 35 and 37.8 billion losses. I'm not gonna draw a parallel, but it looks like it's a bad combination in the Keber-Miklavčič case. And as long as we have such a combination, we will not come to the green branch and the premiums of additional insurance will not go down, nor will we in the pre-election period. And then there's point eight, which is about financing the White Paper. In view of the fact that these matters are already quite much to be said, however, the following must be said, at the outset, when we talked about the high cost of the project, the development of the healthcare system, this is said to be financed by a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and from our resources. This is said, from a project that was adopted in 2000, ratified here in the National Assembly. And we said that, in fact, those funds that are allocated in this project to various consulting firms and consultants, particularly abroad, for which we have a nice sum, we linked this to the White Paper. And we've seen that this white book - with or on what we got from it - is inappropriately expensive. And then the minister denied it, and he said, nothing was spent on the loan, the international loan for the white book, but probably just print and stuff. Back we went to the 2002 annual report, an annual report on this project, which, of course, the borrower, that is our country, has to give to the international bank every year. And in the 2002 - 2003, annual report, we don't know if it's already written. This is said, for 2002, this report states on page 5 as follows: "It is expected that the strategy will be extended and used as a basis for other aspects of the project, and additionally the document will serve as a basis for other important documents, including the White Paper." Thus, already this claim in the 2002 report says that the White Paper is being supported and is being drawn from this project. And the project itself is set by content in point 1, this is said in Module A by talking about planning a funding system, modernising a health care network, developing diagnostic therapeutic standards and so on. Therefore, this project was also designed for the content contained in the White Paper, but in particular for the content required of the law by the Minister, they are not. Of course, in this case we can find that this has actually somehow failed the project. This is also what those who participate in the project say that the project was in some way stuck to tar, namely that a number of these workers did not end up being interrupted in the middle of work. Like the American company Certrex Group Ltc. the contract was concluded for EUR 305,000. Since they had done nothing, only EUR 78 000 had been paid. Firstly, we did not get any results from the company, but secondly, there is a very interesting contractual relationship - I would also sign such a contract with the Minister for 305,000 euros, then I would do nothing and give me only 78,000 euros. They didn't arrest anything, nothing - with a German company and so on. And there's a whole bunch of these. Even for the Australian company, the contract was not completed, nor was it paid to the end. Where the reason this has all fallen into the water is another question. Here we ask only the question of the conduct of a good master. As a good master, the minister behaved only to Slovenian doctors who translated his systems to him, who introduced him, who advised him, who spent thousands of hours working and received nothing paid. Here - well done, he actually pulled them a little bit by the nose, but he acted like a good master. But it's a little strange for counseling, which we didn't get anything from, to pay $5,400 a week. I'd like to be on a team like this that's got this kind of business. It is very strange, especially if we think that the minister concluded with our companies, including some Slovenian companies, at such a price. 77 grand a day for an individual, 77 grand a day, gentlemen. The average Slovenian salary is 11,000 tolars, average, not minimal. Gross per day. Slovenian experts, Slovenian companies - of course, he will, as he said in the case of the Trnov hospital, but this was their price. That's what they demanded, and that's what we gave. Well, some other things are interesting in the title of the white book. I hope it'll be an opportunity to mention them later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Drobnič and Mr Tsukati further explained the interpretation sent to the assembly by a group of 15 Members and Members. Now is the time for the interpolation to be responded to by the Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Keber. It also has the same amount of time that both applicants had or had. Then I will give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Member Drobnic and Mr Tsukati! Ladies Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, there's something good about every thing. I am pleased to have a chance before you today and before the Slovenian public, to the extent that this debate is accompanied, to show that our health system is not as bad as it seems from some of the statements made today and, of course, even more in recent weeks. It is not a bad system, it is even less a system that is in crisis. I think in the first ten or fifteen minutes of my presentation I'm going to prove why I'm proud of this system in recent years. We will show some health information about the health condition and, of course, about the system itself. The results are impressive. For many of you the numbers will not mean much, but I can tell you that many of the numbers I will mention have improved in these three years of the current mandate earlier than in the entire decade. Of course, I don't mean to say that we are responsible for this good information at the Ministry. Less that I'm responsible for them personally. But certainly the same applies to errors, hardships, weaknesses of the system, as well as the health system - it is difficult for the minister to accept any blame for such a system. The achievements to be presented are proof that the health system is fully working, including the Ministry. So first some data on the health status of the population from 2000 to 2002; some data are fresh, first obtained from the Institute for Health Protection. First of all, life expected at birth. On average, it increased by a good half year between 2000 and 2002. In women for three quarters of years, in men for 0.4 years. This is one of the fastest growths in life expectancy in the last decade, before which trends were slower. This indicator is a sensitive indicator, not just about health, it talks about the whole social system. This means that he is talking about how the whole country in all departments, with a focus on the social sector, is fulfilling its mission. The other information, on which - I am sure you all know him - we are proud: one of the lowest deaths of newborns per thousand live births. Look, even though we had - we have been on top of the world so far - 4.9 in 2000 per thousand live births, 2002 data 3.8 - infant mortality decreased by 22 per cent. The mortality due to cardiovascular diseases - we talked about today - decreased by 12% from 2000 to 2002. Over the past ten years, the total decline has been 34%, so one third of this jump, which is a marked leap - one third less mortality for heart disease, one third of which we have achieved in our mandate. The same applies to brain disease: a 12% decrease in our mandate. Traffic accident decline: 11% at this time [[I'll talk about alcohol later.]] . Suicide mortality: 10%. Even in cancer, which is a problem, we have some information on progress. If we cannot say this about mortality, we can say that for the first time in Slovenian history, cancer on the lungs in men has been reduced by 10% during this period. What can we say about waiting times that we have heard a great deal about today? This is what Slovenian citizens - and I agree with this - put it first, and we have written this very clearly in the White Paper. I will only list those interventions where the waiting period is those predominant interventions, and again from 2000 to 2003 [[here and there we have data only until 2002]] . The number of heart surgeries has increased by 21%, with this year's planning additional operations increasing the number of operations by 61% throughout our mandate. We predict that we may have reached a waiting period that will be significantly shorter than one year this year, even though we announced it for the second year. Number of operations of the shadow: in our mandate increased by 54%, from 6,000 to 9.200. Number of orthopedic operations: from 1700 to 2.160, by 27%. The number of dialysiss performed, in principle a condition that has long been known for treatment - could have been balanced, however, increased by 18%. Also, the number of large transplants made: 15%, the number of MRI investigations, today has been repeatedly mentioned, increased by 64% in this mandate, given this year's increase; and the number of appliances in Slovenia was 2000-5; this year, when we - and they are already in the purchasing process - two more, we will have eight of these devices. So, five to eight. Then the picture of the heart with coronarography increased by 60%, the spread of the heart vessels, the so-called PTCA dilation by 106%, the support for the heart vessels by 123%, and the cardiac inducers, among whom we have been among the better in Europe, better than in Italy, increased by 34%. By 50%, we have increased resources for emergency activities in primary health care, which is where the situation is improving. In our mandate, we have expanded the healthcare programme, together in all three years for 20 billion, of which for those interventions where there is a long waiting period, by 3.7 billion. On this occasion, let me say, yes, people are still waiting, but we're treating them significantly more than we did four, five, six years ago. We have more older people, we have better diagnostics, we have more equipment for better diagnostics and it brings us this every day new patients and we these patients at that time, despite the fact that you all know how hard it has been to fight and how unsuccessful it has been to fight for additional resources, we have made a big leap forward in this area. Now let me say something about the efficiency of work at this time. I could say some slow start to the reform, which started in some way before our term of office. What do I mean? The lying time in Slovenian hospitals, in this Parliament I have explained many times what was critical, that we had such a long lying period. The way in which hospitals were financed, which did not exactly encourage or prevent hospitals from reducing the waiting period adequately, has therefore reduced the lying period in the first five years of the previous decade by only 5.6% - in five years; then there was a break when we introduced different funding together at the clinical centre at my time in agreement with the health insurance institution - in cases no longer after the laying age. Now that all the Slovenian hospitals followed this, from 1997 to 2002 the lying period reduced by 25%. Together at this time, we have reduced the bedpan by two days, which, honourable Members and Members, means several billion annual savings due to the so-called hotel supply - only this increased cost. Not to mention what it means to have fewer needs for beds in acute hospitals, to relax these beds for prolonged treatment of chronic patients, to establish long-term care units in Slovenian hospitals. You are aware that these departments also need to be supported by additional finance and, of course, we are in trouble again here, but we have opened some of these departments. The rate of hospitalisation decreased, as we changed the funding, which is good. This means that for the first time in this mandate, fewer patients are treated in the hospital and more in the infirmary. So far, this has grown; now, for the first time, in 2002, the number has dropped by 3%. This, of course, once again means rationalisation in the treatment of patients. Even what may happen to someone among you, especially if it seems quickly controversial - that is, a trip to a specialist. In the last 10 years, the journey has increased threefold. I also explained that the system of funding and competition between a specialist and a general doctor - who will pay for the laboratory for example, and more reasons - has contributed significantly to the over-recommendation that we are now recording for the first time the fall of our trip to specialists last year. We are very proud of the achievements in the field of public health in our ministry. We are not by chance - and today we can say that this is true - we have renamed the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Health. We believe and believe that the mission of the Ministry is based on the fact that individual health is part of the overall health of all people. By drafting a law on the limitation of alcohol consumption, regardless of the short period and the pretentious talk of its direct consequences, we have undoubtedly mobilised the public through debate. Maybe it was more important than the law, at least in a short time. But last year, for the first time in years, the number of deaths fell, where alcohol was responsible for 11%. Some of you, when we changed this law or prepared this law, said: “It is not worth anything. Only if he saves at least one life, then maybe he's worth it. So, I don't know if the law saved him, but the public debate saved him, and if I skip to the tobacco field, where, of course, it would be inappropriate to rewrite this great progress in tobacco for this period, because the fight in Slovenia started much earlier with laws, with actions, with public enlightenment, but we have reduced the number of smokers in these 15 years, most in 10 years for 200,000 - for one third among adults! And the information that we have a lower lung cancer disease for the first time in Slovenian history in the previous year by 10% is a reliable consequence of the decrease in smoking. In the area of prevention, the so-called healthy lifestyle, the fight against cardiovascular diseases did not remain on declarations that were significant in the previous period, but in fact we have established an active approach to the population. Since 2001, a preventive programme implemented by general family doctors has been introduced in the area of the whole of Slovenia in primary health care. In 2002 and 2003, when this programme was established, more than 200,000 Slovenians were already screened. They organized 2,500 educational workshops where people were taught or brought up in a healthy way of life and included 35,000 people in these workshops. I believe that this has also contributed or, or has a role to play in reducing heart disease, and we expect that in the coming years, when this spreads to more people, there will be even greater consequences. When we decided in this mandate that until the opportunistic search for women to look for early forms of cancer on the cervix, we would turn it into an active form, the so-called ZORA project, we expected results, but we did not know that the results would show up relatively quickly. Now, after two years of running this ZORA project across the country, the incidence of more invasive forms - that is, more severe forms - of cancer on the cervix has, of course, increased, as we expected, the detection of those changes on the cervix that are operable and that can restore women and women to perfect health. And they proved that to us. With this success, shown here or shown in the initial form, we also go to the same program for early detection of breast cancer. Instead of the current system, when it depends on the woman herself and her enlightenment, whether she decides to do this review, we will introduce a population screening programme in the next year through several stages, similar to that of cancer on the cervix. We are also preparing for cancer of the large intestine, where early cancer is also possible, it is expected to be alive in 2006. I also mention reducing health differences. We have probably for the first time seriously pointed out the differences in health between regions, the four-to-five-year difference in life expectancy between Prekmurje and Primorsko. But we didn't stay at it! We, together with other departments, have introduced the Mura Pilot Programme with funding, it is called investing in the health and development of Pomurje, where we want to increase education, education, economic development and, on the other hand, to prove that better health is a condition for better economic development. The first analyses already carried out between Pomurci in villages show statistically significant improvements in risk factors such as blood pressure reduction, improvement of physical capacity, weight loss and eating habits. In preparation and within a few weeks, there will then be two national strategies in Parliament: for food policy and for the promotion of physical activity. The new area I want to present, but it is so extensive that I will not present it in detail, is the area of investment. We did not accept a bad legacy, it was not the fault of previous ministers, but it was a reflection of how much money she could devote to health investments at the time. But in 2000, she spent 2.7 billion, not even 3 billion. This year we will invest 8.5 billion in health investments. It is clear that investment took place very slowly in the previous decade, very quickly in this period over the past few years and I can say calmly that never in Slovenian history has it been built in this country as it is now. Otherwise, I can look for a parallel by building a clinical center, but remember that a special contribution that was not made this time was needed. We have completed 18 investments at this time, some of them have indeed started in the previous period. The finished and those that you would like to mention specifically are the eye clinic in Ljubljana, oncology institute, H and R facility, psychiatric clinic as a replacement facility - one of its facilities, then the second drug-dependent facility, orthopedic department in Celje, neurological department in Celje, adaptation of the institution for disabled youth in Stara Gora. Then the construction is completed and three equipment is in progress: in Maribor Psychiatric Department, in Murska Sobota maternity department, in the New Town Gynecological-Paternity Department. And the construction and equipment of the institutions that are listed continues; among which we will complete at least one this year, and this is the oncological institute, the E building, with which, in fact, the main or dominantly completes the 30-year period of construction of the oncology institute. I think my colleagues have distributed the material to you, where this list is, and you also have some photos of these objects available. It's actually fair objects, it's not small things, and we haven't attached pictures of all of them. In the field of investment in large equipment, which was somehow behind these investments in new buildings, we must say, despite everything, we have enabled the oncological institute to purchase a computer tomograph with a radiation planning system, a clinical centre to purchase a computer tomograph and more other equipment elements. Even at the primary level, at the basic level, where the country itself participates, it co-finances what some municipalities cannot complete, we have invested more than a hundred times in three years of this mandate, in a total value of about 600 million, in health homes or in health stations. Let me also say something about the employment of health workers during this period. Now, it's nice to say how this country should have more doctors, more health workers. These Members know exactly that in the past period, and by choice - ours or yours - shared will, we had almost a freeze of employment, which was logical, because thus increased wages in the health system - by the way, I always say, justifiably, unjustifiably - that it is not possible for what we receive from the public system, to increase wages and increase the number of employees. Therefore, the growth of health workers has almost been halted in the previous decade. Growth, although I will not speak for each profile at this time, was below half a year. During this period, the number of all healthcare professionals, not independent of professions, is increasing by 3% to 4%, because we have two assessments. The number of specialist doctors increased by almost 300 and 10% respectively. The number of nurses graduated increased by almost 6%, by 4%. This year we have also provided money for the employment of 200 more graduate sisters, so that we can say that we will increase the number of graduates by 11.5% in this mandate. We're doing something at school during that time. In addition to the already mentioned medical faculty, where many will say that we did not have any merit in doing so, the state has also taken care of the new premises of the secondary health school in Ljubljana in 1996. There is a secondary health school in Celje and a high health school in Izola is being prepared, and you probably believe that the government and also the Ministry of Health had a word. I will not talk about the work that has been done unnoticed or noticeable mainly because of you, when we have been burdening you – sometimes not with very good projects, laws or in some cases under-laws. We are one of the smallest ministries that has to respond in some way - or is expected to respond - to 2 million citizens who think each morning about their health. During that time, we adopted or drafted 28 laws and 288 regulations, which literally means two per week. I'm not going to talk about any other elements. Let me only mention the excise duty mentioned more than once today. Indeed, because of the need to remain an integral part of the integrated budget, we have not succeeded in doing so, even though we have tried to ensure that part of the excise duty is selectively allocated to the health budget. Nevertheless, we have achieved in the year 20011 that at the expense of the excise duty, the health investment fund has risen rapidly. Today it is no longer visible, today it is an integral part of the budget, but I can say that at the time it was said that this is coming from the current increase in excise duties. And now allow me to switch to the answers to individual points of interpolation. First, if I use a synonym for this story, Trnovo Hospital. It was my responsibility to allow financial damage to state property and public health services in the event of the sale of this hospital. Let me first mention that I was an integral part of the effort to move Trno Hospital to better places. I was her CEO for a long time. I was walking around in this hospital at night with my eyes closed so that they wouldn't walk, so they could run. This hospital had to move. But unfortunately, she was among those on the edge of town who had no media attention to move her. And in the end, I have a small role to play that she really moved. Our way of reducing the bed age that I have already described today, which began in 1997, was in the clinical centre in the main building and everywhere else relaxed the beds, appeared free beds and there was an opportunity - long before I was the minister - that Trnovo finally moved into the main building and that this building, which had to be adapted senselessly, although it was known that it would have to be demolished immediately by a potential new buyer, that the maintenance costs, energy and all the other costs were therefore to move Trnovo. Of course you don't read this to me. It is a question of price whether the value of the hospital in the sale was properly assessed. First of all, I would like to say that, of course, it has been assessed by an authorized evaluator, that the buyer of the Ljubljana municipality gave this purchase in cash, as you know, and partly in nature with the business premises of Stefanov 1, from now on I will also talk about Nebetičnik, because this is an integral part of the second question or other accusation from the interpretation. It is not true that the price was unreasonablely low, as we said, whether the other was unreasonablely high. Both prices were determined by an authorised valuer. Appreciation is, of course, based on the fact that, according to the spatial urban plan, this area is intended for health or social care. The possible higher price, the possible prices that appear in the Member's statements, are the prices that are taken into account if they were on the open market for the construction of banks, shops or anything else, but not when it comes to the construction of what the Ljubljana municipality has expressed in the letter of intent; this is a place for a home for older citizens. By the way, apart from the healthcare facility or home for older citizens, there can be no PUP. So the market price was around 610 million Trnovo hospitals and that was 44,000 more than the liquidation value. This liquidation value means only the building value of the buildings to be destroyed. And it is clear that on our side we have accepted this liquidation price correctly, while on the site of the business premises in Skytičnik we have accepted the market price because in fact these premises were used immediately. The evaluation and the sales programme first carried out by the Ministry of Health with its committee was also assessed by the government's expert committee; it requested additions, including some corrections, and the government finally agreed to the decision. So - why was there no invitation to tender? The Regulation on sales procedures and other forms of state-owned assets allows for the sale of direct contracts while meeting three conditions. If the sale of land is in accordance with the spatial plan of the municipality, which was in our case; if the tenderer is only one - the municipality has a preliminary right to say again - a pre-purchase right and only if the municipality gives up this purchase can the land be offered on the market. But the municipality of Ljubljana highlighted this right in a letter of intent - and if the value of state property does not decrease. That's why not just us, but all those who monitored this treaty claim that there was no violation of any laws or other acts. The funds, despite the fact that the public and also in the jargon talks have always said: "Trnovska hospital is from the clinical centre, the clinical centre should get this money", the Members are clear that this is state property; that the country as owner sold Trnovo and from the city municipality of Ljubljana in addition to the purchase, it also acquired property in its own possession. Cash went directly to the public health investment fund. Let me just mention in round that this fund is our speciality in health, we have introduced it in our mandate, and we have thus prevented any unused investment at the end of the year from returning to the state budget. Since then, we have all the resources, including those for the pediatric clinic, in line. So, we've invested these funds. While the business premises were decided by the government to be administered by the Ministry of Health, the clinical centre stated that this property was not useful for it. However, and this is stated, the Ministry of Health will sell the entire area when it moves to the final location, expected in 2007 with some other ministries, but the purchase for this part will be made into the budget fund. However, information should be given primarily to those in the clinical centre and also to the public that the clinical centre does not remain empty. Already in my introduction, you've heard what investments are made in it. In 2003 alone, almost 2 billion tolars were invested in the clinical centre. It is true that this is a long-term investment and it is true that I do not want to say that this is a moral refund for Trnovo Hospital. No! No! During this time, because the clinical centre itself financed the relocation of Trnovo hospital to its location and there was no longer a need to participate in it, some acute shortages occurred, acute damage to very important equipment, X-rays, computer tomography, so that the clinical centre at that time after purchase, after the sale of Trnovo hospital, had already received an investment in a 230 million computer tomographer, while public calls for additional three investments - X-ray equipment and equipment for a total of 290 million venous diseases department. Almost covered, another 40 million is this symbolic difference, and I can say that in any case it belongs to the budget. There was no final claim of financial compensation for state assets and public health services. If it is not possible for us to believe in the outcome of the inspection carried out by the budget inspection carried out by the Office of the Republic, which has not found compensation, it is true that it has imposed certain other activities on us to take measures to regulate the legal relationship with regard to the use of premises. This was in progress at the time. The State Attorney's Office, as a legitimate representative, also stated in its opinion: "The sale or exchange of tangible property has certainly been followed by a fundamental principle of efficiency and efficiency, and on the basis of the data provided, it is not necessary to detect significant breaches of the rules in this area." In the face of public controversy on this issue, it is quite understandable that it was also the wish of the Criminal Police Office, which submitted reports to the District Attorney's Office on 19.3. Project skyscraper. The basic claim that the government did not intend to buy business premises in Negitičnik is, of course, correct, but misleading. Really, we didn't intend to buy it, we got it as a purchase in nature; and that's what the country got. These premises, therefore, have, in the event of the fact that they were part of the purchase, been transferred to the temporary operation of the Ministry of Health. The claim that a total of 23 million tolars intended for bleaching and minor repairs and minimal furniture have been used inadvertently and that we would therefore need different projects, tenders and building permits is, of course, entirely unfounded. We have spent the means of recovery on purpose, namely the budget accounts, which are intended for maintenance and reconstruction. However, in order to avoid any invitation to tender or without appropriate permission and without the investment documentation, the Ministry of Health has again received all the documents required for such reconstruction, namely the location information of the Ljubljana municipality of Incultural Protection for the restoration of the business premises of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Regular maintenance works were carried out in the premises of the Skytičnik, and these maintenance works, when I said, for the first time, are not investments and their value does not exceed 50 million tolars, so they are not required to produce a public procurement and investment programme and not project documentation or to issue a building permit. We have carried out the procurement procedure in accordance with Article 125 of the Public Procurement Act and the Small Value Order in the form of an invitation to tender to four tenderers. The restoration was then supervised by experts at the Cultural Heritage Protection Institute. The claim that investment in the Skytičnik area is uneconomic and that it is indicative of a corrupt act, because the Ministry of Health will move to another location in three years' time, and then the square metre of these premises would be sold cheaper than we paid for, and the boda is contained - not a boda, is contained in the government's real estate strategy for the needs of state authorities - is only true if another state authority were to move into these premises. However, if these premises are sold on the market, they will be sold at an appropriate market price, and a number of experts say that these premises in Skytičnik may have a higher price than we bought them because they will become more interesting to economically strong buyers because of the larger overall size. So if you allow me a summary, Trnovo and Nebetičnik, it's as if this is the crown of everything. What happened - but from the other end. Who was injured? Are these the patients who have been treated at Trnovo Hospital, who are now in a modern location, modernly equipped? Is this a medical staff now working under significantly better conditions than in the previous hospital? Has the clinical centre been damaged as a former hospital manager at Trnovo? He doesn't have to maintain an old wooden building; sometimes we call it a "room" because it's a wooden barracks. It was known that it was only worth the land because the building would have to be demolished. The new premises were provided by the clinical centre in its vacant premises. This means that there are no new energy requirements, and not many, which is reducing. At this time, as I explained, the clinical centre has already received a practical purchase in the formatist of expensive top equipment, which has been cancelled in the meantime and the waiting years of citizens have accumulated. In addition, the two sections mentioned above, the clinical department for internal intensive medicine and the clinical department for cardiac surgery - allow me to say simply: these two sections cannot be placed in the middle of the air at the clinical center. For this, it is necessary to keep on the watch, be on the watch, be on the lookout, be on the lookout, be on the lookout, be on the lookout, be on the lookout, be on the lookout, be on the lookout, be on the lookout, be on And these two departments are involved in our investment programmes until 2006, together with the construction of a pediatric clinic that has been attacked so many times and I will talk about it under a special item. Were the Ljubljanaians and the Ljubljana women injured? The dental infirmary, which operated in inappropriate areas, almost inaccessible to the disabled, without parking places, has moved to more modern and urban areas. Where Trnovo Hospital was located, it will be a home for older citizens; housing may also be protected, but not only protected apartments. In addition, of course, we have data directly from sources, that a project is already under way to build a home or that it is being established, all the conditions for this construction to take place. If the property was not damaged, I have proved by my own data that I have proved by the opinions of at least three relevant institutions in charge of overseeing it. By the way, let me say that our ministry is one of those not so common where the Court of Auditors gave a positive opinion on the activity in 2003. Many of the data in recent months are new and new, even though we have denied it in new and new terms: in the media, in public, I will have to deny one in second place, these are pediatricians and gynecologists, but probably today's session will not be enough. They will continue to appear again. I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, is it true that in this country we only have to live in an environment of suspicion? Is it true that today’s data on the health benefits of health care, or have we shown them very sumarically, do not penetrate the public? Should we just listen to other things? Is our country really unable to communicate something positive to citizens here and there? You can do it in the area of healthcare. Third point, new pediatric clinic. I've actually cheered up this issue. I am naively convinced that I have great credit for this pediatric clinic, not being built, because in any case it would be, but that it would be built as quickly as we thought it would be. We need to know what situation we came into in 2001 in January 2001. First of all, the design of the paediatric clinic in 1996 was not created as some coordinated investment planning - first of all a clinical centre with an assessment of the needs of children and the paediatric profession, taking into account the reduction of natility -, even the possibility of funding, and the trends in the future development of the hospital. Such a changed role, dimensions, capacity of hospitals - what is being shown today. We have faced three major problems, each of us has been able to delay the construction of a pediatric clinic at any rate. First of all, the project's foremension. Secondly, the lack of money, the inability to invest and, of course, the occupied land on which to build a clinic. We had these three things ahead of us. Let me take my turn. Foreshadowed first. And that whispered among the sparrows, you know that exactly the one among you, maybe someone among you who offered a good hand at laying various stones must have realized that this project had to be pre-sealed in the beginning. There was even talk of a so-called clinical center for children. Let me say that children still need a pediatric clinic, but in it, as in the initial project, they would double what is literally five meters away, as the pediatric clinic touches the clinical center, the lab on a square of 800 meters, another kitchen, some diagnostic activities and of course a substantial number of beds. Let him mention that at the time they started discussing a pediatric clinic, today, such as an old pediatric clinic, along with its location at 400 beds in the city’s children’s hospital. Last year, the average number of children per day in this same paediatric clinic was 110. Slovenia, in light of the facts that we have already explained with a smaller number of children, has a smaller birthrate, this instant twice the number of children's beds across all Slovene departments than neighbouring Austria. It is clear that building on this has led to literal obstacles to thinking about how to move such a project forward, experts have wondered, there has not been an adequate calculation, the economic efficiency of the state investment has failed! We asked who would keep this up when it started. And today, if we started then, even if there was money, if we started building this hospital at the time, today would almost certainly mean the so-called "acquisition" or the stopped investment. So another problem is modest investment. I already mentioned we started off with 2.7 billion money for investments in 2001. If I took into account the current project, we'd be building a pediatric clinic for five years, and we should stop all the other investments. I already mentioned at the beginning of the report that we completed 18 investments in this mandate and also started a paediatric clinic. And the third problem is the occupied land. At the beginning of the mandate it was built with buildings, there were no replacement areas provided, tenants resisted relocation, were blackmailing with additional conditions, and through the part of the land intended for construction, imports to the workplace were made and negotiations with it were held in a dead end. There was almost a conflict between this institution and future builders. And, of course, underground were giant, functional, major urban municipal waters. As we solved the problem, it is known in part. In September 2001, I appointed a working group, composed very wide from finance ministries to experts and, of course, professions. In short, they concluded that the revenue, future funding of the paediatric clinic and its investment programme should be checked, that a revision of the project documentation is needed because both the documentation and the project task are incomplete, that the investment documentation is incomplete and that the capacities of the new paediatric clinic are not adequately justified. Due to professional disagreements, mainly due to the planned capacity of the paediatric clinic, which has been extensively monitored in the media, I have also decided on an independent expert opinion by a foreign expert. On the basis of the joint proposals, we then formed a Commission for the development of a medical functional programme at the end of 2002. And this commission finally decided, and it finished its work by establishing a so-called design with revision 4. This design was a major rationalisation, with some 3.1 billion more favourable than the last one in 1998. True, there are still 201, 200 beds in this clinic, but given the data that the pediatric department of surgery is moving there, along with its intensive therapy, which is, I think, 40 or 50 beds, that means a pediatric clinic, if I compare it to the same extent as in today's location, of course the number of beds will decrease. Let me say here, not to the detriment of Slovenian children. The same number of beds for parents remains. This means that now more children in the hospital will have the opportunity to have their parents with them. And there's a lot of other things left and it's improved. I just said about the money, we believe that we can actually promise Slovenian citizens that if such inflows into the investment fund as so far as in the future mandate, we can build a pediatric clinic by 2006. We have also enabled the location; we have made it possible with a lot of radical moves that are also reflected in the public and I have a question. Yes, we bought a workplace and thus solved the problem of disputes, who is driving across some territory; but this institution will also mean laboratory spaces for the entire clinical centre, along with a new paediatric clinic, and will significantly relieve the clinic, allow new outpatient facilities and more. The clinical centre will have a central laboratory that will be close to all major institutions. Now it works, I mean, in five or ten locations, broken all over the clinical center. We have evicted and allowed the temporary residence of the Institute of Medicine and Labour. We've reached the eviction of the tenants, to say that this was the worst. Last time, after the trial, we reached an eviction a few months ago. Now this land is free. In addition, we did not rest in the meantime. In the meantime, but not through our investment, which would not have been possible, but by means of the payment of the municipal contribution, the Ljubljana municipality itself carried out the transfer of municipal waters - what would have been an integral part of the beginning of the construction. So I could say the construction of a pediatric clinic is going on. And for that, I'm sorry, for all we've achieved in three years, we're proud. I am sorry that some Members do not think so. Other findings in this regard, such as a protection agency, purchased at a significantly higher price - there is no data to talk about. The valuations show that we have achieved fair value, that we have achieved even a reduction, and for the public, the contract price was 2,400 German marks, was expressed in that it was more favourable than the comparable prices of comparable premises in the centre of Ljubljana at the time. Point four, infectious waste. In the interview, it is first of all clear that the call for proposals has never been made. Although we have heard today that although it was carried out - yes, it was carried out. It was performed in 1995 under the current minister. This Minister concluded a general contract for the implementation of infectious waste disinfections, referring to two acts: a directive on waste management and an order on the management of infectious waste. Both acts were his and, of course, it is difficult for me to attribute to anyone that I did not or am credited with allowing a monopoly or preventing the possibility of saving. The second thing is, the evidence of a period of injustice doesn't hold. The general contract undertook both operators to carry out disinfection for a period of at least six and a half years - at least not six and a half years - which means that they carried out it also over that period until the conclusion of the annex. And Annex No. 3 was concluded 5 months after the expiry of 6 years and after the first contract. The following claim that the Minister should conclude a concession contract with the contractors. This is the position of honourable Members. The Minister certainly has one of the five options that the honourable Member has counted. Because this was the case - even according to our data, there are only two operators; because they have invested a great deal in this work because contractors do not bother in this area, because the area is extremely difficult and because new regulations are also expected to compromise the implementation of operators in this area, there have been no other providers, according to our inquiries. So, in any case, we could easily and we extended the contract with an annex. The claim that we have deceived the Public Procurement Office, I have not heard absolutely any evidence of this, nor have we heard of it today, our data, which we have equipped the Public Procurement Office, have been real, complete and persistent. Moreover, it is not true that operators raised the price by 12.5%, but they reduced it by 10%. That kind of reminds me of Radio Yerevan. And then it's not true that you did it on your own, but at the request of the Ministry. Therefore, it is not true that the public health service has been damaged by €185,000, but it has reduced costs about that much. And that's all part of the contract. If I hear today about transports that are not in the contract, or maybe something else, for example, washing the rods, if anyone else has washed them, then, excuse me, it has nothing to do with the waste-cleaning contract. After all, transport could provide the source of pollution itself. It's part of something else, not a waste disinfection treaty. And that is why, of course, I can conclude briefly: this accusation is completely unrealistic. In non-implementation of legal provisions on the resolution of human resources problems - this part I will link to equipment in part later. I would like the honourable Members to imagine the situation we have been living in in the past ten years. The system, which exists with its funding, works around the operator, pays him by bed, determines the number of doctors, nurses, wages, pays him here and there. Clearly, when the service system appears, the provider begins to multiply services. I remember a time when the clinical centre had exceeded some services by more than 100%; it is clear that the institution did not pay for it at the end. If you're paid after days of care, you have long lying days - I know you're sick of me, but I've told you five times in this House. Why did our patients lie in the hospital for seven days with a gray eye, and today they're operating in an ambulance? But I will use this example: would it make sense at the time when we had an irrational system - which was not based on the needs of citizens but was funding the contractor - to standardise it then? At least what we would discover - let me tell you - that Slovenia needs, if I use this case, twice as many ophthalmic beds as it has today. Or, if I extrapolate to other hospitals, then the patients were lying in the hallways. Standardization at that time would mean the construction of new hospitals, and today we are reducing the number of beds. Well, not just that! At the time, it did not matter what was being treated in a hospital, it was left to the independent opinion of doctors and of course to the director, if he allowed it, as much as he was able to calculate the economic possibility of starting a new method. But if such a hospital were then standardized on equipment, then there would be a lot of equipment in such a hospital that would double, triple, and not be used rationally. Recently, I came across this information - at this point I can't remember who gave it to me - that we have some x-ray machines in Slovenia, which are really 30 years old or 40 years old, and then we can say, look at how we have an old camera, but they worked maybe 5 to 10% of their time because there were no investigations on them. So no matter what I accept, and I'll try to explain that we still had standards, but you have to have a background for why for ten years. The previous ministers have done nothing in this area either. By contrast, I will prove that I have done much; but, it would be unwise even to go with the norms, because we would increase costs and make friction between operators. In such circumstances, what defines, for example, the public health network first? If this were to be defined as it was, operators would try to extrapolate each other to the best possible composition. In a hospital where they have the most pediatricians, I'd say everyone else has to have that much. Where they have the most anesthesiologists, everyone else has to get close. This has been happening for the past ten years. That is why we have a network and the only logical network is a health service programme, which means a payer, a health insurance agency, which together with the Ministry of Health as an arbitrator and contractors sets out the criteria each year for how many doctors, how many programmes will be allocated in Slovenia. Despite the fact that I said that this allocation was irrational in the first ten years, it was still the best possible approximation of the real network. Clearly, capacity is difficult to change. You run into employee resistance, resistance in local communities. Then some use regulations that only we have. For example, it is a well-known fact that we have something in the middle of the average compared to European countries of anesthesiologists. But in Slovenia it is considered that this is the most deficient profession, although we probably have fewer operations than elsewhere. It is true that their work is involved here, and their work is also in intensive therapy departments, and this has to be added, but even when we consider it, the dilemma, I mention, is extremely difficult. And that's why - but let's add that we've increased our wages at this time. From 54% to 61% of the total health budget in the last five years, payments have been made. And it is clear that the policy pursued by the government, the Ministry of Health at the time, was a health insurance agency, that it was not to grow employees. How would you improve the network when there is no job growth and when you do not distribute these employees according to the needs of the citizens - according to points, by beds, but not by needs. And it is clear that for this, by the way, what the interpolation proponents did not do. Of course, I'd ask them where they've been since 1992, when these laws apply. Has this been addressed to anyone else to be arranged? Is this my turn? But I understand the former ministers. The attempt was already made by law in 1992 that this network must be brought into the national healthcare programme. And this was the key provision that the national programme was not adopted for the next seven years. And it wasn't adopted until 2000. There have been experiments that have led to incredible conflicts between contractors, no one has been satisfied with how many nurses, how many doctors and so on. And at the end of the day, the national program came out without it, went without it, and said lazily, but let the minister do it in the next six months. And this, of course, is well known to the applicants. We are at the beginning of this mandate, and perhaps now we will approach one of the essential elements of the reform, which I have repeatedly stressed, in a short way here, that everything revolves around citizens. Around his needs, money also revolves around his identified needs. When we know how many pneumonias, how many heart attacks, how many transplants, how many outpatient checks do we need Slovenians, then we will start to calculate standards, capacity, equipment and, of course, costs first. This is also important in the field of standards where to start. We think the need of a citizen is a criterion. We have written about this to ourselves, but in the interim period we have clearly known all of us, including the health insurance institution, which has repeatedly stated that the network is in agreement with the partners in the general agreement and in the field agreements. How are funds distributed? Because this means the number of health workers and their geographical distribution. Each plan or agreement shall specify the criteria for the basic network and, in particular, for secondary and tertiary protection. Let me mention that we've only improved some things in between. The information we have heard from the Commissioner of Sugary about these jumps with individual doctors in basic health care only holds if you look at a particular profession separately, but this is incorrect in basic health care. And let me also say, not only do we have general doctors, but we also have pediatricians, gynecologists and, of course, some others, and all these doctors need to be listed in the region, so that you can figure out what the burden is, even though everyone has a different burden between them, that is clear. And with this criterion, we have achieved a significant improvement in the supply of citizens. Right now, this is what our data shows, otherwise there are areas in Slovenia where there are fewer doctors, but the range is from plus, minus 5%. Let me add that there will be, in addition to -- I have said so far -- the needs of citizens that the "necessity of citizens" will not be abstract again, but will be accurately described in the clinical pathways and clinical guidelines. This time we have both been together for more than 30 years, which is an important tool. This guidance also describes the clinical process in detail and is the basis for the price, for the costs and also for the assessment of the necessary personnel. This means that in this combination, the human resources standards and the human resources network will be brought back to life in a short time. This year, in April, we will fully introduce the system of allocation of Slovenian hospitals' money in this way, while in basic health care it has been introduced through the system of principals for quite some time. Look, in the field of diagnostic and therapeutic equipment, I should repeat a lot of what I described in my staff. There is no doubt that the Minister decides to purchase without professional analysis, without standards, etc. The National Health Programme has set or describes the standards of material and material capacity and standards of equipment and has set for the first three-year period and has not even set a deadline for the second; therefore, even if it had taken into account, the deadline has expired in 2003. However, the applicants forget that the Health Act of 1992 provided for the professional and technical conditions to be met and the procedure for their verification by the Health Institute to be laid down by the Minister within six months, which means that the Trinitarians have not fulfilled this. I do not wish to denunciation these ministers, at the beginning of my contribution to this topic, I have talked about how difficult it would be to standardise this in such a system and that it was necessary for a reform to happen that puts the right things in the right places. I mentioned earlier how the model of payment for services, the green book in which we lived at the beginning of the previous decade, encourages a lot of services. How did he react to the agency? These services could not be paid if someone made them three times more, three times more EKGs, three times more X-rays, three times more than anything else, but lowered their price; simply, he reduced the price to the operators. Of course, the operators demanded these standards, thinking that it was essential for someone to recognise their standards and then over the standard and that it would be paid in full if they went beyond the service. Where this vicious circle is and where to cut it, of course we have said in the reform. Well, after all, what did we do in ours? At the beginning of the mandate we went to these preparations for the draft standards and standards and in some way set up a department for quality in health, with the last systemisation we finally have it in that form, until now we had one person working on it. In 2003, one regulation was previously cited, we adopted three normative acts for the preparation, application and control of this. We are currently preparing standards for hospitals' premises and equipment, and by the end of 2004, they will also be produced for ambulances and health care institutions, as well as a project for standardising consumer and other materials, while at the same time summarizing the standards in the file of European and other international comparisons. It is, of course, necessary to say that we have become or will soon become a member of the European Union, and that we have already transposed and published in the Official Journal the lists of more than 200 European Union standards in our field. When it comes to introducing new technologies, something completely new, which has not yet been the case in the country, which is not only the initial high cost of investment and education personnel, but also the high cost of such an investigation, we have changed the rules and have made this decision very clear to the extended professional colleagues and the Health Council. That's up to the profession, not the minister! Let me mention the case of PETSCAN. But it may even be nice to me that some people have recently opened up potential affairs for things that we haven't even called on yet, that we are even discussing, and some people know how we will decide, that they already know in advance that we are going to do something really wrong, that they already know in advance which friends we are going to give it to. I guess there's something else missing, at least in health, and I'm even proud of that. In the case of PETSCAN, this is a purely simple and very understandable conflict of interest between the two strong institutions where this scan will stand. And so, by the way, again as at the pediatric clinic, we have attracted a foreign expert, but this is only a decision on the need and location, and when this is decided and it is boabbered by the Health Council on a proposal from the Commission, then the tendering procedures that will take place, of course, in the form of a public tender, are on the table. But this area is absolutely well covered. It is extremely unfair to claim that the Minister with such conduct allows "operation tables" to take place in the future. Allow me to say, even on this occasion, "operation tables" did not happen because of the Minister's activities, the Director is responsible for the legality of operations and, in the case of operating tables, the Director was obliged to comply with the principles and procedures of the Public Procurement Act. The ministry, myself personally, we reacted as soon as we assessed that it was actually a suspicion of harmful purchases. And on the basis of the findings of the commission I've appointed, the affair is unraveling. And we think that these things - which then we hear at the other end of the interpolation in another way, the minister opens up the affairs, the complications - will prove less. I'm sure there'll be fewer of them in health care. At 0 In Article 25 of the Health Care Act, my respected colleague Tsukati made it easier for me to work. He commended part of the reform, although, of course, he said in the same breath that it was impossible in this concept of solidarity, in this concept, that our citizens should pay for all rights, those that are urgently needed and are in the so-called package of rights to pay depending on their events. He praised it, but, if I understood it correctly, he estimated that it was, of course, - like some macro-connomists who were rated, had the opportunity to say, "a rigid oath of values from communism". Or, honourable Members in this House. Or some who said: a minister who is easy on the lowest levels of society is sucking on them. Let me mention that the director of the World Bank, who visited last week, told the Prime Minister that they would recommend the Slovenian White Paper as a model for reforming healthcare in Poland; that you have heard another opinion today, which is just as positive; that the White Paper is also translated by the World Health Organization as a good concept. And of course, briefly, this concept is also feasible. Only those of our macroeconomics who have brought, who knows from where, maybe some late reflections of shame, that maybe 15 years ago I advocated something else, that those of our economists who today might swear on renaissance and think that the social entitlement of a citizen in the field of health is not the basis of this country. That those who also delete the word "social" from their names - perhaps because, perhaps from something else - that they are in the wrong, the social state is the concept of a modern state. Now I am once again asked by Members about the 1992 law - some of them were secretaries of state, they were writing or they were important, they were creators, through the Medical Chamber - that it was written in this law, which was written down, and we publicly said how we want to change it in this area. Now they're asking me, and they're saying, "Minister, you're bullshitting me, instead of saving Article 25 a little differently." How's that? Where do I get 15, 20, 25 billion? There are, of course, 65 billion if we carry all the allowances. Of course, you feel that it is only possible to give to the poor, while everyone else should have the same bonuses. But the concept is that these bonuses are entirely dependent on income, and not just those: this means, it is clear and in reform we will do so. Approximately 150,000 citizens will be exempt from any payment, and everyone else will be equally allocated. There is no reason for us to have the same bonuses in the field of health, in those rights that are urgently needed. True voluntary insurance is the subject of other real private insurance and we support it. Otherwise, a comment on the failure to comply with the article, which, for the first time, is being fulfilled - this means that Members have miswritten their accusation because they have replaced what is necessary medical care and what is necessary treatment. The Health Insurance Office - in our reply we have written and will not read this - clearly tells about what, in addition to emergency medical care, a citizen is receiving under certain conditions described in the health insurance rules. So I can briefly say, despite the fact that I am not personally satisfied with this solution and I want to change it, it is in no way true that this Article 25 of the Law has not been relatively well regulated in these ten years, and also according to the data of the Health Insurance Office in this area there have been no specific comments. Finally, I have to talk about health reform, and first I have to clear up the financing story. First of all, I can say calmly: many people are already involved in health reform. After all, in some way, we're working together now because you're listening to me. But if I narrow this down, of course, there are a lot of people working in systems, in conversations, after all, all health workers, citizens, public debates, meetings, tribunals and so on. If, of course, you want me to say how much health reform costs, then, of course, the cost will be great. Or, if I narrow this down, I say, health reform involves literally all the ministries that have their own budget -- let's say, this budget is so much and so many billions, I can say, these billions were for the White Paper. You probably know this isn't right. Your point is how much it cost me to prepare the white book. The White Paper wasn't in the budget, we didn't need to put it in the budget because we made it free. We don't have any copyright fees in this ministry; we don't have a representative car in this ministry either. And we don't have a yakuza, but we do have a simple shower, by the way, which is intended for all the employees as much as it is, and it's not in the minister's room, but it's completely different, but let me just say it as an ornament. And also the minister rides the tourist class to New Zealand, which is cheaper than the usual map in Europe. So don't tell me we're wasting money, even though it's kind of emotional at this level. But we gave specific numbers: one fee and a press. Now bring the project with you! The project, which began with the second minister, was signed at the time, is credible, corrected, is incredibly controlled. Unbelievably controlled! We wrote, of which - from the World Bank, the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Finance, in the project world, all these people are sitting. All these contracts go through double, triple checks. And in the end, of course, there's that, by the way, which also bothered me: 5,000 or 5,400 euros for one expert per week. Me too! Then I was told that the Chamber of Commerce has the same price list as its experts. We compared this, even in some cases you get higher prices per week, not just the same. And then, of course, I had to, with the help of experts who are familiar with this, comfort my ignorance that I had come to teach me, what is this payment for an expert who is an integral part of a company, what is his personal income, what are the costs of a job, what are the personal incomes in fact one third to one half of that sum, and that, when compared, let me just take the comparison that we made here today by the Slovenian group that works in Maribor for 70,000 a week. These salaries or incomes received by an individual are comparable to that of a government official in a higher place. In any way, they do not achieve the incomes that we read about in the newspaper and that I do not agree with. Now let me say - those few minutes that I have left - about health reform, although I think I have spent the whole time saying a lot about reform. So, a reform that's supposed to be a mess. True, reform thus changes the view of the essence of the health system and the fact that the citizen is at the heart, that some do not understand it. I say this calmly because I know I've had problems and when they understand it they say yes. Reform also to some macro-economics, when I tell them, the essence of rationalisation in this reform, as all health economists say, in the public system is one of the key, not the only, one of the key rationalisations is the allocation of money; how to use the lever of money you give to the operator meaningfully. When I tell the contractor, you'll get 200,000 tolars for the pneumonia and if you save anything, it'll stay with you, you don't have to write in the white book what some economists literally missed from me - almost where the savings in Turkish coffee and toilet paper are. I've met micro-economists like that who tell stories. The White Paper is a vision and it is part of a strategy, but it is not an operational document. But if we say that we are going to buy and that we are going to compare this price and if we have to compare internationally, it will suddenly become clear how much it costs in this country. Is it true that we, that our health system is undervalued, that some cannot do so at such a price, will now be the first time in the history of this country. And we know that lying days will continue to be reduced, not at the expense of the citizens, they will be reduced where the recent patients were admitted, and they were lying in the hospital for a week without being operated, and they didn't know exactly why because the surgery was delayed day after day. The White Paper is a balanced view of, yes, on the one hand - the last time I heard a really demagogic question: if the system is more solid or will people have shorter waiting periods? Yeah, that's the replacement or mixing of pears and apples: people need them both. If there's no solidarity, they won't come to justice at all. When the system is irritated in the future and new methods are coming, this will not be solved by increasing private premiums, you need to understand that. But so that this money will continue to be collected as much as possible and to a large extent in solidarity, because otherwise our citizens will fall into two categories, on those who have health rights, and on those who do, but significantly less. And we do not want this to happen or to put it far, far into the future. Even philosophers in this area do not know what will happen in 100 years or 50 years from now. Will the development of medicine and other sciences go in this direction so that we can develop only the most sophisticated methods for a small group of citizens who can buy it, or will we slow down this development and say, first, let us give what we have to share with others? We in Slovenia today - but not only apply to Slovenia, for all Europe - only 30% of the patients receive the treatment that their country offers, but still do not exist and are not given by doctors, they are not educated, they are ill-educated and whatever. Only one third of the citizens! In 10 years' time, we will be able to have incredibly new methods, but still people who will not be treated as they were 10 years ago. Which way do we go: as many people as possible or as many people as possible or as few as possible? So solidarity is the question that is before you, you can not solve this matter, you can reject it, you can continue to declare it utopia, but we will introduce it someday, but I am optimistic and I think we will be within this reform. Other elements in several points are talking about this rationalisation, about saving money, about money efficiency and we already have something to show for it, today I told you: shorter lying days for 2 days. This is estimated to be about 5 billion savings per year over the years. Centralisation of procurement - some make fun of it, really is a bit inappropriate. We are talking about central coordination of joint purchases for Slovenian hospitals, this is almost 100 billion. This coordination probably does not need to be listed, and it will prevent many abuses from working through the acquisition of large numbers. And already, in two trials, we've achieved a small 25% reduction in half a billion, we have something to show. We have something to show in the field of drug price regulation. Prices in the world of medicines in developed countries have been rising 14%-18% in recent years, we have only increased 14% in the last two years, 4% and 8% in the last two years. Of course, you will be able to say that they should not grow so much; they should not grow; but growth is slower than elsewhere. It is clear that the White Paper is a document which is a draft which has been put to the debate. We agree that there may be ambiguous sentences in it, and we also agree that ambiguous sentences, deliberately used and quoted maliciously, can make these stories that we are witnessing to them. After all, Clinton's reform fell on individual sentences from his 1,200 page of the book, but of course the stakes to the Americans and they will be even more severe in the future - their health care costs will reach 20% of GDP by 2010, according to pessimistic forecasts, in what some of you are singing, a private system that operates on market concepts and competition. And, of course, 40 million people don't have insured and 40 million people under insured. All experts in this world, with the exception of some of ours, say: do not follow the market, do not imitate yourself by making the market in pure form - yes, as an additional incentive, yes, as a rat in a tolmun, yes, as a variety of things, but not as a dominant model. And here I miss some public recognition and political, and of course also by the economic profession, because it is economically unfounded. In all the countries where they have this system, costs are rising. There is not one country to prove that it is more private, either in the area of financing or in the field of implementation, in order to save- such a country. Then let me finish. What will reform bring? In fact, it would bring citizens to the fore. Access to health care must be possible for all, that is, universal right to health care, clearly, taking into account the possibilities of a public funding system. Accessibility must also be fair. This means equally good care for all people with the same health needs. Funding must be based on solidarity in fundraising, and our second model, which we presented a few weeks ago, is based on this. The criteria for distribution must be the needs of citizens and the quality of health services and, of course, the emphasis on the public health system, which must have an essential role to play. In such a system, we are sure that not only citizens will feel good, but also performers, doctors, health workers and, after all, policies that ensure that the health system is good for citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. The following is a presentation of the views of the members of the groups on the interpretation of the work of the Minister of Health's responsibility. The first position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and your colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia [[DeSUS]] We have carefully examined all eight points, and in detail, in the details, as presented by extensive materials of the interpellation proponents. Equally carefully, we have examined in detail the arguments put forward by Minister of Health, Dr Keber, and we have identified certain things that I will briefly present. Objections, such as those in these eight points, have their own arguments and, on the other hand, the answers provided by Mr Minister with his material and in today's presentation reject most of these negotiations or the grounds for interpretation. Mr. Secretary! Last time you told me about the cost of the white book. If I return to this, we believe that a certain cost was certainly unjustified, although you had to pay it in good faith when you hired an Australian company. It's a little complicated for them to come to us from such a remote continent and teach us what would be good or better and how we should do it. We do not deny their experience and experience. On the other hand, there is the fact that we recognize and cannot boast that your ministry has done everything for free because you are paid for it in our logic. Payed to make sure our health care works better, to be better organised, and to be in the better service of citizens. We count you well, in our parliamentary group, that you have dealt with the fact that our additional, voluntary - so at least it says in law - health insurance in certain deformities. We think you hit a nail like that and we consider it a good thing. We also consider you, on the other hand, to be a good doctor's lobby. The fact is that the white book begins with the aim of shortening waiting periods or waiting periods for one or another medical service or intervention. Unfortunately, I will speak from personal experience, but I do not want to give this case in detail. I was lying under an emergency in the hospital, in a room with six beds. I wasn't looking for any connections and acquaintances, no privileges. What happened to me when I was on drugs, I don't know. But the conclusion, after a special examination, was found to be necessary, more or less necessary, but when I asked when I could come, when I was planning this time, because I had other obligations, they told me in 9 months, month of September. If he were a physical worker, we would probably have planned this operation differently because he could not physically perform certain tasks. Why am I saying this? I'm saying there's no citizen who wouldn't want the waiting periods cut short. How to shorten them, you have listed them in a white book, a double. However, I believe in the Group that there are other ways to reduce these waiting periods to some extent without additional funding. You shuddered into a nesting nest when you started or requested a different schedule of doctors’ daily employment. I've been through a lot since I've been in this world, a lot of damage, a lot of treatment. The fact is, a few years ago, doctors weren't at all, but forgive the expression, "amrall," that they were overloaded, that they were too small and anything. They've taken everything. Everyone worked as well as he could, regardless of whether the workers were 10, 12 and more hours, because they "grabbed" under the citation, not only their compulsory work, which was with various ambulances, but also with various committees. I have had an interview with them, yes, because we cannot leave work to young people, in these commissions it is so responsible that we older people, who have such and different practices, have to be here and, of course, again, under the terms of "serving" as they needed to be, as they thought it was right to want to have. All I'd say in the white book is the following. In Germany, when I was recently, and I read a lot of German media and listen to or watch German television too, Chancellor Schroeder recently, despite all the social reform, the reduction of rights and pensioners, it is essential that all children under 12 are free of charge. This is not exactly the case with us, although you say that children have free treatment. This is not exactly the case with us, although you say that children have free treatment. True, but for certain medicines, if prescribed by a home doctor when he thinks he is for this child and for that child, I will be quite specific, as I have told you, and it is interesting for fellow Members and colleagues, such as water goats, that the child would not later have visible consequences, but a certain liquid powder is prescribed for him. But look, one dose costs 2,500 tolars. So tell me, which one of those unemployed or low-retirement pensioners who takes care of his granddaughter or grandson is able to pay for it? You stated that in this additional voluntary insurance there are as many as 90% of the insured, and you feel for yourself, also in the parliamentary group, that this is "voluntary" of course under the adage. Who can afford to pay for additional treatment from these personnel, which does not include compulsory health insurance. On the other hand, who's in that 10%? The richest who can pay for it, but do not want to, are treated in Slovenia, but have them in clinics or elsewhere and, of course, Mr Minister, many who live on the brink of survival who do not have this money, good 4,000 a month at low pensions and wages that threaten their living standards and do not even have enough to survive, let alone a decent survival. Therefore, we believe that you have done a lot of good in the parliamentary group, and we expect you to take into account the specific talks you will be hearing today, as the public debate on the White Paper has given many guidelines, what is not yet good in the White Paper on Slovenia for Slovenian citizens. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Master Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Allow only a few additional words, because I have already said many of them in the introductory part about the opinion of the Group of Members, of course, on the interpretation. Of course, I support the interpretation of the New Slovenia Group. As for the answers to the Minister's interpellation he sent us, we can only say this, as if nothing was happening in this Slovenia, as if there were no shopping tables at the clinical centre, at the ocular clinic, as if nothing had happened in Celje, as if nothing was happening in this Slovenia. This as if nothing is happening in Ljubljana with regard to the SIB Bank, this is the reality. You make arguments, the money goes away, it's illegal, and the minister promises what he'll do, how they think. Mr. Minister, it's over, you have five months to finish, you can finish the job, you can present what you've done and what you haven't done. Then let's go first to the non-implementation of Article 25 of the Health Insurance Act. It doesn't mean anything if the previous ministers didn't do it. Interpellation wasn't filed, that was your judgment. But you absolutely cannot be the one who would make all the substantive decisions as to whether or not a law-abiding act is adopted. You're obliged to accept it, regardless of whether it means 1 billion, 500 million or no money. You have to do this, but not relativize that it means a lot to you and that you won't do it. Instead of issuing an executive regulation for the most disabled, you are over 75 years old, sick and injured, who are constantly in need of medical attention and the poor, you did not leave it out of the system, outside the system for which you should arrange and abandon these actions. Second, the white book. To reach out, a colleague has already said 5,300 or 5,400 euros a week, amounting to about 5 million or even over the monthly cost. This you can say is small, of course relatively small, all is small, only for workers who have to work for machines, but of course this means two years or three years' pay. For something we will get in Slovenia, perhaps a computer-supported system while still, perhaps a copy, a version that will be similar to the Sigma project, something similar to that in Germany. You will terminate with a white book, so you intend, a private insurance portfolio, which is, I tell you, a clear anti-constitutional act. Minister Mumor has his views, Minister Robb his, you as Minister have yours. With such assumptions you come with a white book to the National Assembly and to the public. Read all things, think carefully and come with a clear concept. Discontinuation of paediatrics at primary public level, discontinuation of gynaecologists at primary level, and then you will do so with some courses for a family doctor. Thank you very much for such a gynecologist, although I respect every expert who studied at the primary level. With regard to these terminations, Slovenian women and children are likely to say no to you because they deserve better health care, at least as we designed it in the previous system, as far as gynecologists and pediatricians are concerned. Then the complaint against Minister Kebra and his associates about the mistreatment of drinking water in Slovenia should also be mentioned. By decision, the Minister again postponed the obligations of the pipeline - sewerage to adhere to the standards necessary for a healthy life in Ljubljana. You have extended for three years, thereby seriously endangering people's health by allowing water and sewerage to this company to provide challenging water to Ljubljanans who cannot drink other people like this in one part of Ljubljana. You do not comply with legal provisions in the field of human resources. The report on the progress of the countries for EU membership clearly shows what needs to be done and what you have left behind. The sharpest warnings were about the training of nurses. For this matter you have actually run out of time during your period and this remains unresolved. Everything else will be presented to you by the Members in the context of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented to us by Mr France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. We've heard the Minister's very interesting answers, Dr. Kebra. He was talking about everything that no one else asked him. However, he did not respond to the vital evidence or respond in such a way that he could be ashamed of the professional service that prepared the answers. Regarding the very nice words about reducing the waiting period, what has happened and so on for our patients, let me just read an email that I received an hour ago or less ago, saying: "In the light of the interpretation I would like to inform you about how Keber reduces waiting lines in specialized clinics. First, of course, you have to get a referral to a personal physician, then, and so on, you go to a specialist infirmary and it starts here. For what they tell you quickly is that you have to check in only two or three months later, and only then do they give you a date — two, three, or six months later. So in the meantime, you're nowhere in the record. And officially there's no waiting period. And because of this, the waiting period suddenly "decreased" in the nincompoops decreased." Well, it's just like one interesting thing, how all the ministers' words have to be taken a little bit critically. But I would touch the essentials to which the Minister has not answered or, as I said, has responded strangely. First question is Trnovo Hospital. The purpose of the sale of Trnovo hospital was certainly long-standingly defined, laid down, in 1999 in the minutes of the Board of the Clinical Centre and the exact same text, the same purpose was taken down by the government and incorporated into the government plan, where it literally states: "The assets from the sale of properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia" and so on", "The Internal Clinic, the Department of Vascular Diseases, will be devoted to the necessary adaptations required by the relocation of the clinical department for venous diseases, in particular to solve the spatial problem of the internal clinic, the clinical department for intensive internal medicine." Then came the question of how the price of the Trnovo hospital was valued or so low. The minister said that mainly because the purpose here was limited. There is no way to build anything here, in the documents of the city of Ljubljana this purpose is very limited and therefore the valuation was so low. We must say that this purpose was given in 1988, gentlemen. At that time, it was said that in this place where Trnovo is a hospital, changes of destination are allowed within the existing activity, i.e. for health activities only. In the light of this purpose, a valuation of 552 million was made in 1977 and this valuation has obviously already taken into account the purpose of the plot. Another change of destination was made in 1998. It reads: "At this location, there is a permit for exasperation or new construction for the purposes of direct health care or social security." The purpose was also extended to social protection in 1998. And in 2001 we have a document that this plot is worth 7 million 400 thousand marks or in our money 840 million tolars. Therefore, the argument that it was estimated only for some over 500 million and slightly over 500 million was also sold for purpose is not true. And we know well that social protection also includes the possibility of building protected apartments, and this is a very profitable matter. At the same time, it should be pointed out that at the same time, when Trnovo’s plot was assessed and sold for 546 million, it was a plot of 10,000 square metres, that it was also rated and sold to Imosa’s plot of 4,000 square metres, also a favourable location, that is between Trubarje and Komenski, for 593 million tolars. Well, one of the arguments why this plot was sold at such a low price is that the city municipality of Ljubljana did not want to give any more that it was a hard negotiator. I don't know. That's no way to sell. If that's it, if he won't give more, he'll offer it to someone else. That's what they usually do at the market. And then, of course, the question why there was no bidding, why there was no invitation to tender. Never did the minister try to answer that question wisely, because it was willful, it was a blitzkriek of sales, so there would have been no one who would have offered a higher price. Then, of course, we're going to the skyscraper. It's the rooms of the sky, as you know, the old dental offices. Here are some very interesting arguments or notes. It's a question of price first. There were 377 square metres of usable area purchased by the minister for 191 million tolars. Although the minister said the city didn't have any money and offered room. So I believe that the city is in debt and that it has no money, because we know how it operates in the Municipality of Ljubljana. But if it did not have money, we could force a lower price from the Municipality of Ljubljana. Well, we didn't, so the minister didn't. The Minister even had a valuation report, which was made not at the price of 191 million, but was made at the price of 162 million, gentlemen, an official valuation. And this was done two months earlier, before these old premises were sold. Somehow it was very hasty to buy these spaces at such a high, high price. If we're counting on these 377 square meters that the Ministry won for 191 million to pay per square meter, we'd get over 500 thousand per square meter. At the same time, of course, there are still 84 square meters of purchased space. [[corridors, stairways]] Which, for the first time, I don't know what the Ministry will do. Secondly, he should have the consent of the co-owners, but he didn't have it. And thirdly, I don't know how the city hall sold some common space. It's a strange ulcer. The whole problem, and the whole point is that nowhere, gentlemen, anywhere in the government plans has ever been envisaged to buy spaces in the sky. While the Minister may, by law, have and have the property used by public institutions, hospitals. That's where the minister plays sovereignly. But when it comes to space, for the sake of the Ministry, the minister has nothing. He doesn't have a word for it. This is the service of the government's joint services. I say this for the sake of the audience, not for your sake, you know this, but especially for the Minister, but he did go shopping without any prior, I would say, government decisions or the inclusion of this in the government's purchase and sale plan. If the minister says yes, it was bought for a clinical center. Never, anywhere, at any of the meetings of the World Institute of Clinical Center was the decision taken to buy spaces in the Skytičnik. And then the minister says it's not for the Ministry, because that's what we're going to return to the clinical center. Gentlemen, this is like getting someone in the dark tonight who stole something good, and they'd ask him, "Hey, where did you get this?" This is not about now, it is not about the current documents that he may now sign and where the government inspection services have also said that everything is not so good and that some documents need to be arranged. Maybe they'll handle the paperwork now, but I'm not talking about 2004, but about 2002, what happened. Then the minister said that the 23 million were running maintenance, that's not what you worry about, that's not what you need any documents for tonis. Twenty-three million, you know, for bleaching and painting the ground is a bit of a strange price. Second, the minister himself said, on page 8, in response to the interpretation. This is what the minister said: "For investment maintenance and reconstruction, the Ministry had already planned to spend 17 million 378 thousand dollars, of which 11 million were spent on reconstruction at Stefanova 1 etc. "So, Mr. Minister, it was a reconstruction. If it's about rebuilding, then we know what the investor's job is, how does it work? We know all the documents to be drawn up, we know how to do it with state property in such a case, and all of this has not been done. Of course, there is the greatest irony in this, not that things have been done here horribly domestically. So we don't know what it would look like if we all looked at the rule of law. The greatest irony is that this will and uncontrolled diversion by means of tax means are protected and advocated by other ministers, even the Prime Minister, Mr Rop, as a disgrace to the budgetary assembly of the state, and in the ridicule of the citizens they are charging with their income. This is how we work where we well know what documents an ordinary citizen must obtain in order to be able to recover. There were old spaces, had to make a change of destination, had to completely rearrange all things, because there was a dental laboratory, there was a warehouse, there were waiting rooms, dental offices with all the installations - you know well what these installations are and what follows the breaking of walls, floors, ceilings and so on. However, there was no agreement from the roommates, no investment projects required to deal with the budget and when funds are drawn from the budget, there was no documentation that would eventually result in a building permit. Let you do something without a building permit! Ha, you're an ordinary citizen, you're not Minister Keber! You can't do this. Well, about the pediatric clinic. It must be said here that this point may be one of the least burdensome for a minister. In fact, there were major problems caused by the irregularity of spatial regulation of the conditions of the Ljubljana-Center municipality. There, the blind and the blind did not change the acts, the blind did not get to the location and to such a spatial arrangement that would provide for a paediatric clinic and an appropriate transport regime. It was not until 1999 that the municipality of Ljubljana adopted an appropriate decree on spatial regulation, on the regulatory conditions of the area of the Clinical Centre-North. After this year, it's been said since 2000 and things could turn up. But what's happening to us: in 2003, last year, in December, the minister issued a public call for construction and craft works and project documentation for all types of installations for the new pediatric clinic, with a very strange order. In fact, on the first pages of the invitation to tender, tenderers are invited to indicate the estimated amount for the production of installations according to individual plans [[E-20, E-10, M-20 and so on]] . On the following pages, however, they are invited to also indicate the cost of designing these installations. Firstly, the invitation to tender was not issued until four years after the adopted act or last December. Another time. The invitation to tender says that the tenderers should make a provisional amount for the production of installations and, a little later, should also include costs for the manufacture of such installations. How to make an estimate for the installation if it's not even in the plan. We know such invitations to tender in the case of tenders written on the skin of a major contractor. Why? Since such an operator will offer an extremely low price for the production of the installation, it does not know what the plans are. Then he'll make very rich installation plans, very rich plans. And because he originally gave a very low price for making installations, he'll get a call, and then he'll say, now there are plans to revise the previous offer and then there'll be a cost of production, not two billion, but ten billion. These are calls written on the skin of some major operators. I believe that the Minister did not personally write such an invitation to tender, but they are his professional services, and ultimately there is an objective responsibility on the part of the Ministry. Of course it's still kind of a thing. As far as infectious waste is concerned, I would only mention the following. That first contract expired. Infectious wastes are those that are very dangerous, they must be carefully collected throughout Slovenia, and then destroyed in an appropriate manner. This is currently done by only one or two performers, in cooperation, and this is the annual programme there about 500 million tolars. That sounds like quite an interesting program. However, they work with only a few employees and income is relatively appropriate. The first 1995 contract expired on 30 November 2001. But the contractors kept working. It's a good thing they are. But there hasn't been a new contract for a long time from anywhere, no annex that would break this irregular situation and put new things in legal order. Then the minister says on April 30th, an annex was signed to this contract. Gentlemen, I have this annex right here that's handling these things. On 30 April 2002, this is said to last only four, five months, this irregular situation. I've got this annex number three, copy. And here's the date 30.03.2004, tomorrow's date. Annex number 3. No one can say that to me. Why? Because the annex was signed, of course the signatures are original, both performers and the Ministry of Health, Professor Dr. Dušan Keber, doctor med., tomorrow's date. No one can deny me this signature. Why? Since the annex was signed there somewhere in November 2002, not October or April 2002 and is without a date, without a date. The minister's lying. In proof, there are invoices given and handed out by the operators in autumn 2002, at an old price, not at the price specified in the annex. I have here a contract to be concluded by every producer of infectious waste with this waste disposal company. The duty is to destroy waste in this way. In this contract, where the co-signatory is also a minister who also gives his consent, I agree, the contract was signed by the contractors and the contracting authority, this is some kind of dental activity. This contract was sent to the Ministry, here is the stamp, 30.09.2002. No annex, no new prices. 30.09.2002 Annex 3 certainly did not apply, was not signed. These are already things that fall within the framework of the treatment of law enforcement authorities. We're not getting into this, we're not authorized to do this. We only embark on the work of the Minister and on his respect for or non-compliance with the laws and regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister Keber and fellow Members! Let me introductoryly stress that the United Nations Group of Social Democrats does not support the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, and will not vote in favour of the Minister of Health. So far, we have not heard any argument to convince us otherwise. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that the Minister, together with his colleagues, has responded with conviction to the perceptions of the interpolation investors. However, no individual proposals and solutions that give rise to debates and different views or interpretations on the health situation and health reform may be justified by the proposal or the content of the interpretation. It would be important to discuss as much coordinated health reform as possible and to have the opposition respond to this project by interpolation. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we stress that Minister Keber has taken over a number of weaknesses in the health system as a legacy to previous ministers: Dr Voljč, Dr Jereb and Dr Bručan. Let me just remind you that, against Minister Voljc, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats has put an interpellation on account of the unregulated health situation, the unregulated situation of the insured in the enforcement of health services and the inefficient and ineffective private and insurance rules. At that time, the representative of the parties who are currently investing or supporting the interpolation did not see any problems in health care, but today Dr. Kebra is reading irregularities because he has taken a concrete and firm approach to regulating the health situation, and he has, of course, intervened in the interests of many in this area. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we note that interpellation is a pre-election manoeuvre of the opposition, which is at a pre-election time when the opposition or part of the opposition two months before the first European elections imposes an accelerated game and dance of referendum issues, interpretations and extraordinary meetings, which all hampers the work of the National Assembly. Such behaviour is extremely irresponsible at a time when the government and the National Assembly must consider and adopt a number of important measures and laws relating to European legislation. We are aware that interpellations are an entirely legitimate means of suspending and dismissing ministers. However, we believe that at least objective responsibility must be demonstrated. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we estimate that some are willing to do their utmost to ensure that this coalition fails and that the Government and the National Assembly do not carry out all that is necessary before entering the European Union. That is why we are convinced that the so-called and established intelligence is responsible for the political promotion of the opinions and views of the opposition. We hope that such an attempt to destabilise the work of the National Assembly coalition and the government will not succeed. Once again, I would like to point out that Minister Keber has clearly and convincingly responded to the findings of the interpolation investors. Health care is too large and too complex to find any mistakes in it, since it is linked to many other areas. Among others, financial and public procurement, where there are inconsistencies, which we have already pointed out in the National Assembly. In particular, as regards the complexity and duration of the procurement procedures and the choice of public procurement. That is why, of course, we cannot always agree with each individual solution offered by the team of the Minister of Health, since each team has its own seal, pace and way of working that marks it. However, we can safely say that this team has worked in all areas that are few in the Ministry of Health. In particular, we welcome the Minister of Health's efforts to implement the social agreement signed in April 2003, which clearly includes a forecast of the current health reform. I quote, "for the sake of the accumulated problems which are in the interest of the state and its citizens, there will be a need to reform some of the solutions so far and to speed up the process of improvement in other health-related areas in the coming years. Partners will support such changes in the healthcare system, which will be based on greater solidarity in the provision of reform funds, agreed health rights and greater fairness in their allocation, equal access to health rights for all users, increased accessibility, greater transparency and thus reducing waiting periods, greater quality and efficiency of the healthcare system, more active role of users and better supervision." [[End of quote.]] As a social-democracy party in the UK Group, we have consciously supported the basic objectives of reform, justice, accessibility, quality and efficiency in the field of health. We have found that the advantage of the reform ideas set out is also, and it is precisely, that they are written in one place, published in the White Paper and thus presented to the public. We can see that the public has responded forcefully and intensively, which is also the goal of Minister Kebra - to get as many feedbacks as possible to improve the draft amendments proposed. It is not to be forgotten that the White Paper is just a starting point for discussion and a basis for further work, a set of different expert opinions from experts and expert groups of the Ministry of Health, which have in their own way presented a number of activities in the field of health. It is a tabular presentation and a cut in the state of health in Slovenia, which is unfortunately not the most encouraging, so it is justified to cut into all segments with certain proposed changes, which we support in the UK Group of Social Democrats in the majority. It is likely that there was no reform that aroused so much interest and response in the public precisely because of the activity initiated by the Minister himself. The public debate has made it clear that the current healthcare system does not have consistent solidarity and that in practice the constitutional right of equal conditions for the exercise of healthcare rights has not been consistently exercised. That is why we also believe and fully support the consistent implementation of solidarity and the implementation of the part of the reform that now governs the insurance system, participation in the framework of additional insurance. We note that there are no reasons not to support all those initiatives that promote new products and new insurance opportunities for superstandards for extra-standard programmes and services that improve the quality of life, as this is a prerequisite for the effective functioning of an individual and society as a whole. For all Members of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, it seems very important to us that access to basic health services is important for achieving health for all. Unfortunately, there are categories of people who do not even have basic health insurance rights, which are very different in Slovenia from one region to another. Among them are mostly unemployed or otherwise socially endangered individuals. That is why it seems important to us that the resources to ensure their health care are provided from one source, namely the State budget. We can see that some projects to resolve the unresolved situation of such persons have been successfully demonstrated by the Minister among others with the project in Ljubljana. In the past period, the Minister has also successfully reduced waiting periods, particularly for the most common heart and blood vessels, grey marbles and some orthopaedic procedures. With rapid, intervention interventions, he also solved such problems as management structures, management in health care homes and hospitals, which are expected to be actively involved in solving the immediate problems. The most significant are cases of a Maribor hospital, a cell hospital, and an autumn hospital. It is also not foreign to solve and intervene in the work of professional commissions that supervise work on national investments. A mere reduction in waiting periods in cardiac and cardiovascular operations has helped to resettle 20 years of long-standing problem of finding a suitable location for the Trnov hospital. His ideas and ideas are so successfully resolved. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is essential to maintain doctors of specialists, pediatricians and school doctors at primary level in the health care network, in order to ensure the health care of children and young people, as well as doctors of specialists, gynaecologists, in order to ensure the health care of women, of course as a selected doctor. Minister Keber fully supports such a position. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we view as positive and correct that health reform puts the patient, patient, insurance and user at the heart of the patient, as a responsible individual who clearly and justly requires the realization of his rights. We also advocate the introduction of an advocate of patient rights, which Minister Keber does not oppose, because he believes that this is also one of the mechanisms for the consistent implementation of all reforms and requirements, as well as, in part, monitoring, implementation. Because we believe that the Patronage Service represents the types of the health system in the field and as such the link between different professions in solving health problems in families, for example, they include social worker, educator, psychologist, sociologist, as an active team, we will continue to do so. Given that the reform correctly notes that the number of patients and elderly in need of care at home as part of an extended hospital treatment has been increasing recently, we are taking and supporting all efforts to introduce compulsory health insurance and home-based treatment. In the United Nations Group, we can see that much has also been done since 2000 in the field of public awareness, the possibility of exploiting all healthcare rights, and that Minister Keber has contributed greatly to this. Finally, let me stress once again that the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will not support the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The views of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President, distinguished Minister with colleagues, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. Several members of the Slovenian People's Party saw a good choice in the composition and performance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this occasion in Dr Dušan Kebru, as the newly appointed Minister of Health for Planning and Policy Management in the field or in the healthcare system, with a well-known fact that a number of changes need to be made, similar to those present in many countries of the European Union. If we want to preserve the stability of the system, this should be in terms of maintaining the scope of the rights and quality and efficiency of health services, as well as more personal re-establishment and maintenance of the financial stability of the system, when, with the drastic increase in the salaries of doctors and the introduction of VAT, the financial situation of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia has deteriorated significantly without the creation of alternative resources for this failure. However, at least those of us who have closely followed the rhetorical entanglement of Dr. Kebra's words in almost every annex to Saturday's work before the last national elections have had a rather pessimistic assessment of whether such a self-sufficient human profile is the right choice. There was nothing particularly different about today's performance by the Minister. The answer to that question did not take long to wait. In some cases, he estimated that Dr Keber’s rhetorical skills had taken serious action to regulate the situation of health service providers, but it appeared quickly that he was the one who produced a number of affairs and with him a unique rhetorical self-sufficiency rather than a solution to the problems. A few of us are convinced that during the good years of the ministry, Dr. Dusan Kebra has had as many affairs as he has not previously had in some mandates together. At the same time, in the event of gross insubordination of itself and its self-sufficiency, the Minister has circumvented the fundamental principles that take a key place in the European Union in the relationship between society and government administrative structure. This is partnership and subsidiarity. For this reason, the practical dialogue within the institutions in the system of health organisations and ministries is virtually nothing. On the basis of this, however, it is particularly worrying that the patient-doctor relationship, which in many ways is decisive for the success of treatment, is being strongly initiated in a negative sense. Health is certainly the value of all the values of all of us, and when it is started, you see in the doctor, you see in the nurse an open window for emergency exit. And this window of politics, if I call it that, which is run by this time by Dr. Keber, is closing more and more. This value, however, means much more to many Members of the Slovenian People's Party than the coalition contract and the fact that they are sitting in two chairs. The interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Health, Dr. Kebra, is essentially based on seven points or reasons. The Minister's conduct in the case of the sale of Trnovo hospital is certainly an instructive example of how the Minister should not act as directly responsible for compliance with legislation and other public regulations and as a good host and consumer of public funds and in this respect with respect to state property. We would like to draw attention to the fact that the question of the purpose of the sale was carried out three-partitely as the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group: the Ljubljana Municipality, the Ministry and the Clinical Centre. In doing so, the Minister has failed to take into account, or by no means has he taken into account, the decision of the Institute of Clinical Centre as the contracting party under which it was established, under which conditions the Council gives its consent for the sale of Trnovo. The Council adopted a decision at the time when the Minister was also a professional director at the Clinical Centre and therefore knew the decision well as a minister. There were two conditions that the money from the sale was only for the needs, costs and the relocation of Trnovo to the clinical centre and the difference should be deliberately spent on the renovation of the clinical department for intensive internal medicine. To implement this decision, the Minister, if nothing else, was in the public interest, which certainly is not the purchase of such expensive premises in Skytičnik for the human resources needs of the Ministry. The Slovenian People's Party's Group accepts the arguments by which the Minister rejects, of course, his own rhetorical way, as unconvincing, flat-rate and not sufficiently reasoned, why good knowledgeers of events know little or no in all other arguments to say much more credible. The question of the construction of a paediatric clinic is an unanswered question for the minister for more or less a period of time. With all the adoptions of the state budgets in this mandate, the investment was both from the presentation of the budgetary memorandums by the Prime Minister, and this is particularly true of the current President of Master Anton Rope, as Minister Kebra, for us and the public, but, in fact, so far, there has been too much interference. If Dr. Keber had gathered at least a little self-criticism, his response would have been a little more credible to the interpolators, at least for us who have been monitoring the work or conduct of the Ministry of Health in implementing this necessary investment for the past seven years. The issue of dealing with issues related to infectious waste will not go any deeper in the position of the Group of Members. The fact is that the Minister's response does not convince us that it is precisely in line with public rules, in this case with the law on public procurement, but the Minister in response with his rhetorical skills that it has been done economically also according to his own judgment, but we are reminded of a slightly different reality. With regard to the interpretation of Minister Kebra's actions on human resources issues, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the Minister does not convince us, by his long justification for his conduct, that it is not a fundamental fault and his responsibility for him to be adopted by the National Health Programme in the National Assembly. And despite the fact that we have already heard from the National Health Programme Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy, Disabled Persons by the Minister, what has been achieved through the National Health Programme remains the fact that for many of the problems that arise in the implementation of health activities, it is necessary to seek the root cause of the Ministry's unwillingness, with Dr. Kebra to implement the key elements of the National Programme through the planning of the Ministry's policies into life, and the question of establishing a public health service network in the Republic of Slovenia, both at the primary level and especially at the secondary and tertiary level, and only to establish a number of necessary standards without which the provision of health services cannot be improved. The answer or rejection of the interpolators' arguments on this issue does not convince members of the Slovenian People's Party that Minister Keber would be prepared at least further, and that, thank God, his mandate will soon expire, to enforce an important principle, a principle which is still important for modern governments, and that is subsidiarity. For the Minister has not been ready all the time and is not ready to allow individual health areas more self-regulation through the assembly organisation and thus the implementation of a series of rules and procedures, as well as the search for a way out of such or otherwise. This includes solving human resources problems. According to our firm belief, Minister Keber did not seek to establish a partnership dialogue, nor with a key House of Housing, this is a Medical Chamber, but only to try to make it possible to carry out better health activities in order to enable the substantive functioning and establishment of chambers of other health professions and fields. In my presentation as a presentation of the Group's views, I will only touch on the short subject of interpretation on the issue of the preparation or implementation of health reform. Health and related health care is for every citizen and citizen, every citizen of our country, the area and the issue which, in terms of reform, is not only the Minister of Health and thus the Ministry, nor is it just a matter of government, but of all citizens and citizens. As Minister Keber did, with all due respect for the excellent professional and many other references he has, has embarked on or set up a reform, we believe that this is a unique example in us comparable countries in solving such issues, let alone in the countries of the European Union. Good first for the health insurance system, it is said, for the issue of money collection as well as for health care as a whole, that both individuals and many institutions were aware of this simplified and, in the first place, all too populism approach and helped that, despite the fact that Minister Keber spent a lot of money on this project, this attempt stopped where it is now - it is at the beginning and end. And that is good, because, seriously, the European Union is comparable, and this is in the sense of a permanent effort to change and complement the healthcare system and thus health insurance, it is said, a comparable reform will be set up by the Minister in the new mandate, regardless of which parliamentary parties will come from. With the strong support of the current Prime Minister, Minister Keber, with his project of the White Paper in a populist way in terms of political marketing, has clearly expressed himself at the time of the election of the President of the State and also of the local elections, so misused the three great principles that mark our social and health insurance, namely solidarity, justice, equality, and thus marked the existing system as completely unfair and insolvent, that, when he wants to make it practically dependent on public money and a managed ethically outside state, he must, as the only health system within the European Union, have failed to call or replace the Prime Minister. When we know how much specific and sensitive content of this difficult issue is being addressed, for example, in Germany, France, Minister Keber would like to sell his white book to our people for an earful of beautifully heard perpetum mobile phones, we will pay less, we will get more. It is also good that, in the event of existing solidarity after one year of directorship of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, Mr Miklavčič seriously asked this day that some existing rights should be checked or reduced if we want to stabilise the financial situation of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance without additional money. Not only are we few who claim that the basic object or red thread of the entire health reform submitted or, if you want, the White Papers abolishing voluntary supplementary insurance, which, on the basis of reciprocity as a second valuable moment in addition to the great solidarity in compulsory health insurance in the existing health insurance system, provides for the possibility of recognising and enabling insurance companies to benefit from the full range of rights and services, transferring these funds to public funds and then replacing the loss of these funds with an additional tax. However, public funding is certainly unacceptable for the Slovenian People's Party's Group and others in that country, if nothing else from the macroeconomic origins is unacceptable and, as a unique contrast to the actions of many richer countries in the European Union. We therefore reject such an approach in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The reform that has been undertaken is practically focused on the field of health care minimally and even more to the detriment of primary health care. To reflect on the consequences that can be expected from the fact that the 2005 State budget for the Ministry of Health, and even to some extent for 2004, has already been formulated in terms of the impacts or solutions that will be adopted and legally brought about by health reform. In June, a kind of public debate on the White Paper has not yet been reached by the proposer with any reply, and it is clear to the serious expert in this area that such a health reform, which is highly subjective, is judged only by the Minister, unless there is anything else to be written in the law, especially when we consider how the ill-advised and incomplete solutions are accompanied by more or less by all the laws tabled by the Ministry of Health in this mandate, not to mention the law on medical care at all. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also do not understand the views of Minister Kebra that health reform has already begun once, and secondly, it must be addressed by the National Assembly. Regardless of what we have heard from the Minister about all the superiority of the success of this mandate, but we have heard this many times before, which borders not only on rhetoric and visionaryness, but on the basis of almost Messianicism, at least some in the parliamentary group, at least those who somehow instinctively establish our own caution in such rhetoric, will be well thought out either by interpolation and the full functioning of the Minister in this mandate be in our confidence or not. Of course, we have already decided on this in the Group of Members, immediately after the intervention was announced, without particularly deepening into the content of the interpolation; we have deepened those accompanying Dr. Kebra's work as Minister of Health for the entire mandate. However, we leave, of course, it is entirely possible that the performance, as it has been so far, will convince the future Minister, Dr Kebra, the Minister of Health, of one of our Members, but that is their judgment and their will to act. Mine has certainly been clear from the very beginning. For Slovenian health and health it is worth doing more than rhetorically intertwining words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you. Igor Štemberger, the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are surprised that the interpretation against the Minister of Health has not been filed much earlier. Both professional and public work at the Ministry of Health are not at all satisfied. More. The Minister is in constant conflict with doctors, and the public is increasingly protesting because of the deteriorating health services. In the Party of Young Slovenia, they would have supported the intervention of the Minister of Health long ago, and they would have invested it themselves, but unfortunately, experience from the past has taught us that this makes no sense, since only colleagues from the National Party have supported us in such matters so far. The Minister's interpretation shows that he is being mistreated for state property. Trnovo Hospital was sold or more or less replaced for several offices in the centre of Ljubljana. The price difference was not intended for the Clinical Center as it should have been for it to solve its acute spatial problems. This action is a judgment of value and the former mayor of the richest Slovenian municipality can only be satisfied with the lack of hands for a remarkable business that has been sustained at the expense of the non-economic Minister of Health. It would be unfair for all the crosses and problems of the pediatric clinic and to blame the fact that the pediatric clinic is still not standing, to impose only on Minister Kebra; many ministers are already guilty of it because they are not more committed to solving problems in the construction of the clinic, for new and new audits of the project, for a new and new extension of the construction work, for violating the law on the construction of the pediatric clinic and could still be listed. The construction of a paediatric clinic has already been extensively mentioned in this National Assembly, particularly with regard to the funds earmarked for its construction in recent years. In 1996, a law was passed on the construction of a pediatric clinic, and if construction were to take place under this law, children would already have a hospital in 2001. Its construction has been blocked since the beginning of the plans, the purchase of land, the preparation of permits and the like, and it is clear that the construction of this urgently needed facility could be accelerated to the point that the government would not propose new and new audits that not only prolonged the construction of the paediatric clinic but also irritated the project from year to year. In 2001 the Law on the Construction of the Paediatric Clinic ceased to apply and the construction itself continued beyond the attempt to purchase land and to start regulating the documentation did not come into force, so we included the construction of the pediatric clinic in the Law on Investments in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. This includes funding for a new paediatric clinic from 2003 to 2007 and 2006 when the new paediatric clinic is to be handed over to users. Until then, it's only a year and a half, but the construction work has barely begun. In 2002, Minister Kebra carried out another revision of the procedure, the so-called Australian audit, for which a great deal of money was spent again. I would not particularly go into the urgency and necessity of this audit. Nor did the report, which was issued at the request of the administration for the construction of the paediatric clinic, re-assurance was given by the Ministry of Health that the hospital was planned so that possible enlargements or hopes could be reversed if the current trends in the decline in birth and migration were reversed. The management found that the hospital rooms were too small, 2 beds per 16 square metres, and stressed the need to provide an additional emergency bed for one of the parents of each child or adolescent regardless of age. In 2003, the Ministry of Health decided whether to introduce a system of public-private society in the construction of a new paediatric clinic in Ljubljana. Therefore, the tender for construction and craft works for the new paediatric clinic was announced for the summer only on 5 December 2003. Since this is an unverified and untested way of managing or building a public hospital, which is also part of the university research and education system, we rightly wondered whether the decision on public-private society would lead to further delays in construction. The Ministry did not decide to introduce a model of public private society in the case of a paediatric clinic, and an invitation to construction and crafts works was issued, but only at the end of last year. It was also complicated by the State’s incomprehensible treatment of tenants who were staying at the clinic site that the State was unable to arrange for the signatures of the rental contracts in a timely manner. When the State began to regulate the signatures of the rental contracts in 2003, there were misunderstandings, as agreements were not taken into account by the Ministry or the relevant government service when renting apartments or moving in 2000. It is in such procedures that we believe that the Minister is responsible for the complexity and timing of the procedures for the construction of the paediatric clinic and the delay in its construction, and therefore we believe that the interpretation at this point is fully justified. The so-called health reform. The publication of the White Paper opened a public debate in Slovenia on health reform prepared by the Ministry of Health. Even in the Young Slovenia Party, we are aware that changes in the health system are necessary, but we are afraid that the consequences of imperfect and defective reforms in the future will be borne mainly by today's youth, as the White Paper does not contain any calculations to ensure that young people do not need to be afraid for their long-term health safety. The White Paper, in our view, only solves short-term problems of sub-financing of health care, but offers no answers for the future. The major change announced by the proposed health reform is the financing of healthcare, which is justified by the Ministry of Health's argument of greater fairness and solidarity. The reform is intended to abolish existing supplementary health insurance, and 1.95% is expected to increase the compulsory health insurance contribution rate, as White Paper foresees, on the part of employees only. This would further increase the wage burden in Slovenia, which is already among the most burdened in Europe. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the higher costs of middle-class wages in Slovenia are increasing, i.e. those jobs that we should bet most as a knowledge-based country. Even less taxation of the simplest jobs will still not compete with the underdeveloped countries. However, by over-taxing professional jobs, we will create their non-competitiveness in international trade. The net salary would be reduced by a new contribution, except for the minimum wage paid, which will increase the pressure of employees and their representatives to increase salaries by making up for the reduction of net wages and pensions due to the introduction of a new health contribution. As this will be the case for a compulsory duty and the payment of the current supplementary insurance premium was on a voluntary basis, employees' representatives will base their claims on this very basis. Macro-economists have already calculated that one of the major macroeconomic effects of health reform will be the pressure on inflation, and the effects that reform will have on the labour market are also important. The introduction of a new tax would significantly reduce the share of private health care resources while increasing public spending and thus spending. This leads to a deterioration of the public financial situation, as public expenditure on health will have to be increased, not only by replacing current supplementary health insurance premiums with a higher contribution rate, but also by increasing health expenditure resulting from demographic movements, further development of medical professions and technology, new medicines and their increasing consumption. At the same time, the reform changes the current system with reservations to the system of casual payment, thus abolishing reservations that are very important for maintaining the long-term health safety of our citizens. They are designed to ensure that the funding system is not too dependent on public finances, where major fluctuations can occur. The health systems in most Western countries with which Slovenia wants to compare are functioning in the same way. Because of changing the structure of the population and the growing needs of older generations, such systems are becoming increasingly difficult and everyone is making reservations. Last but not least, we are aware of this, because we have already taken the first step in the booking system with the pension reform. Reservations ensure that the premium does not increase in the future due to the change in age structure, as the younger generations with reservations provide age security. In recent discussions of the Minister, it has often been heard that reservations are bad, which of course is not true. If we say completely simplified what reservations mean: each of us who treats our money carefully always has something on the bank in a bad time account, and that is also the role of reservations. Reservations are not a waste of money, but a well-spent money. However, the revenues from the investment shall be returned to health insurance for the purpose of covering their damage. Of course, we can also live from hand to mouth, we can try, but we wonder if the funding system, which is almost completely public, is really stable in the long term. Where are we gonna get the money when the health department runs out again? Can someone assure us that the financing of the public system will be more stable in the future than ever? Health care funding would become almost entirely dependent on public finances by increasing the contribution rate, undoubtedly reducing the long-term stability of the system. Therefore, such consequences and the ability of Slovenia's public finances to withstand this should also be taken into account in the long term. In this regard, let us also express the importance of increasing public health expenditure at a time when the share of public funds in other areas, such as the pension system, is falling significantly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, seeks to find an effective partnership between public and private capital. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are committed to a health reform that would not only bring about short-term financial problems, but would provide a long-term stable health system that will also provide our generation with health care in a later period. Since the state and the economy alone will not be able to bear the burden of increasing costs in health care by means of public funds and additional wage burdens, we believe that a long-term stable system can only be established in the cooperation of public and private resources or in the cooperation of the public and private sectors. The key problem at this point is not increasing solidarity by eliminating voluntary health insurance, but by controlling costs and quality control. There are still too many people in health care who don't want to change. The proposed new healthcare contribution is not about any single innovation, but simply about an increased contribution rate for compulsory health insurance, which is raised only by employees. It is therefore a matter of returning to previous solutions, the difference is that the rate of contribution would not increase by equal treatment between workers and employers, but that the burden would be on employees only. At the same time, there will be an increased risk of irregular payment and adjustment of the base for the contribution rate, an occurrence which is a major problem in compulsory health insurance. The transfer of voluntary insurance to the compulsory will result in a change in labour supply, a reduction in savings and an increase in inflation, as those who would be encouraged by insurance would seek to increase net wages to the previous level, thereby increasing inflation due to wage adjustment. Reformers argue that the introduction of a new health contribution will increase access to health care for those citizens who have not yet been provided with supplementary insurance and therefore have less access to health services. In the same breath, they claim that almost all adult citizens are additionally insured. The reform promises new forms of voluntary health insurance, but does not bring any changes. These forms of voluntary insurance would already exist if there was an offer and a need. Therefore, unless compulsory health insurance covers practically all services. Without significant changes in the organisation of health service providers and changes in the coverage of compulsory health insurance, all voluntary health insurance would be reduced to a few percent of the current level, which would have serious consequences for all Slovenian insurance. To date, the Minister has not been able to explain what the basic package of rights, which will be covered by compulsory health insurance, will contain at all. A large part of the health hole is due to the value added tax introduced in 1999. If the state brought him back to the health care facility, as they do elsewhere, he would have filled it in in part. The White Paper does not guarantee the sustainability of funding, but abolishes complementary voluntary insurance, which has been the only one to have made long-term reservations. In preparing the reform, the Ministry refers to greater fairness and solidarity, forgetting the following: for those who really cannot afford the existing supplementary health insurance, there is a solution within the existing legislation, the Health Care and Health Insurance Act. Therefore, we do not need any 300 or more sides of long-term reform, but we can make a decision that compulsory health insurance covers all rights for socially disadvantaged people. Justice and solidarity are therefore only populist pre-election arguments. The country should provide health reform only for the part of the population that is truly unable to pay supplementary health insurance premiums after all personal benefits. Because of all of this, we believe that every tolar that has been thrown into the 300 pages of the long White Paper is irrationally lost, and Members of the Young Slovenia Party will not support such a reform of health, and that is why we will be so much easier to support today's intervention against the Minister of Health, Mr Dusan Kebra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. He will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are going to talk about interpolation against Minister Kebra, although I think this is a related matter, which is also very intertwined with the health department, or what it is already called, led by Mr Miklavčič. It's about the interlocking between these two people and some others. But let's go in one order. The first point of interpretation was Trnovo Hospital. Trnovo Hospital was sold to Ljubljana City Municipality or replaced for old dental premises in Štefanovo 1 in Nestičnik. However, the methodology for determining the value of both properties was different and adapted so that it fucked favourably for the Municipality of Ljubljana, thereby damaging the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Regulation on the conditions of sale and exchange of State property of the Republic of Slovenia, in force at the time of the exchange, provided that the sale of real property could, inter alia, be made on the basis of a direct contract if the exchange is in the public interest and the supplier is only one and the value of the State property is not reduced by replacement. In this case, at least two of the three conditions were violated or were not met. In order to conclude a direct contract, all three conditions must be met cumulatively. And if we agree to the fact that it is a public interest, there is absolutely no claim that the tenderer was alone. In addition to the municipality or, in particular, other legal entities and even natural persons, where they meet the conditions laid down in the health and social protection legislation, they may perform interventions within the public network, or in addition to the Municipality of Ljubljana, in addition to other legal entities and even natural persons, as well as where they meet the conditions laid down in the legislation on health and social protection, as demonstrated by a number of diagnostic and other health centres and homes for the elderly in private ownership and state concession. Indeed, the municipality has a preliminary right, which only means that it is the first of the same. Wrong and misleading is the Minister's claim that the Municipality of Ljubljana is automatically the only legal provider due to the pre-emptive right and competence to exercise public interest. The way in which the preliminary right is exercised is determined and prescribed. Letters of intent have never been defined as a way of exercising the pre-emptive right, so to speak, this condition has not been fulfilled. The third condition to be met is that the value of State property does not decrease. The value of State and municipal property was identified by the same valuer, who, according to the Minister's assurances, has the power to evaluate state assets. The State has therefore left the care to preserve the value of its assets to the individual who made the valuation on the basis of the contract and, of course, also the payment of the counterparty's chosen evaluator has done so by repairing or eliminating the error of the basic valuation and increasing the beneficial surface of the property in Skytičnik and thus raising the price for almost 50 million tolars in favour of the city municipality. Such an artificial increased price was the basis for the conclusion of the exchange agreement. A little less than 57,000 tolars per square metre of municipally furnished building land on an elite Ljubljana site is a modest ransom and it is easy to imagine the joy of the city authorities, which will certainly sell the auction site for a much higher price, even though it will have to change sooner after the rapid process [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] As we know, even under the leadership of Mrs Vike Potočnik of LDS, or under the leadership of Mrs Danice Simšič, under the leadership of the United List of Social Democrats, will not cause any major problem. [[...]] Of course, the State suffered significantly less, since even of this questionable value it received around 372 million tolls of the purchase, which came after the Minister’s claim to the Minister’s budget fund for investment in public health homes, and it is not possible to ignore the fact that this same fund was deprived of the remaining purchase that the State received in the form of real estate; Article 47 of the Regulation, which was in force at the time of sale or exchange, does not provide for purchases in the form of goods. Since the premises on Stefano 1st neither the Clinical Centre nor any other health establishments need and were therefore deprived of the health treasury for at least 191 million Slovenian tolars, which, despite the overall lack of funds for investments in public health institutions, the Minister has dedicated to business premises, that is to say, there will be luxury business premises in Skytičnik and there will be no facilities in the health institutions. The contract was three-partite, although only two of the parties owned the property in question. Where the object of the contract is property owned by the State, it represents the public defence and the conclusion of the exchange agreement was totally unnecessary, since the municipality should have paid the full purchase for Trnovo in the budget, not that part of the purchase was paid in the form of a property to be used by the Clinical Centre, which it did not need at all, as it would not have left to the Ministry of Office. The purchases obtained by selling or trading are the revenue of the budget and are therefore subject to the principle of integrity. Although the funds are made available to the public health sector through the Minister's claim, they are allocated under the same public financial rules as other budgetary resources and there is no rule or practice that the funds charged to the property must be re-managed in the same institution. The Minister also cites this fact in his reply. It is therefore particularly incomprehensible why it was necessary to conclude a three-partite contract, which provides that the Republic of Slovenia, while owning the premises on Stefanov 1, should have used them as a clinical centre. This provision is totally unnecessary since it was clear at the time of conclusion of the contract that KC, the Clinical Centre, did not need these premises, because it did not use them to carry out the activity for which it was registered, but did not know on the basis of which authority's decision to leave them to the Minister of Health who had reclassified them to business premises and thereby reduced the budget fund for investments in public health establishments for this purchase. By doing so, he wasted 191 million tolars and an additional 23 million tolls to rebuild the premises. The Minister's claim that the Director-General of the clinical centre in Ljubljana had already stated at the time of signing the contract that KC does not need space suggests that the Minister does not know the laws, since the statement of the Director-General is not sufficient for such a decision. This must be the right decision in the world of the institution, and then the real estate in the administration will be transferred by decision of the government to another operator. Here again the question arises why a tripartite contract was needed. Next, we go to point 2 on non-compliance with legally determined obligations resulting in invaluable material damage. The Public Investment Act, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1994-2008, provides in the third paragraph of Article 7 that the Minister must lay down the standards of premises and equipment by 31.12.2000. And that it is the duty of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take this into account when deciding on the 2001 annual investment programme, the Minister argues that the standards for hospital premises and equipment are currently being prepared and that standards and standards for outpatients are expected to be developed by the end of 2004. Even if we believe his claims, the fact remains that a four-year delay in the production of standards has undeniably caused material damage, which is reflected in the overfashionary spatially designed hospitals, and as a result of always new and new redesigns, such as in the paediatric clinic, such as at the Cancer Institute, is reflected in the overfashionable and inadequate use of materials in various interventions in health institutions. In the absence of knowledge regarding energy saving, water and environmental protection, it appears in the design of outdated systems, for example, that it is still trying to return to the Oncology Institute to make old operating halls instead of modular operating halls, which have been adopted as standard in Europe for decades. This is why we have a standstill at the Oncology Institute.It is said that in the lost time of top experts who are wasting time for interruptions at various sessions instead of treating patients, and they are reflected in cancelled and stopped public contracts, and many more would be found. The Minister is therefore responsible for the fact that, contrary to the law he himself has amended and adopted, or adopted through it, the Gremium here, under the strong power of the coalition valor, that the Minister permits disorder in the design, construction and equipment of hospitals, resulting in great material damage. When we talk about affairs, we can list several affairs within the mandate of Minister Kebra. And in this mandate, there were more affairs together than any other affair between 1945 and the term of office of Minister Kebra. The Minister himself created these affairs, causing such a poor public opinion of doctors and health care in general to deepen. He did not choose the means to flirt with the media because, for example, the affair called the Business of the Century, the Operations Table, and the alleged huge profits in connection with the supply of the operating tables, was based on a report by the Commission, which is the basis of the calculation of the so-called prepayment, building on an assumption that was never realized. In short, some of the stories the minister has used very well for his own good. The administrative supervision of the Ministry calculated the damage to the Clinical Center in this business on the basis of the discount that the eye clinic was supposed to obtain for the purchase of 5 tables, the Maquet 5 tables at the ocular clinic, I repeat. The Minister allowed, even though he knew or should have known, because at the time the eye clinic was equipped, the expert director of the Clinical Center was informed that the public was being misled, since the operator for the eye clinic obtained a table based on the subsequent expert decision-making, instead of Maquet’s tables almost five times the cost of the other manufacturer’s table. That is to say, the fact is that the tables purchased were five times cheaper, but in the media war he used what was not done, and is like a media platform calculation for tables that were supposed to be five times more expensive and not even mentioned. When we talk about health reform, it is the responsibility of Minister Kebra to spend a huge amount of financial resources in order to implement the development project for the management of the healthcare system and indirectly for implementation in the White Paper. Nor is it capable of aligning the previous financial part of the reform with the Minister of Finance. Strange activity within the same party, within the same coalition, within the same government, very strange. One wonders what is behind, certainly not something good, and certainly not that Slovenian patients and Slovenian health care and the health of the people in general benefit from it. The White Paper, which is supposed to be the basis of health reform and which is the basis of the reform of Minister Kebra's health, does not provide an answer to some very important questions. Does the proposer intend to replace the current social health insurance system with an ethical one, as indicated by a whole range of proposed solutions? In fact, we are going to a significantly worse position, to significantly worse starting points, which, of course, will be paid by those with the smallest wallet and not by any means the ones with the fat wallet. However, Minister Kebra’s well - spoken words often defeat many, and it is difficult for him to resist if a person is not a good speaker, if he does not listen carefully and if he leaves behind his obliging flossules, usually spicy with some often incomprehensible foreigners. Secondly, we wonder whether and what changes in the rights of insurers will ever occur. I think changes will only get worse, and that's what's happening. We're wondering if it's true he won't pay. We do not believe because we know about the facts of what is happening between people; it comes to doctors who have committed themselves to offering patients the best and best for their health, the most optimal drugs and not looking at money, not to prescribe expensive medicines, but to prescribe some substitutes that usually do not achieve therapeutic effect to the extent that they should. Take the example that an old woman with osteoporosis should not receive calcium because a doctor is punished with 200,000 tolars if she prescribes calcium tablets to this patient and then Minister Keber says, "Let's have more cheese, more milk and milk products, because there's calcium in the dark." What if this patient is unable to eat dairy products because of her specific medical condition? Mr. Secretary doesn't care. The savings are supposed to be there for these few thousand for this poor patient, what the eggshells are or what, I mean terrible. And yet, Mr. Secretary will defend these starting points. I wonder, after all, how can it be that he looks so cruelly at the health of Slovenian people, after all he is also a doctor, and he has sworn. It seems that in some parties, in some coalitions and in some people, oaths are not valid. We also ask ourselves about this White Paper, which laws or regulations will be corrected or prepared for a new one. On May 1st, we enter the European Union, what are we going to do? It appears that the White Paper is only prepared for certain Western European companies to enter the Slovenian health market and that due to the unregulated situation in Slovenia they will be able to interfere with this market share, which will certainly not be small. Surely behind this is the desire to install old operating rooms at the oncology centre in every way and to disregard what should be done - to build modular operating halls. In New Town you can see the difference between the modular operating room and the classic one. And with modular operating halls, Slovenian health care could interfere with the tops of European health care, as this is one of the conditions for a particular hospital to compete for a good enough hospital position to be part of European health care. We will, it seems, get out-of-date operating rooms that will have to be replaced in a while, and, of course, additional commissions again, I don't know who, probably the next Minister of Health, who will certainly be from the same party, from more or less the same ruling coalition. We are also wondering what are the new roles and responsibilities of important decision-makers in the healthcare system so far. Will all of this be passed on to the European Union now, and only certain people will be blessed here, from Europe, who will be able to buy and sell and, of course, collect fat profits in their pockets? The White Paper gives the reader the impression that everything in health care has so far been wrong, all unfair, no equality and solidarity, especially due to additional voluntary insurance. And we know it's not true. We know that today's health situation is significantly worse than it was; that the distribution of patients' treatment is significantly more unfair than ever; that solidarity is significantly less than ever; and that today's health needs to be paid substantially more than ever. For such an assessment, as the White Paper points out, it can be a mere ignorance, a false assessment, but, of course, it can also be the purpose and a precise political and economic interest of the minister and his group, who would in any way like to have an impact on some large sum of funds. The White Paper further underlines the importance of a change in insurance and does not solve the accumulated problems in compulsory health insurance, that is to say mandatory bases, regular payments, abstention, maintaining the autonomy of compulsory health insurance - it is simply a matter of misleading the public and I think that this is simply not the case. If we turn a little more to others, specific cases committed by the minister. Let us take a number of public invitations, such as the completion of the operation block of the general hospital Novo mesto, which I mentioned earlier, and the medical equipment of the maternity ward of the general hospital Murska Sobota. The tenders were placed under review because the Minister apparently, as in many other cases, had prejudged one tenderer. And this is Molliere from Celje. By the fact that he first requested the registration of the medical product offered at the Agency for Medicinal Products at the time of the submission of the offer, which is of course normal and this is also required by the Act on the transport of medical devices, and then the Ministry of Health sent a letter that registration was required upon the signature of the contract. Because he didn't have Mollier's license at the time. It's a typical bluff. And how can we control whether the tenderer has obtained a registration and how can we act if he cannot obtain it? Then, because of the collapse, the minister sent a circular to remove the operating tables from the above-mentioned broadcasting order. Of course, because Mollier first found that he could not even register his possibly offered operating tables because he did not have an exclusive representative contract and because his tables are not, even without registration, of course, competitive to the manufacturer of the previously submitted tables, Maquet. So both facilities, this is called the New Town General Hospital and the General Hospital in Murska Sobota for two years have been built and unequipped. Next, we can touch upon the contract for the supply of medical and technical devices with the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. Call for an order from the supplier of insulin pumps and consumer material. This was subject to an audit and a decision of the audit committee was then submitted to the effect that the broadcasting procedure was cancelled because the selection was only one supplier and one apparatus for the whole country. This was the order of Medias, Mrs. Diana Dimnik. That Mr. Dimnik who stands for everything together in a lot of cases. This is certainly a violation of the Health Insurance Act and the sub-law, the rules on the exercise of compulsory health insurance rights, which clearly state that access to medicines and medical and technical devices is free. This is said not to be directed towards one company and one producer. Next, the illegal operation of the health insurance office in the procurement of technical equipment for rental. This is a material far beyond low-value tendering, but it is still carried out by the institution following the low-value procurement process. In accordance with Article 96 of the rules, the Office has identified the aids which are to be leased to the insurers and are therefore a basic asset for the institution. However, the purchase takes place through public contracts, with selected companies. These are mostly Simps's, Incom, Sanolabor and so on. Next, we have a problem obstructing public access to data. The conclusions of the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia do not give any insight, despite the fact that an official decision has been issued by the Ombudsman to access public data, that is, Mr Šoltes, that this information must be made public, delivered, presented by the Institute. However, the agency did not prepare them or deliver them. And he's never been called to account. And yet the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia is not an excommunicated institution over all the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, but should be controlled by Minister Keber or the Ministry of Health. That wasn't there. It's total ignorance, and it's also a violation of the law. Then here's the question of Medico, d.o.o. This company is run by Mrs. Meta Zorc. Anyone who goes wrong in medical school doesn't know anything about a lady to say anything good and positive, at least students don't, and neither do her fellow doctors. The lady is expected to establish a third cardiovascular centre in the Republic of Slovenia on the coast, and this centre does not yet provide its services for which the Ministry of Health has obtained a concession on a public contract for carrying out cardiovascular operations. Today, the company does not have an expert team to perform on a public invitation to tender, in a public tender for the proposed action and asks or requests the clinical centre or Professor Gabrielčič to borrow his team to operate in Medicor. This is said to have been chosen by an undertaking which does not have any staff for the activity offered. And in the current competition for the third cardiovascular center was the expert and heart surgeon Dr. Klokočovnik, who, of course, failed to obtain the concessions, although for the services he could immediately, promptically also offer the professional team and the work of this professional team. Of course, it's a Keber-Miklavčič-Zorc link, which is also known. We can go further into a series of such cases, and I am sorry that Nova Slovenija has rushed so quickly with the introduction of the interpretation, because we could prepare it substantially more solidly and substantially more on the basis of the basis, so that we could obtain for the vote against Mr Kebra, also a colleague from the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS, who would be convinced of the exact data. Now this coalition is solid. The LDS has 34 Members, the United List has 11 and DeSUS has 4, which totals 49 Members, so they do not even need their coalition partner of the Slovenian People's Party, who exploits it and tries to show up in front of a wide Slovenian public how to fight for the welfare of Slovenian patients and patients. In fact, she calculated that she could do so, that there would be no harm, that Mr Keber would remain in his position, that no minister of the Slovenian People's Party would have to be replaced and that everything would go on the same way. At the same time, we're supposed to wash our faces. I think that people will see for themselves that this is nothing but a political account, which I am also not entirely sure is not agreed within coalition parties. And that all that controversy about what the People's Party has done, just an agreed game within the coalition, which is supposed to bring some positive points to all these customers that I have listed so far, and show them as some kind of fighter for the good of Slovenia. Thank you very much, Mr. Brenčič. Thank you very much for agreeing. I did not expect, even President Janez Sponik agrees, thank you very much. I'm glad you admitted, I didn't expect this confession here, but fine. In short, once again, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Keber did not justify the confidence that he would continue to be Minister of Health of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we are aware that Mr. Kebra cannot be harmed. We will vote against it and we will be aware that it will be confirmed in this job. I just hope that a few things, at least a few things from a few little mistakes that I said here today, will fix. For better sleep, because he may still remember that the oath of Hippocrates is the same thing that he read once before the departure of his superiors, professors, teachers, and mentors. I think that he should be committed to Slovenian health care, the health of Slovenian citizens and citizens and that he should work harder for these matters and listen a little less to the whispers of various gentlemen, such as Miklavčič, Dimnik and many others. Listening to whisperers doesn't work. They are usually short - lived and benefit those who whisper and hurt those who listen to them. I hope that the Minister will at least stop listening and do something in this direction, which I have directed, on his behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you. And also a presentation of the position of the LDS Club, which will be presented by Mr Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u22	Your Honor! Dr Dušan Keber, Minister of Health, has taken over the area, for which it was already clear in advance that he would receive great attention and reaction to every single move. We have heard a lot of this today, too, the Minister answered in writing and orally, and I believe that certain things will never be explained, if someone does not want to try and if they do not want to face the real situation with what he thinks is right and true, then perhaps when it comes to fundamental things, when it comes to reforms, when it comes to common goals, or when it comes to specific business, when it comes to specific things that are not the subject of the discussion of the National Assembly, but rather the supervisory authorities and those institutions that have to deal with these things. At least two things make it clear that he will receive great attention from the beginning until the end of his term of office. First, due to the accumulated problems and the very rigid, we could say that the health funding system has survived, and secondly, because of the need to seek a broad social consensus for health reform, which is in fact the red thread of all these discussions, and which is behind the opposition to Minister Kebra, however it seems that it is not so and that we are dealing only with specific mistakes, with failure, laziness, deception or with what else with Minister Kebra. Slovenia is not the only country to implement health reform and is not the only one with exceptional problems in this change. In many countries, reforms have also failed, due to resistance from one group or another and also due to political opposition, due to interference with different interests. Medical statements have increased the proportion of health wages at the expense of other healthcare services, and medical unions have made new demands, particularly after the simultaneous unloading of doctors and better paying on-calls. On the other hand, the outdated system of hospital care funding, which sent money to where it had the highest capacity and where patients were needlessly held in the hospital, not where they had the most challenging cases. There have been almost no public discussion of possible professional errors or health care errors, so that such a critical treatment would undermine the relationship of trust between the doctor and the patient. As a result of the ageing of the population and the increasing supply of new and often very expensive health services, while the social partners are not prepared for the smallest increase in the health contribution rate, losses have accumulated in the public system, while private insurance companies offering voluntary supplementary insurance, which is on a voluntary basis by name alone, have been able to raise premiums and pay large profits and make reservations. The equipment was largely outdated, and for some major investments, such as the construction of the Paediatric Clinic and the Oncology Institute, it seemed that they would go on indefinitely. Even today the health situation is not pink. Even more so, because of many affairs and also various public objections to Minister Kebra, the system appears to be even more critical. But a more detailed view of things in the face of all the problems that exist, and a view that is not blinded by client interests, quickly reveals that there are major changes in health care, that health reform has practically begun. It is understandable that any change breeds resistance, as any change also means uncertainty for all participants, is understandable, but it is not justifiable that such a significant social change is so scrupulously resisting and rejecting it without going from problem to problem and trying to see things in real light. In the first part of his term of office, Minister Keber, by opening a public debate on professional errors and a wasteful system of financing and poor health care organisation, has reached into too many interests, and many now want to present him as a state enemy of the medical state. By their logic, everything he does does is wrong. And even more, if he does something, it's wrong if he doesn't do it, it's even more wrong. For example, when he legalized the restrictions on duty because doctors complained that they were violating their rights to rest and that the European directive, which is true, required that the law be inanimate and that it would endanger health care, and the violation of the law of Cebro suddenly became a virtue or a sign of self-sacrifice. So once like that, another time. When he took vigorous action to clear up certain reverberations that pointed not only to severe, irrational spending of public funds, but also to traces of crimes, such as fraudulent double-counting of erythropoietin by some hospitals or the insidious exchange of operating tables at the Clinical Center, he was asked to resign himself, if he was objectively responsible for it, because the affairs had taken place in his department and at his time. Prior to the outcome of the White Paper on Health Reform, the Minister was publicly questioned about his commitment to reform. There really wasn't a time, and we were expecting some of the others before, but she came out. And when this white book came out, they said it was too late for the reform anyway, so never right. Then they searched for possible errors in the text of the White Paper, including the smallest and most banal ones, with such a glimmer that it was immediately clear that it was not a serious discussion of reform, but only for the assault and ridicule of the minister, who would eventually discredit or prevent any reform intervention into health. The Minister, whose mandate will be far from the largest investment in healthcare since Slovenia's independence, including the completion of the main work now in the decades of the construction of the new oncology institute, has been seen as an obstacle to new construction, such as the faster construction of a new paediatric clinic. As can be seen from the interpolation or response to it, the interpolators even detect delays in or unresolved things that he has actually begun to regulate, such as in the area of standardisation and preparation for the introduction of a quality control system and a programme to address inconsistencies in the public procurement programme. [[...]] During the three - year period of health care in Kebre’s three - year period, it was said that some things were not regulated, but that was the case. There's a lot more I could say. Perhaps he boasted of a matter too quickly, perhaps boasted in advance, and expected that everything he said or simply the National Assembly would accept it as sacred, and that it would produce only positive results. It may also be a way to look at things, but positive things weigh. Although the Ministry of Health has repeatedly made the whole deal public, it is also clear that interpolation is not enough for writers to face the truth or to address actual health problems, it is also clear that they have placed the alleged damage to state property and public health services in the first instance when changing the premises of the former Trnovo hospital with the Ljubljana Municipality. The response of the Ministry, which is before us and which is also supported by the positive opinion of the budget inspection, is only a little more detailed, while all the substantive reasons for changing the legal basis and the justifications of the prices achieved were explained at the press conference a long time ago, and I have read most of them, believe it or not, from the media. What is the purpose of this constant repetition of one and the same unfounded accusations, if not to follow the principle that the repeated falsehood will ultimately be responsible for the self - imposed truth. In the end, writers themselves reveal themselves as biliary opponents of the reform when they flat-rately jump on the white book on health reform and when the material intended for public resonation, public debate, gathering comments, seeking common solutions without any effort to at least minimally justify their findings, declare false, unclear, inconsistent, confused and even, believe it or not, dangerous. If such a way of interpreting ministers would be a standard in this area, then the State Assembly, not only could, even every month, and not just once, have to deal with each minister individually. I believe that this does not lead in the right direction, because interpretations are an exceptional means to be used when there are truly justified allegations of wrongdoing, exploitation of the situation, deception and so on. The White Paper is, in fact, a major project for the reconstruction of health care, namely to raise the first goal, to abolish the quasi-voluntary insurance for payments, undoubtedly the most sensitive. The abolition of payments and insurance based on intergenerational reciprocity, but not on social solidarity, is considered by critics to mean the destruction of the body of avant-garde supplementation of health resources with private resources introduced in the early 1990s. Well, if the constant increase in the share of health services that needs to be settled from their own pocket in the form of all the same insurance premiums is a revolution, then such real subsidisation by the poor is a conservative revolution, which I think would not be ashamed of even the most biting conservatives, even though I believe they are not small. However, healthcare is a constitutional right, and one of the foundations of and access to a social state will soon decide whether we will live a few decades longer than today. Health care is a technological and organizationally sophisticated system with unevenly distributed or accessible capacities, which is incomprehensible to the common mortal, and in particular new services and medicines are often extremely expensive and unattainable. Therefore, health, at least for Europe, will always be characterised by a high level of social regulation, combined with limited and strictly controlled privatisation. Taking into account the known information on operating costs and profits in both private insurance companies dealing with voluntary health insurance, we see that these combined are almost seven times higher than the costs in the public health insurance institution of Slovenia. Let me remind you that one of these two insurance companies enjoys an almost monopolistic position on the quasi-free market of voluntary supplementary insurance; that it has been established and put on its feet by a state insurance undertaking, technically and financially, and that the source of very profitable assets is apparently automatically provided to it without having to make a lot of effort on the part of the insurance company's management. It is strange, therefore, that the director of this insurance company, according to the latest media data, has the second largest salary in the entire insurance sector, the salary, which is said to be once more than that of an interoperable minister. His insurance company is also public, which is most important in this story, as I say now, and has also strongly opposed the proposed reform. So, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? Otherwise, who could not defend their privileges or their money earned in every way? Nor would it be the first time, if we remember, for example, that the US has already been mentioned today to help bring down health reform, which should place a fairer burden on all segments of the population and ensure equal access to health services for all. All this earning money should be left in health care from now on, based on the design of health reform. The reform is also intended to increase the basics for the collection of health contributions, making it more equitable for the most powerful citizens to be burdened. For example, self - employed people who have paid only minimal contributions so far, although their standard of living has often exceeded the average. As has already been reported to the public, the government has agreed on a way to introduce solidarity into supplementary health insurance and at the same time address the shortcomings that have led to the fact that so far significant insurance funds have been effectively diverted from the health system. This should be achieved by amending legislation to provide, on the one hand, for the creation of supplementary health insurance premiums in relation to income classes of insurers and, on the other hand, by controlling the creation of premiums, by abolishing age provisions and introducing equalisation schemes between insurance undertakings and by providing that the ability of the benefit of such insurance is to invest only for the benefit of the insurers also to ensure a more rational use of these assets. It is therefore only a slightly different path, after which we will achieve the objectives of the White Paper on Health Reform, without jeopardising in any way our public financial objectives, which I believe are very close to everyone, as we all expect a stable toll and an early entry into ERM 2 and the euro area. Formal private insurance will thus be equivalent to public insurance. However, the right additional health insurance will have to be provided by insurance companies offering insurance for actually superstandard and not for existentially important health services. With the appropriate insurance organisation, new private health resources could be acquired in this way, which would also partially relieve the public system. With obvious embarrassment, trouble, threats, whatever you want, interpolation writers, a large part of health reform is actually happening. Until recently, hospitals received most of the funds under the BOD system, hospital care days, distribution of funds followed expectations and planning of operators, rather than the needs of the population, and human resources were adapted to capacity, causing constant pressure on new human and material resources. This system inhibited the rationalisation of the lying age and the introduction of daytime treatment. This lay-down period required more nursing staff, as well as doctors. At the same time, funding punished attempts to shorten the lullaby period and inadequately took into account that patients differ significantly from one another after the difficulty of treatment. This year's comprehensive introduction of a new model for the allocation of funds in accordance with the principle of so-called groups of comparable cases will increase the efficiency of the use of resources in health care and reduce waiting types. April will be completely this year, so separate us a few days before the full payment of hospitals after the difficulty of treatment. This method of allocation of funds will encourage the hospitals to make organisational changes in order to produce positive financial effects in the long term. The estimated savings over the next three years will range from 2.7 billion to 5.4 billion dollars. In addition, this model will allow the reduction of waiting hours for operations and other treatments where waiting can endanger the patient’s entire life. In this way, the health reform forecast on reducing waiting periods for emergency interventions will start this year. In the LDS Group, we are convinced that Minister Keber deserves support for what he has done and for further work on health reform. Such interpretation, as is today's, with flat-rate accusations, without justification, asking questions about the things already explained and with obvious misrepresentations, is obviously addressed to him and all of us, stealing valuable time.We would all be happy together, probably the Minister and we, constructive comments and suggestions for regulating such an important social area as health care, as this requires the widest consensus, and I hope that after this meeting, after the reform, which is necessary and planned, will continue its course and cannot be postponed into any uncertain future, let alone stop it and after the rejection of the interpretation, that we will continue this path together. Of course, we object to interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you and this concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The debate will be followed by a debate between Members and Members, within the framework of the joint planned time of each Member Group. I will give my word to the first debater Ivan Kebrich - he is no longer available, I apologize, so I will give the floor to Mrs Maja Zupan for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear colleague and colleague, distinguished Minister of Health! In your performance, you have already mentioned something about measures in the field of health care and about the number of nurses. But I would like you to tell me how you got this number. I believe that it is necessary to legalise baselines of needs, regulations by nurses and medical technicians based on the category of complexity of the patient in terms of medical needs. The error in the White Paper regarding health reform in the field of health care and, in this regard, in the number of nurses submitted, is either negligence or conscious deception; both are unacceptable and unacceptable. To Chapter 3.2.2 on page 308, which identifies and compares the number of nurses in the European Union countries per 100,000 inhabitants, I quote: "The comparison between countries is unreliable, as some countries consider nurses with higher and higher education, others including Slovenia, as well as health techniques." In the White Paper, you state that we have 727 nurses per 100,000 inhabitants, a little less than the average in the European Union. However, the Health Care Workers' Union, which represents workers in this area, considers that the comparison is not correct and should take into account the exclusive number of nurses without medical technicians. If presented this way, Slovenian health care would be far below the European average with only 168 nurses per 100,000 inhabitants. T, there are 795 sisters per 100,000 inhabitants. Moreover, Greece, with only 257 nurses per 100,000 inhabitants, would be lagging behind, at least in the European Union. The call of a nurse, I mean with higher and higher education, is one of the five regulated professions in health care, which means that in the countries of the European Union and those countries that enter it, both education and all legislation must be aligned with European directives. Regulation of regulated professions is therefore prescribed and these professions are therefore comparable between countries. According to the union calculations, we're short 627 nurses per 100,000 inhabitants or a total of over 12,000. These findings should therefore also be followed in the section of the Predicted Employment of Health Personnel in point 2.1.4, where up to 2007 approximately 1000 new healthcare workers are envisaged to be employed. The employment programme is inadequate and does not reflect the actual situation, as a simple calculation shows that it would be necessary to employ about 12 000 new nurses in Slovenia in the future in order to achieve the European average, which is impossible to achieve, and therefore the planned employment plan would need to be extended beyond 2007. From the Minister of Health and all those responsible for health reform, we would expect more expertise and cooperation with the representatives of health care workers, as we are aware that without an adequate number of nurses in hospitals, in health homes and in the infirmary they will actually cripple you. The consequences of the lack of nurses in Slovenia are already reflected in the exhaustion of employees and poor quality of care for patients. Such underestimation and neglect of an area that is extremely important in the treatment process is not acceptable, requires accountability at the highest level, as it does not create in patients and citizens the general hope that Slovenian health care will also become more qualitative and at least approximately comparable to European requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The text for the debate is by Bojan Kontic, United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Interpellation, both today and tomorrow, is aimed primarily at refocusing the work of the coalition and its government just a few months before the elections in order to demonstrate, above all, the unwarranted warning of the opposition's lack of personnel by the ministerial team. I even allow myself to be judged as choosing ministers in this regard in a way that would lead to the dissolution of the coalition or at least a dispute that would constitute an obstacle to the fulfilment of the coalition agreement, whose implementation or, rather, a possible failure to implement in the electoral campaign would be evidence of the incapacity of the current authorities. In doing so, the Ministers of the Slovenian People's Party were released because, despite all the concerns and comments made in this Chamber, they are likely to be indispensable in the search for a route to power. Minister Keber is the minister I have addressed most of my questions to him in this mandate; most of them I have not been satisfied with his answers. It bothered me and still bothers me that, for example, in Velenje, despite the fact that this is recorded in the National Health Programme for all until 2004, we still do not have a health care unit. But I am sure that we have taken a second, better path, which will soon lead us to our goal, this is the regionalisation of Slovenia and thus a region that will bring us closer to the activities that are now taking place in too many regions or perhaps even wider. However, despite my individual objections to the Minister, I am firmly convinced that he is doing his work of quality and that he will also successfully complete his work in this mandate. For health care is an activity that we meet people daily and we are still sensitive to quality and accessibility. In addition, it is a system which must not, in itself, depend on the successive changes in the Ministerial Assembly. The Minister has maintained a public health network with the co-workers at the primary level in the manner set out in the national programme, and this is at least a very important information for me. The management of private health care was aimed at overcoming the monopoly of public institutions and creating opportunities for competition between the public institution and the concessionaire and, of course, the possibility of choosing by the insurer. At the same time, during the period of Minister Kebra there is the principle of maintaining a healthcare home, which is a combination of health prevention and curative. In 2002, the Ministry made recommendations for the award of concessions at the primary level and stressed the responsibility of municipalities for the smooth functioning of the public health network. The municipality, as the founder, must thus ensure that the healthcare home is not only maintained, but to ensure, by its scope, a sound financial operation, including the organisation of the service. The activities of potential privacy should be included in healthcare facilities. There was something about health-care-related events, either in the procurement of equipment or in the implementation of the basic activity itself. Certainly a reason for critical assessment of the functioning of health care and events within the system. However, I can only conclude here that Minister Keber has repeatedly responded to the events and contributed his share to the search for causes and to remedy the consequences. In addition, Dr. Keber, a minister who has also introduced a certain dynamic into this area through his modus operandi, which we still missed a few years ago with a minister from another party. It is important to stress in this regard that the weaknesses that we have been alerted to in the past have taken root when Dr. Keber was not yet Minister. A special story is a story related to the White Book. Following the initial approval of the reform, which many, including the professions, have estimated necessary, the public has come to the fore with the idea of what the minister and the White Paper are abolishing. There's been a lot of spent ink, a lot of said words about intervention at the primary level, when the minister shuts down the pediatricians and gynecologists and what else could be found. This would, of course, be a sign of alarm and also a reason to think about replacing the Minister. But that is not the case, according to the Minister's assurance. He thinks he's completely out of line. "The level of health care achieved for children and women in our country is so high that anyone who knows the area in more detail may ask why they should abolish something that is good," said Minister Keber. I have no reason not to trust the Minister at this time. The fact that the Minister is not a member of my client is not enough reason for me not to trust him.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you. The word gets Janez Sponik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! Allow me to touch in my short performance two elements of content from today's agenda. First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Minister's opening statement. I could be more personal here, not the last time Professor Keber was my respected professor at medical school. Dr. Keber initially started by presenting great achievements in the field of Slovenian health, positive trends. There is no reason why we don't believe him here and we can share together in all these trends, those that are real, our common joy. It is true, however, that such trends can result from the ten-year work of previous and current teams. This cannot, as a rule, be the result of one or two years of very successful actions by the Minister and his team. Secondly, Professor Keber was also known as a professor for his agility, perseverance, if you also want ambition, and these are elements that are not wrong. And as such he entered Slovenian politics, became minister and with great ambitions, plans also entered into the face of some real problems in Slovenian health, because they are. And then it happened that there were short contacts, there were confrontations of positions of different views, and very quickly there was a transformation, there was a state of increased tone. On the front pages of the newspapers, in shock times in TV houses, these conflicts began to appear with data and mood, which we call an affair. Maybe they won't. Maybe they won't. The minister was right a lot of times. But the way he reacted turned out to be wrong. He may have been overly self-promotional again, entering into these dialogues and duels in person, commenting and evaluating them, but he was not patient, persistent, not of course on the front pages of the newspapers, arguing that all these complications, which are called affairs, were simply to be cleared up to the end. And what else happened? What colleague Brenčič said earlier, as well as some other colleagues. It's a medical affair. This atmosphere gives rise to mistrust. Untrust in the health system. Doctors and doctors, too. And there's this problem that Dr. Keber's minister actually went through a lot of things. But in big things, big projects, he's had a reaction. To the reaction that then gave birth to a counter-reaction, and we were in a situation that I described as having an affair. It can also be a matter of personal style and character. Because when you hit a system as big as the health system, then, if you don't go into this change with dialogue, with partnership, if you don't go with the basic principle and stick to finding consensus, then run and run into a lot of misunderstanding. And that's what happened to Dr. Kebra many times. With regard to the perceptions in the interpolation, he would only touch very briefly on a single area, this is the case of Trnovo, Trnovno Clinic, Stefanova 1. I read very carefully, so first the impressions in the interpretation, then his answer, the ministers, and his teams. And today I listened to him again carefully. My personal opinion is that there have been some procedures in this matter that may be very controversial. For some procedures that may be very controversial. I have observed in the material that it is not answered to the question whether at any time the UKC Council has given its position to leave the premises at Stefano 1 to the Ministry of Health. So, whether it is, it was a three-party contract. It is my understanding that this body, which, however, was a sovereign authority in this third share, did not give this consent as such. Although the minister tried to respond to some of the other findings. Of course, there remains a sensitive issue of valueholders, two attempts to cooperate with the government commission, the human resources commission and so on. So, in this matter, in this exchange agreement, or in this relationship between the government, the municipality and the UKC, it seems to me that the minister and his team should act differently. I also expect the Minister, after answering, to provide an explanation on the issue of a treaty on the destruction of infectious waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Would you like a minister? Not yet. You'll be a river when you want a word. The victory of the Elinčič noble has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We have forgotten another aspect of interpolation, which is also not negligible, namely the destruction of indigenous Slovenian entrepreneurship. The so-called Kebra Law was the strongest hit on vineyarders, who were largely boasting of excellent Slovenian wine, which we will now no longer be able to produce and drink even less. We will probably be able to drink some imported brooch from the European Union, which will make Kebra's Prohibition Law a place in the Republic of Slovenia, so that we can drink here in the long and short term with Belgian beer, Italian, Spanish, French cheap wine. It's not just like that and it's for a waste of time. I think that's when it started thinking about something as it should be in the Ministry of Health. This was the first sign that Mr Kebra's orientations were in fact directed elsewhere than those directed to them for the benefit of the Slovenian state and for the prosperity of Slovenian citizens, not to mention health. After all, we know that there is even a therapeutic remedy in certain quantities and in certain diseases, and Mr Keber has banned it. And if we take into account the fact that alcohol is food, a lot of Dolenjec is going to go to bed hungry because he didn't go to bed hungry before. I don't think we should just push these things aside with our left hand. In Slovenia, Kebra's marriage has also taken a considerable amount of humor, joy, dispersion and people in line with the general functioning of the current coalition are walking around Slovenia increasingly tired, constricted and gloomy. I think we should do more here to get Slovenia back in order for people to have smiles on their faces again, perhaps it would make sense, Mr Keber, to pass the law amending the law and correct what you have done. After all, we are lacking in joy, we are also lacking in uprightness, we are lacking in consciousness, patriotism. For example, today is the 130th anniversary of the birth and the 70th anniversary of the death of our great North Border fighter - so, very nice, I am glad that someone else knows whose – Mr Rudolph Maister, General. And no one or people remembered to honor him with a minute of silence here, but the president of the National Assembly was against it. And perhaps a little unusual, but I would invite all those who worship this man to stand up and give him a minute of silence, to give him the honor he deserves. [[One minute of silence.]] Praise him! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u31	It's got magic in it. Blaze Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have 15,000 babies a year in Slovenia. They do not want to come to the world or their uncondemned parents do not choose to extend their family. To a large extent also because so many people in this love of Slovenia are trying to show off everything black, bad, bad, unseemly. When the opposition and the media, for example, talk about gross social product for last year, they stress that and only that and the whole voice that so far in Slovenia the lowest annual growth of gross social product. They do not mention, however, that the rise in Slovenia's gross social product was three times faster last year than the European average. It's the same in health care. Slovenian health care is good if we are willing to look at it through the prism of concrete internationally comparable parameters. My colleagues and colleagues will tell more about this, and I will focus on business - financial rather than Slovenian health care. Why? Because health care in business - financial terms is a very important and increasingly important part of every modern country. For example, funds flowing in the health sector in some countries in the United States reach about 15% of gross social product. As a result, of course, the interests of the pharmaceutical, insurance and other related industries are also very high. Very gravely speaking, in countries where they have gained a great deal of influence in the field of health, there is a worrying logic, which also leads to the promotion of very high drug consumption and the neglect of prevention. We do not yet see the effects of this type of pharmaceutical industry, but we cannot claim this for the health insurance industry. Interpellation is trying to make a number of mistakes for Minister Kebra. In fact, most of the readings are moving away from really health issues. Interpellation is very biased and very poorly argued, as it does not even address the international comparison of objective performance indicators of the health system. There is no doubt, however, that it is Kebra's proposal for health reform that has led to interpretation. With his concept of health reform, Minister Keber appeared to have shuddered into the business and financial interests of the interested domestic insurance and foreign pharmaceutical industry. At the moment, for example, when the Government's Jestrich Council adopted a proposal to increase solidarity in the selection of healthcare funds, all levers were used by the opposite circles to prevent reform. The criticism of a socially friendly and, as I will later show, an economic logical approach has also been joined by the political opposition. Perhaps the Slovenian Democrats could commend the principle in this regard, since they have little in the name of their party to remove the word and the concept of social. Their criticism of health reform also shows that they have a responsible attitude towards less wealthy foreigners. To a certain extent, however, opposition to health reform can be understandable, but it is not justified. This opposition can be understandable in a psychological sense, as is usually the case naturally and naturally, and health reform is ambitious in this respect, as it foresees significant changes in two fundamental areas. The first area is fund-raising, and another important area is spending. In both key areas, the reform provides for drastic changes. Why am I convinced that the economic concept of reform is correct and socially responsible? Complementary health insurance was introduced in 1992 because of the decision that the State should withdraw from public funding and transfer part of the expenditure to private resources. It could be said that in the current new country, the Reagan health economy has invaded health policy, while there has been no clear evidence of the advantages of private financing of healthcare. Some today claim that the introduction of private resources into the healthcare system was necessary, due to the gap between the possibilities of public funding reached and the health needs of citizens, but it is difficult to establish this. The total sum of the funds collected, expressed in relation to gross social product, remained unchanged throughout the previous decade, which means that the share of public funds has decreased and the share of private funds has increased. Today, Slovenia devotes 6% of gross social product to health care if we look at public funds, which, compared to the 15 current members of the European Union, is classified as a quarter below, taking into account the new members, this city will be even lower. Even the United States of America, which is considered to have the highest level of private financing for healthcare, allocate more than in Slovenia in comparable ratios from public health funds. Before 1992, we already knew the participation in Slovenia, i.e. the payment for individual health services. These are things that had to be paid out of their own pocket. However, the Law in 1999 increased and introduced these supplements practically for all health services while introducing the possibility of voluntary additional supplementary insurance for them. Without a direct allowance from the pocket or payment of an additional or supplementary health insurance premium, the user would not be able to obtain almost any of the compulsory insurance rights. Only children and young people were fully exempt from payment obligations during schooling. The new allowances introduced in 1992 were drastic, ranging from 5 to 75% of the cost of the service, including the most expensive medicines and hospital treatment. It became immediately clear to Slovenians that the payment from the pocket in case of a serious or chronic illness could constitute bankruptcy for an individual. Today, this is how supplementary health insurance pays as much as 95% of citizens who are liable to pay compulsory health insurance; this is also a world record if we look at the area of voluntary insurance. Into substantiates the claim that it is essentially compulsory voluntary insurance. As a result of the uniform amount of the premium, solidarity in financing healthcare has been severely reduced. Today, poorer citizens pay for compulsory health insurance and supplementary health insurance together up to two monthly wages per year, and the richest pay up to a maximum of 86% of one salary per year. The additional paradox is that the entire supplementary health insurance segment has a gain and compulsory health insurance has a loss, although they provide the same services and have four times the cost of operating. It is quite clear that the introduction of additional health insurance has greatly increased the costs of the healthcare system as a whole. Insurance companies offering supplementary health insurance spend 19% of these funds on the operating costs of insurance companies, for the creation of technical provisions and for the creation of, say, very large profits. During the period 1999 to 2002, the difference between gross premium income and calculated damages, i.e. damage expenditure of up to 40 billion tolars. If these 40 billion tolars were available to the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, there would be no shortage in the health system. However, the administrative costs of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute amount to only 3% of the funds raised. Here's where you're supposed to pour pure wine, in spite of Minister Kebra. No social state can be particularly proud of increasing private resources and reducing public resources for health care. Such a change represents the danger of dividing citizens into citizens of the first order and citizens of the second order. To those who have increasingly poor access to health rights and to those who have significantly more rights because they can buy them themselves. Moreover, the costs of public funds are never reduced as much as private expenditure increases, as private insurance companies focus mainly on services of financial interest, although they can only be marginal, of minor importance to health. However, there is much evidence that private insurance companies are increasing the costs of the health system. Evidence of this, however, that private insurance in one country would reduce costs, cannot be found. Even American experts admit that at least half the difference in the wholesale cost of health care is made when compared with the United States of America and Canada, on the basis of insurance costs and profits. If we privatised the health insurance as a whole, public funds would, of course, be the biggest contributor, given that, of course, the public funds would be cut off. However, the health system would become significantly more expensive and citizens would on average be burdened significantly more, but not less. We therefore believe that private health insurance must not play an important dominant role but rather play a role as a regulator of health demand at the margins. On the margin. Therefore, it allows citizens to choose, in addition to the rights set out in the mandatory insurance package, which are and must be equally accessible to all those who need them, some other health services, as a rule, are less relevant. Minister Keber was the first in this country to make public and to anyone who wanted to listen to him understandably explained that today's supplementary health insurance is unfair to the poorest groups of the population. The opposition says it's demagogy and there's absolutely no solidarity. Apparently, he's trying to prevent us from correcting a mistake from the past. Why he's doing this, we don't understand. Has she already announced that, as I have already mentioned, one of the opposition's parties has deleted the word "social" from its name? Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia know that the Minister does not introduce absolute solidarity, but solidarity for those health services that are essential to every citizen when they are ill. This principle is also enshrined in the Constitution. Access to health rights must not depend on the material potential of the citizen. Members and LDS Members are aware of the duties that the social justice state has towards its citizens in the field of health. That is why we will strive to ensure that health reform is also implemented. What is the essence of the proposed modified way of financing health care? The first objective of the health reform is to increase justice, i.e. solidarity in the provision of health care funds. The White Paper on Health Reform has set itself one of the objectives of ensuring that the basic package of health rights is made available to all citizens when paid in proportion to their income. The White Paper foresees the abolition of payments for these rights and an appropriate increase in the compulsory health insurance contribution rate. What happened, you know, despite the fact that the proposal came across broad public support, the shifts in the burden of health care in proportion to income are not largely supported by 80%, only those citizens who understand this are citizens who would have contributed less than previously when this healthcare proposal is implemented, but have also been supported by the majority of those who have contributed more than so far. In support of the proposal, legal experts also pointed out that the constitutional human right to social security, Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and the right to health care, Article 51 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, are being exercised through the right to health services. Constitutional human rights must be guaranteed to everyone, in accordance with Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of the personal circumstances listed in the Constitution and among them the material situation. It is important to underline that urgent and major changes are being announced in this health reform. The amendments, of course, can be opposed by all those who have had in their existing, under-transparent, fair and under-accessible system of benefits, and those who have benefited little have also associated themselves with the profession and with politics. Some of the opponents argue that Minister Kebra is a bottom-up, which is supposed to mean he's sucking up to poor people. It is not about gliding, but it is about the professional and energetic focus on change, changing for the benefit of the poor and for the benefit of the patients, but it can be worrying about the behaviour of those who suck up to powerful and influential individuals and groups in our society. It is known that private insurance companies paid writers who criticized and ridiculed the reform. Of course, the powerful and influential also offer far greater benefits. The opposition is aware that health reform is the right thing to do, so it fights gallantly against it, but it also exposes itself to citizens, informs them that they are against solidarity, that they are to increase private health financing and that they are for two categories of citizens in our society. Those who can afford all health rights with their own money, and most others who only have the most urgent rights in a poor public system. Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia do not want such a country and we will not support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I invite the Minister of Health, who wanted to speak. Dr. Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u34	Dear Members and Members, Madam Vice President! I have this opportunity to come by, and I'll probably also come by to explain some of the questions and comments I've heard so far. And I am sure that this does not only turn to those who have already declared that they have supported interpolation before they have read it, but certainly before they have read the answer to it. I think they're saying that they have a special relationship with the minister, not with the reasons for the interpretation, maybe with the whole government. Here, in fact, and not for the first time in this term - forgive me for being a bit personal at first - people ask or say, because the minister, or, because this man is right, but what if he has such a way. In fact, I can say that I have heard this several times in my life, and by doing so, I will give one of the Members right - it is indeed a question of the way. For example, medical affairs. I could tell you an anecdotes from my previous job, where I wanted to, where I had been a long time ago, and I think I was among the first when I wrote in good old socialism about corruption in health care. Still, I had a strong hope that she was not so much. And then as the expert director of the clinical center, I once had a conversation with some so-called big lobbyist in the health system, and I asked him a question, "So how come they never come to me," and I'm going to use a nice term, "suppliers lobbyists or suppliers?" Inon smiled at me and said, "Well, everyone in Slovenia knows that the last thing that would be good for us is to come to you, because then we will certainly not make this acquisition." Of course, I also wrote about the Kenyan safari, and at the time, in the new country, I received the response of economists not to get to know the so-called new methods of management and lobbying in a market economy country. And on the question of affairs - let me say it relatively in spite of everything - I thought of everything. But I don't create them, I respond to them, and I'll do it as a minister or even if I don't. Now, of course, I'm asking you if we're going to go into that pose, which is also evident to someone else at the next moment, to sweep under the carpet, not to open the affair, or if we open it, we're going to go into a new tactic -- already, we're going to go, but in what way, because, well, it's self-promotion. Let me mention that in any of these affairs you have, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, as well as in my mind, I have not been promoted. Each one was accompanied perhaps at first by a few pluses, at the end of time - and I knew this in advance - because eventually it was the minister's fault. And neither, let me tell you, I didn't respond immediately. The professional affair in the field of gynecology in Jesenica and New Town took months for me to come by and pick up when the profession wanted to get things under the rug. Did anyone wonder if even then they were the beginnings of what you say, what the profession has against the minister or he against it? It's been six months since they told me I was late. In some affairs that are, not because of their scale, but because they have opened up the actual issue of values, system, culture; I am thinking of a cell affair. At the time when it was thought that literally a few ten doctors should have just been sent out of work, then you gave me some silence in this same House so that I wouldn't do anything. In fact, and even in front of my colleagues who may be listening to me, I would say it is difficult to judge correctly and direct yourself on a particular occasion, it is difficult to think exactly what colleague Sponik said clearly, to what extent, to where people think that now that this has opened up, or it means that everything is in crisis, whether everything is wrong or it can benefit. Of course, I am in good faith and also encouraged by many of the voices of my colleagues who say, you know, I am not at the head of my housing organization, it is decided by something, but many think otherwise, I think I am doing the right thing and that the things that we have opened up and that will be cleared up, never again, at least in the field of health, will return to the situation when everything is polished, everything is clear, there will be no mistake anywhere, because I don't think that this is good for the health system. Let me mention that it is, in fact, today, and don't mind me, I don't want to name any, but today it has also turned out that some of you are lobbying in public with me. You're opening some projects, as I told you in my first performance that are yet to happen. I've seen this before. I'm called high-ranking civil servants, powerful people out of politics who say, what, yes, you won't be there, thinking about what we're going to do in advance. Well, if it's clear and clear and if they think their thing's real, then you don't have to lobby in advance. What needs to be sent to me by Members or, I don't know, a high policy of this and other colours in order to check that the Minister will be properly involved in a future decision, for example in procurement. Clearly, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, it is a matter of pressure. Let me mention some specific cases today called. An example of modular operating halls, mentioned today, that we have given up on them, although this is the highlight of new technology and the winch all over Europe has them in standards. None of this is true. The modular operating halls, to say in round, known, unfortunately excited by the manufacturer's present time, are only one of the solutions to the professional conference on this topic. She recently said they're not bringing anything new, professionally better into the system, but they're 200 million more expensive. The Oncology Institute would not, if it had decided on a modular system - that is, simply stated, a factory that brings the operating room and sets it - would have gained nothing in the professional sense and patients would have gained nothing and we do not know any country that would have introduced them into standards. The operating tables, which we are just distributing - New City, Murska Sobota, oncology institute, I think Isola as well. But these are the invitations that are still under way, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, at a certain point in time, following the procedures that enable us to do so, we let them down because I got here and was taught that the invitation to tender was too narrow at that time, that the invitation to tender allowed for too little competition on our market. The current tenders and the partial invitations were, the current invitation to tender for these operating tables together with the package, opens such indicators for these operating tables so that it can potentially run 20 or more producers and I am sure that we will be able to reduce the price substantially. Ask me when this call will be made. The eye clinic - several times we explained why the eye clinic was used on our side, not as the only one, but as one of the arguments for the price of operating tables, which consist of the so-called "operation table affair". The Ministry's report cited several arguments that such tables would achieve a significantly lower price elsewhere. One argument, of course, was appropriate, because it was in possession of the clinical centre and its services, was that also a clinical centre once in the past experienced the offer of these same operating tables a year ago, which were significantly cheaper. It is true that later it turned out that these operating tables were not then supplied, which was a re-infringement of the procedure and, of course, came to the point of buying five times cheaper tables, because she herself is an expert at oatmeal, that she does not need such expensive tables and that instead of a table where the patient is lying, she bought a better operating microscope, which actually helps to achieve a better intervention. However, it was a violation of the procedure, let us say, in a round that was unknown to us, but this certainly does not erase the fact that we had, as one of the arguments, the offer of this same supplier for substantially cheaper tables. Let me jump on some other stuff. Of course, I apologize to you for gleaning after your answers or comments, as I have written them down. The financial situation has deteriorated tremendously, you say. This is what we say in the White Paper and the deficit is clearly within the mandate of this minister. I don't know if I need to comment on this, ladies and gentlemen, but I do. The deficit began at a time when these major incursions into the health system, which we described in detail - increased salaries of healthcare workers, value added tax and, of course, medical inflation and, of course, a sudden rise in the older population, over 65 years, with virtually unchanged funding. The Health Insurance Office has been overcoming this crisis for some time with its own reserves created in previous years. That is why he was able to cover this ongoing loss, and only then did it gradually appear and our projections show that it will continue, and this is also one of the reasons why we need reform. There was much to be said and I would not like to comment on this dilemma in a public-private manner. I think that some Members have literally explained, instead of one, what I didn't say at the outset, and actually it wasn't intended to tell us when we were interpreting why we think that the complementary insurance with the single premiums is unfair and that it has to be eliminated. Not to say, there are two ways we can do this. Our goal is that the rights in this package depend on the individual's income, on his ability to pay. It is logical that the cleaner option is the one we have foreseen in the first concept of the White Paper, namely that these payments are abolished and there is an increase in the rate of contribution. The second solution that we now propose has the same objective, only the way there is different. This depends on income on the premium of voluntary insurance. Let me say again that international experts have said that this path is also possible. Let me mention that France, which is in fact the only country with supplementary insurance of this magnitude, is 14% of the total health care weight - those who are nostalgic, let me warn you that it is a supplementary insurance and not an additional concept. In addition, France has only such a mass. And in France, they found solutions that they also have income-added premiums, not regulated by the state, but regulated as far as possible by trade unions and employers in individual large industrial complexes. Let me mention some specific comments on some of the other points of interpretation. Mr Drobnic gave some interpretations of the concepts of investment and current maintenance and change of destination. He relied on a housing law, which in this case is irrelevant. Instead of using the building law. Moreover, in this case, it is by no means a change of purpose, but rather a change of use. Those rooms were once offices, and then they became -- by the way, even the offices of the Ministry of Health of the day. That's what it was. You know, there wasn't even a wall between those rooms and the current ones, but there was a closet. And then they became dentists, and now they're gonna be offices again. There's no way we could talk about a change of purpose. Besides, I'm asking you, is it true that once they're back there, they're going to increase the impact of the facility on the surrounding area? They used to be medicine, mercury, customer traffic, and now they're gonna be offices. Is that a deterioration of the environment? Appreciation of the skyscraper. I checked with my associates. Those who say they're on duty, but they're not on duty - the one who said that - for overtime. In our ministry, we work late at night, not just at interpretations, without people getting overtime. But we may be able to use a little more enlightenment today, and we may have also spent the last few days. In short, we do not know the price of 161 million in Skytičnik, and of course we will be happy to look at it, but we know the price of 207 million, which was reduced to 191 during the negotiations. Ambassador Tsukati says the beginning of construction is illegal. That's not true. I'm talking about a pediatric clinic. It would be illegal to include it without an investment programme in the development programmes of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. However, this investment project is included in the state budget under a special law on the provision of funds for a paediatric clinic, but since 3 October we have developed an investment programme for a paediatric clinic. Mr Podobnik would have replied to his question on the decision-making of the Council or the Director that, under the statute of the Clinical Centre, the Director-General did not have any restrictions on the conclusion of legal transactions and therefore did not decide on the Treaty of Trno's Council of the Clinical Centre. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think, of course, it has been very consistent to discuss that there are few nurses with us and we agree with that. I also think that when she mentioned the number 12,000 undernourished nurses, she did not claim that we needed 12,000 nurses, at least not fast. Let me point out that this is about 40, 50 new billions per year for their salaries and that this is almost the sum of the medicines used by Slovenian patients. This means that the aim of increasing healthcare workers, both doctors and nurses, technicians and others, is, of course, a gradual objective. And that this goal is always present and that it is always balanced, how much we can give for wages and how much money we need for health care to give rights, for material costs, in short, what patients understand is theirs. We have already increased this amount of wage funds from 54% to 61%, and we know that this share of wages will increase, inevitably because it is so worldwide where the share is already more than 70%. This means that we are going this way, but we do not know in any way how to imagine that at the current level of funding we could do this in a sunny way. That is why we have foreseen 1,000 new nurses by 2010, we have launched a programme, we have received funding for the new 200 nurses, as I reported, already in 2004, and we are firmly committed to ensuring this number. I think that we have also explained in the text of the White Paper very clearly and we have only been shown a graph, really precisely, only a graph that combined medical techniques and nurses, even though 15 years ago a medical technician, such as the grandmother in whom you were born, was considered a nurse; this is no longer the case, and we all have to accept it. It's just, these people are in health care, these people are 13,000. We have to count them in some way. We can't think of them as if they're gone. And we need to come up with a concept of how to meaningfully reduce numbers, because we cannot have both much, how to meaningfully reduce the number of health technicians in the future by natural outflow and how to increase the number of graduates. But we are already in discussions with a professional, in this case with a healthcare professional, in what way to enable the retraining or training of health technicians in a larger number than ever before. Actually, this retraining is already under way, but we'd like to speed it up. In short, for a certain part, perhaps a few thousand medical technicians in the coming years will receive an additional education at work for their graduates. I think that's some of it. I will closely follow the debate, as well as the comments made by my colleagues, so that I can add new explanations in the next advertisement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u35	Mr. Secretary, thank you. I invite the Ambassador of New Slovenia, Mr Andre Bajuk, to the floor. Dr. Bayuk, please. [[Back-up advertising.]] He didn't name you. I'm sorry. No, no, no. We really need to be careful here, this is a misrepresentation that Mr. Minister used to quote your name, not to argue with him. Please don't take advantage of these opportunities that Mr. Minister has. Here you go. Correcting the wrong statement, that's a replica, Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. So, he mentioned me, and there are two things I'd like to explain which is not valid. He's talking about a skyscraper at 207 million, which is not true. In his text, he mentions 191 million, in a valuation report written on 27 pages, Mr Minister, and is signed by Mr Marko Perme, he writes 162 million 200 thousand tolars, exactly like that. And that's what you need to refer to. You give false information, you make up valuations. Even what you have just said is not in line with what you wrote on page 2 in your explanation or response to interpolation. And one more thing, the building law - this is what we referred to and see Article 35 and Article 36 - what needs to be done if a change of destination is made. The project documentation includes an idea design, an idea project, a project for obtaining a building permit, a project for the tender and a project for implementation. That's how it is. I didn't mention any housing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you very much. That was a replica. Replica, Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u38	Mr. Secretary said that I declared the beginning of the construction illegal. I'm looking at a new pediatric clinic. I didn't say that. I never meant that. It's not the beginning of the construction yet. However, I mentioned how it was carried out or how it formulated an invitation to tender for the execution of construction and craft works and project documentation. And it was said that in this invitation to tender you are asking the tenderers to provide a budget for all these works and at the same time to assess the value or costs of the project documentation which is not yet, of course, yet. And I told them how to make the budget if the project wasn't there. And that is usually the case, and in these cases, where the projects are written or offered on the skin of a particular major contractor, who will then do the project himself and raise the cost of production himself. That's what I said. And at the same time, when you mention the beginning of the construction, it would certainly be funny to talk, it would be funny to say that the beginning of the construction will be sooner than all the projects, the building permit and the arranged calls will be made and until the works are delivered.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much. And now Dr. Bayuk has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would just like to point out that the subject of our debate today is interpellation, interpellation to Minister Kebra, not interpretation of the health system of the Republic of Slovenia. It's interesting what we're listening to, but it's actually illegal actions in the evaluation of the applicants, and everyone's talking, talking and talking about how well the system is developing, or how it's not developing, is actually superfluous. The debate here is of a different character, but all I have to do is answer it. In particular, I was also challenged by the presentation by colleague Kavčič, who spoke so beautifully on behalf of the Liberal Democracy, he also used the same concepts as Mr Minister in his opening remarks. Obviously it is the inventions of the brain trust or the "think tank" of the Liberal Democracy that, by the way, those people who disagree with you, as far as the latest proposals are concerned, as well as the previous versions of how the health system, as far as fundraising, should be financed in Slovenia, that this is a reaganomikl phenomenon in Slovenia. You know, before I say something like that, you need to think a little bit more about it. It's too bad, or you can buy one dictionary because it's not really what you think it is. In particular, because I do not know anyone who today or in the last six months would actually attack the essential features of financing the health system in Slovenia. Did anyone on the part of the opposition take the view that we must privatize everything and abolish compulsory insurance? Has anyone ever said anything like that? I just don't know what he's talking about right now with the hots here to defend the solidarity of the Slovenian system when no one actually attacked him. The fact is that we have only a specific system, which has the same characteristics as the essential characteristics throughout Europe, and some important differences. Almost four-fifths of everything, more than four-fifths of everything financed through compulsory health insurance, then we have this extra insurance and also the costs to be paid, I would say, directly from the pocket. And in this sense, if we subtract both of these things, there is a very high level of these costs in Slovenia, which are covered either by voluntary insurance or direct payment. And if we're looking for a place to find something like this, France is the most similar. France and Slovenia have similar figures as far as this is concerned. And, of course, for the first time, I was paying attention to this because I just read these things in the White Paper. You won't mind if I'm a little skeptical about the data coming from the government and I went to check these things out and it's interesting that who cares and really wants to get deeper, as of 11 March, there's some extensive analysis on the OECD website of the financing of the additional system in France, which doesn't sound like what Mr Minister now describes. The really important question is, and what bothers us in the opposition, especially in Novi Slovenija, is that you are referring on behalf of some solidarity, when you are consciously rejecting other options, which are also the characteristics of this system of example, the French system. Mr. Minister, you know very well because you wrote this in the White Paper and this is on page 55 that the financing of the French system has two characteristics that you deliberately do not want to use, and that is that workers and employers pay; you do not want to talk about it. And the other very important thing is that the whole system has been financed since 1990 by an additional tax, which has a very broad base and is not just - or a base in Slovenian - but it is not only dependent on the income of wages. Mr Minister, look again and you will see that France has consciously decided to finance the health system in part, not only on the basis of the income of the work, but also on the basis of other incomes that the capital owners have. And here we are again at the same point. And this is the point of what this great coalition is doing, not only in the area of tax reform, but also how it proposes financing for health reform. And on behalf of solidarity, it is hidden under the carpet and from the Slovenian public that the example you refer to actually works in a different way. But you don't want to do that. Why not? Yes, either explain to yourself or explain to the Slovenes why you do not consciously choose to tax, at least in part, the income coming from capital and property. And that's the French system. You're talking about the essential injustices of our supplementary insurance system. I don't know if that's how I would label it, so flat and fast, because it's actually an expression of intergenerational solidarity, which is still very important. We must stress that if we actually have this on the basis of risk or age, young people today should pay perhaps 2,000 tolars, older ones, but those who are closer to greater health problems than I am, for example, I, who am 60 years old, should pay after some calculations of 18,000. But we Slovenians have only decided that we will have a system where intergenerational solidarity will be introduced. What's the problem now? The problem is in your proposal, Mr. Secretary. I really don't know how you imagine through some law you're going to introduce a system that works in France based on deep roots in their history, "Only traditionalisme [[?]] de la France". [[...]] This is not a matter that has been legalized before yesterday, so do old personalities and also old unions for over a hundred years, which actually operate on the basis of a different notion of solidarity than you want to introduce. What you are proposing now that you have renounced what you wanted to do and you are describing in the White Paper - you have renounced this, haven't you, at least so the Prime Minister has announced and then, as the President of the Liberal Democracy has said that he is also supported by the world of Liberal Democracy, it is said, you have all the support - you have decided that what you wrote in the White Paper will be left behind, that you will get out in a different way and that you will be evaluating this voluntary insurance that we have, in a different way - that is to say, people will pay on the basis of your incomes, but not as now, according to the system that we now control. Well, how do you imagine that this will work in the market economy, I really don't understand. I don't understand because we don't have the tradition that the French have. The system, however, is essentially unsustainable, because it cannot hold, because those who are more powerful, if they calculate once that they are not worth it, will actually go outside the system. And then what do we have? One day we will have to find out, and Slovenia will find out, sooner or later, that if we want to finance health insurance, we need to include as many people as possible, the entire population, especially those who can do the most. This will not be done through such a system, which is some kind of awakening based on old working principles, but it must be done in a different way. That is why we have a fiscal policy, so we have a tax system, so we can tax assets and capital gains. But what if it hurts you so much, what if you've already decided not to tax these gentlemen because you serve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mr Franz Puksic, Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! My debate will be divided into four points: first, something about Trnov, Skytičnik and the pediatric clinic. All of these three points have certain common characteristics; they are clearly harmful transactions in which the Minister has been fraudulent, which would suggest that he is not sufficiently trained in the management of business and therefore cannot be in the position of a minister or has deliberately allowed harmful transactions, which is indicative of corruption, which is why even interpretation is insufficient. The Minister did not make public calls, they would have done so in the smallest municipality in Slovenia, and he could not bear as much, understandably as he did not have any experience in doing so. The Minister has always been in the public service and, of course, he does not have much or even no experience with financial business, except for the substantial, too expensive advisors from far away Australia, who, of course, cannot know our situation, did not find the right financial and economic advisers or associates who would, of course, do these transactions much better than he did himself. It is not his fault that he does not know the matter, but it is a mistake that he has not been able to teach himself and that he has not handed the business over to those who can do so. For the state and taxpayers, it is expensive and too expensive, even dangerous, if the Minister learns economics and business in the position of minister. There are cheaper and less harmful methods of learning for this. The Minister of Health may be a doctor because he knows the health system, but of course he must have some financial, economic and management experience. If it does not have them, it must have the ability to manage, coordinate and organise to seek out relevant experts. There are enough more suitable people within the Liberal Democracy or Coalition, so there is no reason for the current minister to continue doing this work. From all three of these points and, of course, of course, of course, it follows that in his reply to these three points of interpolation, the Minister has not rejected any evidence and is therefore responsible for the financial damage to the State budget, the financial damage to the public health service and, of course, the violation of the 2002 government decision. I'm going to go into a lot more detail on his answers to point five, these are human resources issues. The public health service network must ensure that people are given equal access to health care as far as possible. Minister Keber always has a mouthful of big words about justice, accessibility and other general accepted principles, which are by no means just his principles, even more than the principles of the health system. However, speaking of the health system, they were written in all the key health-related documents long before Minister Kebro. Of course, from the minister's big words on accessibility, at least very few people have access. The Minister does nothing to ensure that people in rural and demographic areas have equal access to health care. Moreover, delaying the solution allows the situation to remain the same. The Minister admits that the network is lacking in at least two areas. The network is deficient in global terms and the network is unevenly distributed. The network is deficient because it lacks doctors and other personnel. This is also stated by the Minister in his reply. Even the Ministry only admits that there are quite a few general doctors missing. In doing so, it uses standards that are favourable to it and show a minor shortage. Normatives are not appropriate because they are based on an increase in the current staffing situation and show smaller or agreed deficits. The network is unevenly distributed on several levels. Even taking into account current, inadequate standards and criteria, there are too many derogations at the level of regions or district units of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. At the level of the exhibitions of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia or at the level of administrative units, derogations are even greater. At the level of municipalities, within the administrative units, the derogations are far greater because peripheral municipalities do not yet have an ambulance, and doctors work in municipalities where administrative units are established. Hence, these congregations have significantly better conditions and, in general, urban conditions. The Minister allows for the continuation of differences in the death of the population, which is unacceptable. The network standards are based only on age criteria. According to this criterion, they get more personnel and resources in areas that are more developed, that have better health status, and thus more old people who really need more doctors. The Minister agrees with this logic and continues to allow people in the less developed regions to be more ill to die younger and earlier. It agrees with the logic that it takes less time to do that. But don't do anything to make things better for people in this area. The Minister's staff logic was based on imports of doctors from other countries because training our doctors is too expensive. In doing so, he did not consider the fact that the imported doctors do not know the Slovenian language and cannot and do not know how to feel with our people. Our people are quite traditional because they find it hard to trust strangers. The public health service network is late through all reasonable deadlines because it is not in the right will to accept it. The Ministry does not want it because it would become clear that the network has so far been insufficient. The insurance companies don't want it either, because they should be funding more personnel. Why, though, should people who pay for insurance not advertise or demand the realization of what has been said by politics and insurance? Likewise, the great congregations do not want a network, for they should recognize a certain frame and give it away to the smaller ones. This would, of course, bring doctors closer to people, which is not in line with the policy of the Liberal Democracy. This is how only small congregations truly take over the network, which is clearly too small for its realization, and unfortunately not all of those Members who come from the countryside. As long as the situation is as it is, the periphery and endangered areas will suffer because people will continue to die younger and too quickly. In Slovenian Gorica, unfortunately, much earlier and significantly younger than in central Slovenia. This is also shown by all statistics. The Minister claims that the network is real because it takes into account both the funding and the existing situation. The network is not planned for the current situation because the current situation does not allow for equal accessibility of people to the medical service. The network is planned as a projection for a few years ahead, 10 or even for 20. The Network means planning a human resources policy for at least this period. Of course, the most pressing problems and the derogation must be tackled as a matter of priority. The Minister claims that the network takes into account the gravity of the population towards the individual operator. Residents always gravitate to the contractor. Where am I supposed to go? We need to plan the network in a second way, by gravity of the performers to the inhabitants, to the users, so in the opposite direction. Health care is not intended for itself, but health care and doctors are intended for patients, as is the case with those living in rich areas, as is the case with those living in Slovenian Gorica. According to the Minister's logic, we could only have one hospital and, of course, all citizens would be gravity against one hospital. The Minister argues that it would be unrealistic for the Ministry of Health to set new criteria for the network. The Minister thus agrees with the current network, but he has no interest in establishing a new network and therefore all the promises of the network are only a letter on paper. People in threatened areas will therefore continue to die younger and sooner than people in places where the current network is much better covered. The Minister claims that a different network would lead to dissatisfaction in patients. Why would dissatisfied patients approach them in health care? They are unhappy now that the network is uneven. The Minister claims that a large number of health services are causing pressure after the network has increased. The network should be evenly distributed. It doesn't have to be increased, it just needs to be perfected where it's deficient. The pressure to increase the network is, however, the following factors: certainly the number of ageing populations, the better opportunities offered by the progress of medical science, and of course the efforts to achieve the best health status of citizens - but for all, not only for the rich. Restricting services necessarily leads to an extension of waiting periods, less than the service, less costs for the health system. Such logic is dangerous and murderous for our citizens. The Minister says we have an active policy of hiring doctors and nurses. Such a policy is necessary, not a cause for complacency. The problem is that this policy is not intense enough. According to the Minister himself, we have a very low number of doctors per unit of population, even compared to accession countries to the European Union. His reply on page 23 states: "In the last 25 years, the number of doctors working in health care has soared." However, it goes on to say: "This is how the growth rate over the last three years is 1.1% per year, which is compared to most developed countries, with 1.5 to 2.5% growth, very modest, so it is not surprising that Slovenia has a very low number of doctors per population compared to the countries of the European Union as well as accession countries." Well, I'd like to finish with the last part of the health reform. Here the Minister stated that under the contract with Australian contractors it amounted to EUR 5,400 per week. This means a million 200 tolars a week or five million a month. And since it is 74 weeks, the minister paid about 370 million Slovenian tolars for this work. The 370 million Slovenian tolars are about as much as the appropriate consumption for one of the Slovene municipalities with 5,000 inhabitants - with 5,000 inhabitants! So if it's called social-liberal, then that's it. In his work today, the minister stated that he had worked under Article 115 of the Law on Public Procurement concerning investment in Skytičnik. He forgot to look at the law on the implementation of the budget, which in Article 20 allows him up to 20 million for the award of construction contracts. And today he said that for such investments there was no need to issue a building permit. I don't know how you can get if you're changing the destination of the premises, even the operating permit, if you don't have a building permit for this. But if you don't have project documentation, then, of course, you can't get a construction file. So they can't afford such slips, and they can't afford even the smallest Slovenian congregation, which, of course, doesn't have as much and as much paid personnel around them as the minister does. Therefore, there are, of course, more than too many reasons for violating the laws and the Minister is not fit to continue his work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. Now I give my word to my colleague Jerzi Mrzel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, Minister, people of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, dear people! I'm not going to talk about interpolation points, because somehow I don't think that's necessary. You've talked a lot, you'll talk a lot more. I don't think that's even the point. But it's something completely different. I object to the interpretation, and I'll tell you why. The shock we're experiencing and this turbulence is actually due to the change in the system we're in. I wonder at this time what is the time of these shocks, referendums and interpretations, what would happen if you gave me a referendum and asked people if they were for this system, if they were for any other system that it was. We had very good health care in the previous system. We all know that. And changes are necessary and I do not think every man is capable of doing them either, and I think Minister Keber is a very capable man and is the right person for these changes or for these reforms. In short, let us ask ourselves and ask people what kind of system we want to live in. We need to know, and I'm aware of this because I've been in some other profession before, that there's a recording here and that we actually want to or actually want to, more than I do, everyone else to show and make a campaign for the election. That's the theme of today. That we're being filmed and people are watching us. I went to the client to protect some of the values that were in the past. In the past, the health system that favored humans has been exposed. Hospitals, health homes, have been built. In particular, health care and care for women and children and also for the poor who sometimes did not have the care they now have. There are, of course, problems that need to be solved, but not by interpolation and not by such referendums as we are waiting for, because that seems to me to be the kind of disaster of the spirit that we live in. Of course, I have my own subjects, which I am very interested in, and I have also asked about them. I'm interested in child health issues, I'm interested in women's protection, and I'm interested in protecting the poorest layers. I've been assured, I've been particularly interested in and talked, I've been assured, and I believe that the tradition that we had will continue in these matters. In short, just as women and children and even poorer layers began to take care of after World War II, so it will be taken care of and hopefully even better, because we have opportunities. And instead of spending time on such difficult topics that we do, because we are going to Europe, we are wasting time on these unfortunate topics, when we are actually doing something that I would say -- yesterday I was reading an interview with one of our esteemed Members of Parliament, and he made me think that we are acting like Clara in that Slovenian proverb, we act like someone after the day of sewing, someone after the night of steam, like the world of Klara. It's as harmful as you know. Maybe we need to turn to something else, we're losing our reputation, our parliament is losing its reputation because of all these things, and it's wasting its time. It reminds me, because I come from another profession, to poetry, because we had here before also an honourable Member who mentioned Maistre and let me mention, Master was also a poet of course and let me also mention what version we come up with. Our great poet, who said, "All thoughts spring from the love of one, and because at night in sleep they are stopped, they wake up when the night dawns again, you are the life of my highway." I think that the life of the highway, of all those who are so terribly fighting for interpretation now, is actually just to come to the government and take over the city, to be president and actually have a position because you are now in the opposition. I don't think that's good. And I think there's something else I'd like to say. Now that it was the feast of Kosovela, if you find it so unpleasant red, let us knit together the gold garments of gold thread and sit in the golden boat of Kosovel. Read Kosovel, and you will see where the thought of Slovenia comes from, and the freedom of the vocabulary in which we live and the free country, as we now live and where it leads us, we may also have a better conclusion to this meeting today. In short, I object to the interpretation because it's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you, colleague of Jerca Frostel. My friend Franci Rokavec has a word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Of course, Mr Minister is not in the Chamber this time, but I am sure he will probably return to the debate. I'd like to go on with what the predecessor started. Indeed, I do not think that it is enough to talk about solidarity, and solidarity must also be exercised and implemented in society. The Minister, as has already been said today, is very effectively vehement and actively involved in the announcement of health care reform in the Republic of Slovenia. However, as has already been said, given the many words and, however, I would say, also the greatness, the size of the White Paper itself, which was presented, was missing the fundamental element of the White Paper, is the financial basis and the realisation of the provision of adequate financial resources. I fully agree that and that every citizen's fundamental right of access must be the right of access in order to ensure the necessary health care. However, as Mr. Minister has done with the production of the White Paper, I am concerned. In fact, the health system in us or anywhere in the world is a very sensitive system and is not being saved and changed overnight, it is necessary to upgrade it, but to upgrade it in a way where solutions are needed and they also have a real possibility of implementation. I am convinced that we must be grateful to the Minister of Finance that he has actually resisted words in this game, resisted the Minister of Health and made it clear to him that without the financial elements to ensure the necessary health reform, there will be no way. The fact is that, to be discovered, the government only adopted a draft White Paper on 3 July 2003, and the draft White Paper forwarded it to the public debate by 15 October. The White Paper is not even a document that has been definitively adopted at government level. Today, the Minister has also reiterated here in Parliament that he will start carrying out certain activities with April 1st, including a new model for hospitals, after of course its difficulties in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the approach is questionable, a way of approach. The lack is that basic element in health, which is actually subsidiarity and partnership. And I now ask the Minister publicly why some eminent health professionals, with their concerns about the White Paper, should not and should not be involved and should not speak publicly, but are within the framework of a system governed by the health department. I believe that this is unfair, undemocratic and very harmful for health reform, for the final product that should actually be created by consensus, with the cooperation of all. The second question that I would touch on is the question that has already been raised today, but the Minister did not answer that question in the first answers. I expect that in the course of the debate, because this is an option that Mr Minister has, the question will be answered. However, it is a matter of carrying out disinfection of infectious waste. In fact, it was explicitly stated here that the annex is the number 3 of the general contract with Mollier, d.o.o. and AYLO, d.o.o., which actually expired on 30.11.2001, was not signed until autumn 2002. And that this annex does not contain the date that TU was misused by the Minister to abuse him - that in fact the contractor was still putting forward higher claims at that time which the State had to pay. I expect that Mr Minister will definitely respond to this accusation, which is very important, even in the final decision on whether or not the Minister has actually acted against the laws of this country, even intentionally against the laws of this country. The second is the issue of the Trnovo hospital and the exchange of business premises on this issue in Stefanova. In fact, the fact is that the university clinical centre needed to arrange certain premises in the clinical centre, an intensive department of the internal clinic and could also be listed, but Trnovo hospital was sold at a liquidation price and the premises in Nestičnik were purchased at a market price. Of course, the excuses for unregulated spatial and regulatory conditions, which were amended just before these transactions were concluded, were, of course, changed to a higher market value. These ways of manipulating the city of Ljubljana have a whole range. But here we also touch on some very suspicious links that have recently occurred on the relationship between the city of Ljubljana and the state institutions. On this basis, too, the question to the Minister, who has already said in his reply to the Head of Parliament that under the statute of the UKC, the Director does not need the consent of the UKC Council to purchase real estate. Article 29 of the decision on the transformation of the public institution The Clinical Centre says that the Clinical Centre performs in legal traffic on its own behalf and on its own account. In carrying out its activities, it shall be responsible for all the means by which it operates. The establishment of the Clinical Centre shall be responsible for the management and operation of the property. And here are the questions I would like to answer from the Minister: Which UKC body has considered buying premises in Nestičnik? For what activity will the UKC use two floors in Nestičnik? Who pays the tax and the land contribution of the said premises? Who prepared and signed the contract? Was the sale of Trnov carried out under the law of public procurement? And is it correct for the minister to say that by selling at a liquidation price, you still deserve to buy at a market price? In fact, he wanted an interpretation of this statement, because he is probably even a fugitive of what we were able to hear today. This is just a few questions which I would like to hear from the Minister before the conclusion of the debate. I will conclude that my fellow Members will also be able to spend some time on their discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Now he has the word of a colleague of Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The health of citizens is one of the fundamental values of any modern society. Issues relating to the health of the individual and to the healthcare system are at the top of the programmes of both political parties in the world and many civil society organisations and associations. Therefore, in all developed countries, they pay very close attention to health and healthcare problems, whether they are issues of fairness and solidarity, the fundamental values of most health systems in the world, or problems of accessibility, quality and efficiency as fundamental principles of the organisation of health systems. The health reform of Minister Kebra answers most of these questions, thus putting Slovenia at the side of all modern developed countries. Of course, this raises a question to me whether such conduct by the minister is the reason for the intervention against the minister, Dr. Kebra. In the mandate of Minister Kebra, the money for the health of citizens has increased. The waiting period has decreased, particularly in those programmes where the postponement of an operation or an investigation could lead to a significant or even fatal deterioration in the patient’s medical condition. To date, the increase in the number of operations combined with the funds provided for in 2004 was in the open heart, the operation of the grey retina, orthopaedic surgery and cardiovascular diseases aimed at over 3.7 billion tolars, which means 500 additional open-heart surgery, 570 additional orthopaedic surgery, 6,800 additional operations of the grey eclipse and 700 additional heart attacks. More than 1,000 open-heart operations were performed in 2003, an increase of 20% compared to 2000. The number of grey marble surgery increased by more than 50 and the number of orthopaedic surgery by 30%. Today, two and a half times more heart patients are treated, three times more patients with gray darkness and twice as many orthopaedic patients than six years ago. I wonder if these results are a reason to interpret against Minister Kebra. In the mandate of the Minister of Health, Prof. Kebra has significantly increased the budget allocated to health, from 7.1 billion dollars in 2000 to 4.1 billion in 2003 and to 17.1 billion in 2004. For more than 300%, however, public health investment has increased by more than 300%. They grew from 2.7 billion in 2000 to 8.5 billion dollars in 2004, representing a 315 % increase. The establishment of the Health Investment Fund allows the budget money allocated to investments that are not spent in the current year to be transferred to the following year. There are 21 investments completed or just before completion. Let me list the most important: oncological institute Ljubljana, ocular clinic, technical services of the clinical centre, psychiatric clinic Studenec and treatment centre, general hospital Celje: orthopaedic department and neurological department and clinics, general hospital Šempeter: department of disabled youth Stara Gora, general hospital Maribor: psychiatric ward and ocular and ORL ward, general hospital Murska Sobota: gynaecological-natal ward, general hospital Novo mesto: gynaecological-natal ward, rehabilitation of psychiatric hospital Begunje, psychiatric hospital Vojnik and could also be listed. This year, the first phase of the Cancer Institute will be completed. The construction of a new paediatric clinic began years ago because of poorly prepared projects and unregulated ownership relations at the location where it was supposed to stand and irregular relations with residents in the premises at the location of the new clinic. A revision of the new paediatric clinic project was carried out with the help of an international consultant, which represented savings of more than 3 billion tolars. I wonder whether the successful implementation of investments in public health establishments is the reason for the interpretation lodged against Minister Dr Kebra. In the mandate of Minister Prof. Kebra, the contribution rate for compulsory health insurance was increased and, on a proposal from the Ministry, increased excise duty on alcoholic beverages which the government has dedicated to investments in health care. The Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption has undoubtedly contributed to the greater sensitivity of Slovenian society to the health, economic and social burdens that excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages entails. In the field of tobacco policy, we took up the rule of law among the candidates for membership in the European Union, which introduces the maximum content of harmful substances in cigarettes and introduces a warning on cigarette boxes, which has been shown to be an effective instrument in the policy of reducing the damage caused by tobacco products. Is this why the intervention against Minister Kebra was filed? In 2001, the Ministry prepared a new regulation on drug evaluation. This Regulation created savings of 3 billion tolars at annual level. Last year, a model of reference prices for medicinal products was established, which has already led to a decrease in the prices of certain medicinal products. The annual savings are estimated at an additional 1.5 billion tolars. As an observer in the European Parliament, I would like to stress the very active role and efforts of Minister Kebra in the field of the revision of pharmaceutical legislation in the European Union in terms of the health reform objectives, which discuss the management of healthcare costs, with the cost of medicines being a large share of the health treasury. The proposed solutions were supported by a signed petition issued by the European Parliament Health Committee, expressing more than 100 observers from candidate countries and all seven observers in the European Union from Slovenia. Is that also the reason you filed an intervention against Professor Kebra's minister? During the time of Minister Kebra, the care of a healthy citizen has increased significantly, and it should be for children, family, pregnant women. More than 90% of our children have been pre-screened. Last year, doctors conducted 118 thousand pre-emptive examinations. The number of new lung cancer patients decreased by 10%. We have an effective way of detecting cancer at the uterine neck of ZORA, so I expect a quarter less mortality. Life expectancy of people in Slovenia is increasing. Is that why you're interpreting Dr. Kebra's minister? The method of classifying patients in acute hospital treatment in a group of comparable cases within the mandate of Minister Prof. Kebra makes it possible to pay for cases after the difficulty of treatment according to patient diagnosis and procedure. With a collected and adapted model, Slovenia follows a number of countries in Europe and around the world that have already won a model of effective distribution of funds according to principle, money follows the patient. The model of a group of comparable cases will, in my opinion, increase the efficiency of the healthcare system, improve transparency and fairness in the allocation of funds and payment of services. This will ease the expected short-term increase in the volume of services. However, the model of a group of comparable cases will force hospitals to make organisational changes, to increase daily and outpatient treatment, which will have positive financial effects in the long term. The estimated savings of one to two per cent of the funds for acute treatment divided by a model of common comparable cases are estimated to amount to 2.7 to 5.4 billion tolar in the next three years, from 2005 to 2007. These funds will be spent on operators to reduce waiting periods, introduce new technologies and medicines and treatment procedures. All of this will make access to health care more equal for all citizens, and health care itself will be better and better for the citizen. The development of a comprehensive quality system to treat patients according to clinical guidelines and pathways will increase the quality of treatment and improve treatment outcomes. This year, the general quality of healthcare standards will start with internal assessment or self-assessment, and an external evaluation process will begin. The quality elements introduced will indirectly influence better communication between doctors, healthcare professionals and hospital and health care professionals. The users and their relatives will be provided with information on the expected treatment and then a comparison with standard medical treatment. Are these measures also a reason for the intervention lodged against Minister Kebra? In 2002 the Ministry of Health joined in actively increasing the number of doctors and nurses. The decision is based on an analysis of the state of professional demography of doctors, the European Union Working Time Directive and the expected increase in the scope of healthcare programmes in the face of increasing demands on the population, demographic change and the development of new procedures and technologies. In part, positive results are already visible as we record an increase in the number of graduate nurses and medical technicians. In the meantime, it should be said that the results will only be seen in physicians in a few years due to the longevity of the medical study. We consider the establishment of a medical university in Maribor, which will also bring medical studies closer to young people who would not otherwise choose to study this type of study. At the same time, the establishment of a medical faculty in Maribor will mean raising the quality and accessibility of health services, not only in northeastern Slovenia, but in Slovenia as a whole. Despite the opposition's negative arguments, although you supported this project at the time, the establishment of another medical faculty in Slovenia occurred at the time when Professor Keber was Minister of Health. Is that also why you filed an intervention against Minister Kebra? If Minister Keber is guilty of something [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u49	Controversy in the bench, please! [[...]] Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u50	If Minister Keber is guilty of something, then he's guilty. [[in the narrators, of course.]] , that in his mandate in the field of health there have been very intense events, which have also been more intensely open to unpleasant topics: medical errors themes, the issues of an ageing funding system have been raised, not to mention particularly health reform, which comprehensively analyses the health sector in Slovenia and proposes certain measures with solutions. With its social orientation and fairness, the proposed health reform has made a fundamental contribution to a stable system of thinking and behaviour. Therefore, strong attention was given to both the professional and the general Slovenian public. In terms of constructive proposals, the White Paper will certainly be improved in a number of other works. Of course, I cannot avoid feeling that the reform proposal has strongly affected the system of established practices and existing financial flows and privileges. I believe that is the answer to my question. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that these are the reasons why you have tabled the interpretation, and, of course, that is why I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Comrade Germich. Now I give my word to my colleague Dr. Bernick. Is that right? Comrade Dr. Bernick, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u52	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! I was just running to get to this point because I would like to congratulate the Minister for his credulity in presentation, but in the end, one feels cheated if the content is not what one would expect. You know, your health reform reminds me of what Mrs. Hilary Clinton did many years ago, who was in charge of preparing a new system, and they were squeezing for two years, and then it all collapsed, and it had to start all over again. I'm afraid that will be the case with your reform. Your reform is something like Sigma for the Ljubljana Bank. And what's interesting is that there's no government at the Ljubljana Bank, no one's ever thought of this thing, and we've got this broken down right now, and you're still starting or continuing. Do you know why I feel that way? I'll tell you. You talk in your book, which is extremely well prepared in this sense to read somewhere as a fairy tale, but in there you talk about people. There is nothing in the book that would prove that you really feel with our people, with Slovenian citizens. Look, a man should be an element of all this stuff, and that doesn't appear in your book. It seems like a very nice word, but in fact you don't do to a person what is extremely important to a patient, it's a human element of kindness, kindness and so on. Doctors, then nurses, and other medical professionals are absolutely unaware of the need for human kindness and understanding. We all know from our own experience what's wrong here. Many of your doctors do not respond to patients, avoid them, go to rooms, get answers that patients find difficult to get out of a doctor. The sisters are overloaded, so they're tired, they're tiny, they're short-worded, and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u53	Don't polyminate in the bench, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u54	The working environment is often completely inappropriate and lacking. When the patient comes, they don't give -- at least most of them, not as far as I know -- the list of rights the patient has while he's in the hospital. If you got that, a lot of patients would feel better, and you were hoping to say something when you're not. After the patients leave, I don't think there's any general practice in getting a questionnaire to say what was good, wrong and so on. There's no such thing! That's what they say. The patient doesn't matter again. Look, on page 2 we have a lot of civil society, we have a lot of pensioners who don't know what to do and where to go. While in the world there is civil society and voluntary assistance in hospitals one of the essential things to help patients voluntarily and free of charge, to help nurses bring newspapers and so on, sometimes there was also a telephone - I experienced it so that I could not phone my wife for half a day because I was in the hospital that I was there. Then I'd say that. Your parade horse may have been a really parade horse, but now it's going to have to be rehabilitated, but not in the way you imagine. And, finally: Where does your book describe the retention of doctors to patients? Who teaches them where they get medical ethics? All this is missing, and it seems to me that the human element is much more important than some of the things you describe in your book. Look, the next thing I know you're not comfortable with is a private medical practice. More and more doctors are leaving the public services to private services, but this is not arranged and I think it should be arranged and should be one of the pillars of your medical reform. That's what I'm going to say. Why can't private doctors arrange for patients not to wait, while in hospitals it's not settled, and we should really have a professional manager to handle these things for doctors. The final thing, Slovenian doctors around the world - is full of them. We can get people from the south who don't even know Slovenian and so on, but no one knows how to bring Slovenian doctors from the world, let them work here because they have already been trained in many good countries. And if we don't, then we've missed another way to improve our health care. Your book says "people's work" somewhere. I would like this book to express it, but I regret to say that it does not. Perhaps with your team, which has brought this book together at such high cost, you will stop the human element with your reform, which I do not think is reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bernick. Comrade Jerovšek, now you have the floor. Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers. Mr Minister has proven today again that he is likely to have been elected Minister, in particular because of his ability to speak in a demagogic manner, rather than to exploit his health experience. For in such a light he showed everything as if in the health system everything was in order. You've made a strong statement before: I think I'm doing the right thing. I can believe you, I can believe that you are not subjectively responsible for mistakes, affairs and abuses in the health system, but I think that, Mr Minister, you are a little more than half of your ministry, demented yourself when you stated in November 2002 that "the situation in Slovenian hospitals is chaotic", that is your statement. How could it be possible, on the basis of the optimum operation of the station, that conditions in hospitals would be chaotic within two and a half years, and if they were not chaotic at the start of the operation of the station? See, it has already been proven today that it was not right to sell the Trnovo clinic that it was wrong not to operate in accordance with good management. I consulted myself and convinced myself from the real estate expert, and he gave me a bunch of vague answers, a bunch of things when the minister is with himself in the coalition - and look, it is true. You claim that the client for the purchase of a clinic was only one, but this is true, because there was no invitation to tender for the collection of tenders, with more offers we could reach a higher price. It is also true that the municipality of Ljubljana had a preliminary right, but this can be true, but it is true that it should buy the clinic at as low a price as determined by the valuer, who was ordered and paid by the municipality of Ljubljana. The city council had the money for the entire purchase, so it is said that it had no means to exercise its preliminary right. This is an argument by which the Ministry of Health could carry out a public invitation to tender and seek out a more favourable buyer, etc. The Minister argues that the assets from the sale of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia managed by a certain public institution cannot be included in the investment projects of this institution - this can be true, but the government itself has decided to return the funds from the sale of the Trnovo clinic this time to the clinical centre, so the Minister has violated the government's decision. Two questions are raised: With what arguments did the government convince this financial transaction that the premises for the Ministry's administration are more important than the hospital for heart and blood diseases, the diseases that most Slovenians are dying for just these few years before moving into the new premises in Bežigrad? And with what job did he satisfy the clinical center to remain silent about the estranged funds? How will the clinical centre provide adequate accommodation for the displaced clinic from Trnovo? "The stated purpose is to treat patients," responds the minister himself when he confirms the fear that the clinical centre has really done the necessary adaptations for the clinic for vascular diseases and with its own resources and so on and so on. It is not surprising that in this business the municipality of Ljubljana - indeed this is in Ljubljana - during the period when the city municipality acted very uneconomically and here a whole bunch of people from LDS took advantage of the authority within the city municipality. We know about the SIB affair, we know about selling an exclusive location, like Gorenje, and so on. And the question is, was this also the location of the Trnov hospital not in the heads or also in the plans for what future thorn gardens, as LDS now built by former ministers and some of the February apartments with golden taps and so on? That's how it is. Here it can be argued that all conduct was right, in all these health-related affairs, when huge money was spent when there was no transparent spending of money, when the price did not go down when there was no "gliggling" - according to the household statement. Are there an affair between the operating table and the erythropoietin at different hospitals? Is all this truly a salvation and a right thing for the people? I don't think so. And the worst thing in my opinion is what happened in the epilogue of the cell affair when 3,000 patients were not examined for histology and many of them, which is now clear, died without adequate treatment. This is, in my opinion, the most serious moral, ethical matter for this area of health, and this was actually a serious violation of Hippocrates' imprisonment. Look, there was a violation of article 51 of the Constitution. And here, from these types, a colleague claimed on our side that we do not have a responsible attitude towards the less wealthy, that the responsible attitude towards the less wealthy is to this party and the opposition parties abroad, how can someone in this cell affair, where he was employing exclusively the LDS and not looking at the small man, be privileged to those who had political ties or a lot of money, but who, by other means, have come to an investigation, are someone making that clear? Look, very serious things are happening in health care and they've been happening in health care. During this same term, health reform was offered. Much has been said about unacceptable solutions. Although the Minister himself claimed that everyone has the right, I agree, to health care, which is the constitutional right to equality, to justice, to solidarity. However, these affairs in this mandate are in grave violation of these rights, agilitarism, which should be at least at some level. Why were these three golden rules not respected in this mandate? Does it seem to you that, in the last few days, when journalists had to do it again, it was for a project to develop the management of the health care system, such as a project credited by the international bank, called the EUR 3.7 million loan spent and EUR 547 000 of its own medical money: This is part of the business involved in this health reform? Here such enormous fees have been paid, and Mr Minister has just on television excused these Australian fees to be similar at home. They're really similar at home. Ipmit from Ljubljana is 912 000 euros, which is about two million marks, received these enormous funds. And that means, these fees, that the administrator got 38 thousand dollars a day paid for 750 days. That two system analysts got paid for 480 days and each is worth 71,000 tolars a day. But there are other companies, other people, in this area. And even in this context there is a government information centre, its director even in some contextual way. The minister assures them that they didn't get any fees. But they had huge fees on their partners, obviously, institutions. And I sincerely ask: Is not Mr Penk's resignation from the anti-corruption office's candidacy in connection with what came out last day? I think in these cases it's the suspicion of money laundering. In my opinion. And I wonder when these institutions will put any product on the table? Apparently they're unable to offer it to the press and not to the Ministry. No one. So we can check the state of why that money was spent. Why so enormous a day's pay? The daily fee of someone is greater than that of the textile industry or any other industry. I think that's pretty serious stuff. And, Mr Minister, I think that if you, when you lost a referendum in a plebiscite way to say that you would not say that the takeover was perfectly correct, because then you would deny all the Slovenians, almost a large majority of the Slovenians who felt otherwise - if they could then be able to do what was advised, what ministers in other countries do to recognize objective responsibility for such an election defeat and from objective responsibility to avoid in fact what the opposition is obliged to do today. To draw attention to irregularities that are of a material nature, where big money is involved. And I firmly believe that such a warning and moral posture with a derogation from objective responsibility would save a lot of money in Slovenian health care so that the successors - or in health care - would have a greater responsibility. But you were then, I'm very sorry, cynically opposed to objective responsibility in your statements. I hope that to this day you have changed your mind that in a democratic state, the Minister must also step down if he is not subjectively responsible, but there has been a lot of irregularities, corruption and such things in his department. And that reason still exists today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Let me just say this as an interlocutor to everyone, not only do you think that I am and there rightly complain that a statement has been made several times, which others consider to be unrealistic or insulting, but I would ask once again all of them to try to abstain in their statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! Interpellations against Dr. Dusan Kebra's Minister of Health will not be supported. In his reply, the Minister fully debarred the entries in the interpolation with a precise reasoning from point to point. It is not surprising, since the statements made by the candidates of the intellectuals of the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of the New Slovenia are unrealistic, misleading and without regard to the facts. In fact, Dr. Keber’s minister made it very easy to handle all the charges, both in writing and in his performance today. I was particularly convinced by today's minister's performance. Interpellators, of course, have completely different objectives. The valuable times of the National Assembly are abusing the pre-election tribunal, so I see the treatment of both interpretations, including tomorrow's against Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinca, as a cheap and cheap campaign. There are only 12 hours of debate announced today. We have been informed that the meeting of the National Assembly will be broadcast directly until 23.30 p.m. by even national television. Instead of speeding up the National Assembly on so-called European legislation, it literally plunges into a void, without effect and without tangible results. But you'd still eat that, even though it's very difficult. But this same group of interpellation candidates was also the trigger for Sunday's referendum, which will also have no effect, except that we will be more than they deserve. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u59	Subject matter [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u60	600 million, maybe even one billion tolars. [[...]] How much necessary medical equipment could hospitals buy for this money, this should be asked by interpolation and referendum proponents. In both cases it is a cheap pre-election propaganda of the Slovenian Coalition, which has been joined by the Slovenian People's Party following recent statements and conduct, but for taxpayers and the state budget very expensive instruments of democracy - an instrument of democracy that are literally abused. Interpellation and referendum will not solve any problems facing Slovenia today before joining the European Union. In the absence of arguments, for example, Ambassador France Tsukati indirectly accused Minister Kebra of even being responsible for the impersonal relationship of doctors with patients. Minister Dr. Dusan Keber is a good minister. He opened up and began to solve a number of problems that have accumulated in health care for many years. He also designed an ambitious health reform project. It also responds positively to our parliamentary questions and initiatives. When I pointed out the problem of hospital infections with my question, the ministry reacted very quickly. A national commission for the prevention and control of hospital infections has also been established. The problem of hospital infections is also due to him no longer to be placed under the carpet. Dr. Dusan Keber is a good minister of health, so I won't support the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you very much, colleague Bevk. My friend Brenčič is not in the hall. Comrade Barovich, I have your name unlocked. You want a word? I thought you changed the order. Okay, then you have two minutes, no more. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u62	I know, I know, I'll be shorter. Thank you. In fact, the best thing to do is to avoid the obvious, to speak empty words, and not to apologize in an election year. For the health care situation is known to people who go to the infirmary or who are, unfortunately, in the hospital, but at the same time know what the medical situation is, and doctors who sometimes tell a few things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. My friend Merlo has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Despite a lot of information that the interpellation against the minister will not be, I was quite sure that the proponents would not let it go, for a simple reason, because to say literally: you will not forget the brothers in the weapons. And it's our, today's inter-interpreted minister who deserves to have our opposition in the country today, and it's a good thing to say "in the notes - heart condition" which has improved from independence to today, thanks to the diagnosis then also to the diagnosis and obviously good therapy. As it all appears, the interpellations' proponents do not choose the means to attack our minister, who, together with some of our current opponents, has laid the foundations for our country in the time of independence. Given his role as a treating physician in the JBTZ affair, this interpretation is a great surprise to me and proof that I repeat that in the pre-election period you do not choose the means to achieve your goals and that you forget your friend in the accident. Dear fellow Members! If doctors were so easy and on average to deal with cases and problems faced by the profession, they would certainly have a much higher mortality rate in Slovenia. This thought came to me when I took a deep look at the arguments stated in the interpretation: I feel that the applicants have devoted much too little time to studying health issues in order to offer us some serious range of issues that we should think of as a position. If I answer for a start so easily and on average, then at first glance, I can find that some 17 claims are simply not true, at seven the applicants were clearly wrong, about six are unfounded, and four of them point to a complete ignorance of positive legislation, which may be in view of the situation that we have as Members, it can indeed be unforgivable. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to make some comments on the claims that show a lack of knowledge of Slovenian legislation. It is clear that we do not have all the legal texts in our heads, but one would somehow assume that if someone were to commit such serious work as the employment of the State Interpellationary Chamber, such a person would at least look at the relevant legal provisions, such as the case of the Public Finance Act. If we know his terms, then we can see that Trno’s value of state property has not been reduced in exchange for the hospital, but who knew the working conditions in this hospital knows that it has been a long time for such a step. But we know that when you sell things, they're worth as much as you get for them, and you value them more than you do, but that's the way it is. I believe that, with this claim, that the invitation to tender has also been made without appropriate permission, when it is sufficient to have a view of the building law and the law on public procurement on the basis of which the Ministry of Health has signed these contracts. Interpellators also consider that diagnostic and therapeutic equipment in Slovenia is not subject to any standards. Well, if that were true, then according to your medical ethics, you should not use these natures because you would endanger the health of patients. However, I admit that doctors in Slovenia need to rely on European standards, which have already been enacted by the law of standardisation in 1999, until we adopt even higher standards. The easier it is to pass on unconfirmed and unverified claims than to learn under existing legislation, and the argument is that the Minister allows "operation tables" to happen. "Operation tables" don't happen, it's just that it's good to know who drinks here and who pays if we're invited to defend such serious things in such an easy tone. Under the Law on Institutions, the Director of the Clinical Centre responsible for Legality was responsible for the purchase of disputed operating tables. However, the Minister intervened in such a way that he appointed the Administrative Supervisory Board on time, which had already done its work. Perhaps it was almost the most difficult to determine what the applicants considered that Minister Keber had not taken care of the application of Article 25 of the CFSP. If this meant that the minister should add something else to what is already written in the public document, then he could say that the minister does not underestimate the citizens of Slovenia who read the laws for it. In fact, it is easier to answer questions and arguments that at least a little credibility and a person can put into another position and advocate in the debate. In this collection of lightly shaken blisters, there are the most simply unrealistic claims that a person cannot understand where they have taken them and what they have decided to waste our time on. No, the clinical center is not the owner of the skyscraper premises. With regard to the activities relating to the construction of the new paediatric clinic, the Minister has already appointed a working group in 2001 to oversee the preparation of the investment programme for the construction and supervision of the preparation of the investment programme of the new paediatric clinic, which has prepared all the investment documentation in full professional terms. With regard to donations, it should be added that they should be governed by a non-governmental organisation and not by a minister. It is also appropriate to be specific when accusing someone of not taking care of the collection and destruction of the waste of health facilities. In accordance with its powers, the Minister achieved a reduction in the price with both operators, which were already selected in 1995. On the issue of the public health service network, the criteria for its determination of the human resources policy were decided by the applicants to make a flat-rate indictment in terms of non-implementation of legal provisions on the resolution of human resources problems. Once again, it must be said that there is a public health service network that is precisely defined by the annual allocation of funds in agreement between the representatives of the Ministry of Health, the CFSP and others. Dear colleagues, no one claims that the existing healthcare system is flawless. If that were the case, then we wouldn't need changes and improvements. It is not a country in the world that is quite satisfied with the regulation of its concern for the health of citizens, and on this issue, copies are often broken in pre-election battles, all over the world. In Slovenia, the weakness of the existing system of distribution of funds and the determination of criteria is conditioned by the existing capacity of operators and at the same time insufficient consideration of the needs of citizens themselves. The Ministry of Health has thus followed the basic objective of its proposed reform, namely, to place in the centre of the healthcare system a citizen, a patient with his/her health needs and not his/her operators. To give you a case from a hospital where I work alone. We listened to the needs of the patients and adjusted their professional birth care. Surely, it is more important that a relative suffers less than perhaps a doctor should be famous for not knowing any new methods and so on. In short, humanity is essential, of course, apparatus is also needed. The novelty is also, of course, a model for the distribution of funds according to the content of the treatment in the acute sections of the SPP. This model represents an internationally established and standardised method for defining the unit of labour, the scope of individual treatment specialities and other elements for defining the public health network. It is only this way that we believe that the quality and transparency of the health system will increase. The topic was then a public debate, which really allowed the widest number of people to comment on the proposed criteria to be included in the rules on criteria for the creation of a public health service network. In view of the criticism of the number of health workers, of course, I must add that in the last year, the number of employees of health workers has increased, that there are more specialists, by 10.5%, and that additional resources have been allocated, the number of nurses and nurses has also increased. There are also additional therapies for this year, I think, 3.5 billion tolars. Dear colleagues, all relevant numbers corresponding to the actual state of affairs have been given in our written reply to the interpolation and is therefore not to be repeated. The important thing is that not much is needed, only a little across the border has to go and find comparisons elsewhere. As a doctor, I had the opportunity to see a variety of people in general and the hospital as well as a specialist level of health care for the population. It is not surprising, therefore, that Slovenia is slowly becoming the country in which foreigners are submitted to the provision of certain health services, because we can offer more: from greater hygiene, affordable prices of top services, to friendly, highly professional staff. And that's how we want to upgrade. Of course, not primarily for foreigners, but for domestic citizens. Many times I hear opinions from people who had to be treated in some other countries that they simply could not believe how low the standard is sometimes, and that the country is still so rich and internationally important. I was simply told that, compared to our breast cancer treatment system, women abroad would simply die at that rate of investigation. In Slovenia, however, she got away with it. Even post-operative controls are not comparable, as they are much more frequent and deepened in Slovenia. Fellow Members! The Minister did not explicitly disregard specific legal provisions in the field of human resources planning, in particular nurses, as a European regulation has already begun to be implemented, which establishes adequate high staff. I also have to cut down again compared to some other countries. Many European countries have problems with this profile of health workers and workers, so perhaps we are no exception. At the same time, I must point out that I really do not know why the writers of the text were not interested in the actual state of supply of medicines when they stated that imports of essential medicines were interrupted for a month. Of course, this claim is also quite unrealistic. It is true, however, that a major step has already been taken in this area and that there will be more order in this area in the future. When I read through the lines of interpolation, I seriously wondered what its purpose was. The applicants simply did not pay sufficient attention to the facts and wrote false and unfounded arguments. What's the cause of this? Is it possible that we simply do not hope with time forward and are afraid to introduce new ways of doing business in health by encouraging our internal reserves to help our patients? How can the interpolation authors record that the Minister illegally spent large budget resources on the preparation of the White Paper and that claims are dangerous for the origin of long-term health policy? In response, you can read these large numbers and with whom the Ministry of Health has cooperated. More importantly, with the proposed White Paper, the minister offered a new model of the public health system, placed it in the widest possible treatment, did not distribute it to some of his fellow thinkers and then insisted on its implementation. In short, things are still open. Not only do the data and findings of the White Paper appear to be incorrect and dangerous, but they also present confusion and uncertainty in the planning of health policy. As I said in the introduction, give specific objections, suggestions, concerns. Things are open, things are running. If something is wrong and dangerous, it is certainly the kind of scribe that was given to us in the form of interpolation. But with regard to confusion and uncertainty, I can say that I always encounter this phenomenon in people when they have, to say so, by "doctoral", "departmental" because of the skeletal way of work and look at any change really with true fear and uncertainty. It is easier then, of course, to throw away some popular jargon puffs wrapped in a cellophane legitimate tool of democracy, such as any interpretation against a minister. Just one more thing to say about the Minister's work so far, which has been criticised so many times. If anything, we cannot say for Minister Kebra that he was inactive during his term of office. The problems that his predecessors had somehow put aside during their term of office have been dealt with with with with with great commitment. In doing so, he often had to face not only different views of politics and professions but also some of the skeletal customs of our society. Let me remind you of only two sets of regulations that have fundamentally affected people's lives: rules on the limitation of alcohol consumption and regulations on restricting the consumption of tobacco products. The Minister hoped to propose the adoption of a law on the restriction of smoking and the consumption of alcoholic beverages, bearing in mind that this changes the overall Slovenian mentality and, at the same time, the approach to smoking, alcohol consumption and the like. Although both laws were quite unpopular at the time of their adoption in the national assembly and were foretold to have a short life, they can now be concluded that they had already reached their goal: the number of smokers had fallen, and alcohol consumption was gradually decreasing. However, the restriction on consumption of tobacco and alcohol is not intended for itself, they are part of a set of preventive measures in health, which have an impact both on human health in general and on the health sector itself. To what extent the number of days behind work has been reduced, how much reduction in the quantity of medicines used, such as savings in the health register, is likely to be difficult to measure, but the effects are visible. It should be pointed out that the Minister is the first one to have hoped to radically change the entire health system, aware of all the contradictions and problems in any such reform and change that you encounter as a necessity, in a way that can be envied by many, because he leads things in such a way, he would say that this reform can be envied by any social democratic party, because I think that these social moments are the most visible in this. As a gynecologist and obstetrician, I am particularly interested in monitoring the implementation of fertility treatment rules. We all know how pressing the problem is the decline of birthrates in Slovenia. Although the treatment of infertility does not appear to have an impact on the state of birth in the country due to the alleged small extent of the problem, it should be noted that in Slovenia there are already more than 10% of all couples infertility problems - 10%, I stress. The Law on the Treatment of Infertility by Infertility Procedures with Biomedical Aid, adopted by the National Assembly in 2000, has sufficiently regulated the way and conditions for the implementation of OBMP procedures and has also resolved certain ethical dilemmas in these procedures. In implementing the law, the Ministry of Health, together with the operators, has already noted significant progress in the treatment of infertility. A State Commission for OBMP has been set up to approve, monitor and record OBMP procedures. The Minister has already granted the three centres work licences and funds have also been provided for the successful implementation of the donor programme. Numbers also testify to the success of the law. Interesting, please listen! In 2003 more than 400 children were born in Slovenia with OBMP procedures - a large number! - representing more than 3% of all births. Thus, Slovenia is in this category in the European Summit itself, and only Denmark and Iceland are ahead of us. Equally good are data on prenatal mortality, infant mortality and similar. At the time of his term of office, Minister Keber took over his department at a time when health care was not only in financial and human resources but also in organisational difficulties. On the one hand, a number of financially demanding investments have to be made, such as a paediatric clinic, an oncological institute that will soon open its doors. On the other hand, the time has come when it was necessary to start reforming the entire health system. The minister was greeted by an empty health treasury, a health insurance system that called for radical changes. Therefore, the Ministry has undertaken one of the biggest reforms, in health care so far, a project that has received the name of the White Paper on Health Reform and reform, which has six main objectives, is a long-term project - not a short-term project, needs to be reiterated. A project that cannot be a project for just one person or a group of people, but must be adopted at national level and by consensus, we have repeatedly stressed this. They must be aware of the fact that the State must provide such a healthcare system that will enable all citizens to have access to quality health care and such a healthcare system as to provide such care. Every reform, in particular one that directly affects each of us, is under public scrutiny, both professional and citizens themselves. It gives rise to criticism, comments and differing opinions. That's certainly good. The reform of the health system concerns all of us, and we all have the right to our opinion, but it is also our duty to help, in our power, achieve the main objectives of this reform: fairness, accessibility, greater efficiency and quality of health services. And I'm not going to be too long, just what we've always been surrounded by, I'm sure, by what restrictions there will be in the area of providing health care for women and children; in short, terminations at the primary level of gynaecologists and pediatricians. This chapter is not in the white book; it does not belong in the white book; it needs to be stressed again. And I think that this protection will always remain for our families, and I think the Minister has once again stressed that this is what we are building together, but we are not liquidating as we hear it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Comrade Merlo. Comrade Sok has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I am not going to read a pre-prepared treaty and defend something that, of course, does not exist. I would just like to remind you, my fellow members of the coalition parties, that interpellation is an entirely legitimate means used by the opposition when it would like to point out some irregularities. No one claims that everything is wrong in our health care, but it is not good in our health that things are not going better, yes, and this will probably be appreciated by our citizens and citizens who thank God have the opportunity to listen to this debate. So they're the ones. It's probably hard for our citizens to understand all these affairs, I don't know, Trnovo Hospital, which the minister said had to turn on the light in the dark, that the cockroaches had run away, that he didn't walk them, and that he had to turn this building on at a price. They're probably having a hard time understanding this whole operation table affair. Look, they understand very well how our health care is organised, how long they must wait to come in line, what services are offered to them, how much the medicine costs in the pharmacy and if they put it on the scale, then of course they can find out that this minister, who has been really dynamic, who has twice on television every week, who has made sure that he has come into confrontation with all doctors, also citizens and citizens who have rejected in the referendum such a pompous law as artificial fertilization, then you did not ask for 600 million, today you ask yourself, however - Mr Bevk asked - even though then the entire professional public in this area told you that it was inappropriate, you forcefully enforced it, and then people rejected it. Of course, the best and most appropriate by the minister would then be if he took this objective responsibility on himself and then said: my value orientation is such, actually I'm not doing much for people, I'll leave this place to someone else, then today would not be an interpretation against him. Now, what I really wanted and what I want to point out. In our health care really something's wrong, something's wrong, and I'm going to tell myself on my own case that no one will tell me that I'm saying something on my mind. I got my personal doctor's card for the cardiologist. I'm not gonna name the nearest hospital, so I checked in, and you know I was ordered in two months and a half. They said you could come here in two months. Then, of course, I waited two and a half months because I knew that on that date I wouldn't be able to go to the hospital, I called the hospital, I expected to be ordered for a few days and someone else was called instead of me, who was also waiting for two months and a half. What they did - they said: yes, if you can't come, then we can order you for the next two months and a half! But I arrived two and a half months later, it was said, five months later, almost half a year later, and then the doctor who was supposed to examine me was at the hospital; the other did not examine me. Then I turned to a private cardiologist with a concession, but there I came, to tell you the truth, in turn immediately: He said: You are in such a state that we must look at you immediately, and today here by you, colleagues, on the radio I listened to you, say that private health should be corrected by public, something marginal, at the edge. People of God, what we've developed in this country, this health system, I've told the minister once before, this is a medical chimera, this is something that works very well just for human health, you mustn't be sick. If you get sick in this system, yes, then before they treat you the way you should, even though we pay for it all is true, so is the situation in our rural area. I am not saying that this is so in Ljubljana, thank God if it isn't, but we are facing these problems. And the people watching us today can confirm this and know what level of service is being offered to them today, and they also wonder why they come across it in our health care. With this health reform that you are proposing and that you say is actually the LDS electoral programme, you are saying that you are advocating justice, quality, solidarity, accessibility - I don't know how you're going to prove it to people when they can read a little bit back that the health home directors are among the most paid in this country to receive up to a million and a half gross wages. How are you gonna tell people that one operating table can cost, I don't know, 30 million, as much as a one-bedroom house? You'll find it hard to convince them, I don't think so. And they will understand what we are telling them that this health reform is just an attempt at financial consolidation. It is said that this optional health insurance is poured into mandatory, and then for those who have something under their thumb, additional insurance is provided. And you say that everyone will be treated equally, that all the same waiting types will experience - this is simply impossible to believe. And with all this balance, when you say you're in favor of the poorest layers, dear colleagues of the ruling coalition, you've been in power for 12 years! If the poorest layers in this country are created, then ask yourself why - because of all these affairs that plague this society, where millions do not inherit in this transition, billions of people do! What did you do against it? If this money - you're talking about a referendum - if this money were to be used for health care, of course our health care today would work much differently than it does, much differently. And the burdens for all citizens would be significantly lower. We pay a lot in this healthcare system, but we don't get what we expect from this health system. And that is why, Mr Minister, who has dealt with some other topics that have been very dynamic in public, but unfortunately, most times in different affairs, because if Mr Minister did what we expect citizens and citizens to do from him, of course this interpretation would not be today. So, to conclude, since I'm running out of time, I'm voting for today's interpolation. I'd love it very much if Minister Keber realized that he actually needed someone else to take his place. However, I am comforted by the fact that after a few months of elections, and that some great damage by then, with all that he has done, cannot be done anymore and that this system will then have to be radically changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. The next one has the word of his colleague Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. All hail, Mr Minister, with the team and all fellow Members! If I return somewhat to the debate that the Minister had and then to his intervention, he has served us with the very best data in this discussion. And if we listen to Slovenian ruling policy, then we are actually everywhere before Europe or Europe, and then a man wonders why we are actually pushing Europe into this. However, usually there is a clear difference between the statistics we receive and the facts between the actual situation. One of the data served by the Minister is that over the last two years the life expectancy has increased by half a year. It's a lot to say. But in these eight hours, what we're here, it means that this life span has also extended by one quarter, it says, in two hours. And it is obvious that this debate is of great benefit to us. However, the problem is that, at the same time, the Minister did not tell us how much longer the life expectancy has been in the other countries of this Alpine area to which we belong. I think that, as far as life is concerned, one of the key problems is that we have about a 10-year shorter life span than everyone else in this middle-alpine space. This means that every citizen in this country who dies is deprived of 100 or 120 pensions. This is just a fact of this life, and as one of the colleagues had discussed previously what quality health care we had before, this is also due to certain activities in previous periods in this area. In short, I think we are doing very little in this society in order to extend life. One of the problems or important problems is that our young people, especially high school youth, do not even have a proper diet in high school. And even though we have repeatedly proposed this, marriage is also in place, very little is done in this area. We are not prepared to invest absolutely nothing in these preventive measures to at least ensure that young people start their active working life in full and healthy conditions. The fact is that one of his colleagues also mentioned that the state budget had increased dramatically during Mr Kebra's ministry. It is a fact, but it has been accepted by the National Assembly, or we have accepted it, and we have proposed even more supplements and increases in the state budget in the field of health, but more or less these proposals have been completely rejected. The problem is not just how much the state budget has increased. The problem also arises in the part where the state budget is implemented. And in this interpretation, there are two cases in which the implementation of the State budget was carried out exceptionally domestically. That's what it says, past the law, over everything. The fact is, in the case of the thorny hospital and the skyscraper, we can only get one offer if the two agree to be the only two buyers in the business. There was no procedure in place to actually define this, that there were only two of them in business. And all the business has been concluded by Mr. Minister and Mrs. Potočnik. Something similar happened in the area of disinfection waste, when both suppliers simply merged into one. And we actually got a system that wasn't verifiable on the market. In short, it is extremely unrealistic to do these projects at home. A particular problem is that the Public Procurement Office, which is legally bound by law to give an opinion on such a procedure, has confirmed this procedure and has authorised it only on the basis of the contracting authority’s documentation in the request for an opinion. In short, the Public Procurement Office has not even checked whether in practice it is the only provider in Slovenia. And in this way it is simply not possible to form a suitable or competitive price. In short, it's a logistical approach. We have several more cases here, which have also recently come out in other areas, including in the area of reform, including in the field of certain projects. And in all of these cases, if I only mention, say, a contract for the production of IT standards in Slovenian health or a contract for the development of the management and management functions of the system, it was in all cases for the termination of a contract at a certain stage. In short, probably even without the procedure, this agreement was concluded, interrupted at some stage in half, paid off to the contractors for that part, the projects remained unfinished and then those things, the completion of the projects, were given to some other subcontractors. And the bigger the problem, the overall price of all these matters was higher than in the basic contract with the basic contractor. In fact, I would like to know why - or if it is even to these operators that have not completed their business in accordance with expectations, in accordance with the objectives of the contract, in accordance with the project, if these have been recovered or requested to recover the funds paid. Another problem that is present in these contracts is prices, it is abnormal to conclude a contract for administrative work at a price, the daily price of an administrator of 38,000 tolar; in short, this administrator, who can, for example, have a keyboard course, gets a paid minimum wage in two days. A slightly higher professional worker of 71,000, that is to say, the salary of the president of the National Assembly and something else along the way - the burto. I think that the contracts signed on these amounts are very high and have absolutely no basis in this real state. And then one of the MPs tells us we're not social! I wonder where there is what is social if the administrator gets - and this contract lasts for two years - in one month about 720,000 gross wages or the cost is 720,000 gross. Is that social, or is that arranged or lobbying? And it's obvious that this whole of health care is controlled by the lobbies themselves, you mentioned something earlier, and these lobbies also dictate the needs, investments and so on. In short, that's the only way things work. But when we talk about social problems, they're probably going somewhere else and they're just being manipulated. Let's say that it is not a doctor who so sovereignly advocates medical professional solutions and his expertise that it is not somehow strange that, in fact, with the same zeal, he also advocates financial, economic, technical and other solutions with the same zeal, but at the same time we find that he has absolutely no sense of a wage-relationship in both the public and private sectors, absolutely no sense. Such dispersion of funds is mainly at the expense of the quantity of health services. The fact is that because of this money, because it is thus taken out of the healthcare system, for interventions is significantly less than it could have been, and it is running out of money for both operations and equipment. As a result, waiting periods are longer, as a result of which disease progresses, and as a result, citizens of this country die needlessly too young. This problem of waiting days and early calming is faced sooner or later by the majority of citizens and some of the voters who have the opportunity to pay for it somehow avoid it. And everyone else faces it sooner or later. Another problem I would like to draw his attention to is that there is absolutely no supervision of salaries, especially of leading healthcare workers. We've been getting acquainted with enormous salaries lately. These salaries are probably not from yesterday and not only since March of last year, but apparently these salaries have been happening for a long time, systemicly, and probably also someone, probably the minister, is familiar with these salaries. And absolutely nothing in this area has been done! I think it would be right for the Minister to inform us of how long these high benefits have been operating or how long they have been paid, because it is likely to be a breach of legislation, both in the field of contract work and in the field of overtime and probably more; in short, it is a bigger problem. In this area, however, the educational process is also ineffective, as the whole system is being resolved only by people coming from other backgrounds, and these people are likely to repeat the entire learning process at the cost of this country, so that things can be ostrified instead of setting up education in time for us, for which we certainly have enough staff and opportunities. I think that the interpellation that has been submitted with these areas is justified, although the minister with his, I could say with almost fairytale performance that he was trying to minimize, deny or speak in particular about other things. In short, it's an illegal use of funds and a variety of other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u69	Dr. Keber told me that a few things have come up that he would like to either explain or comment on. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u70	Dear Members and Members! Of course, I'm also going to sort of glean about things that seem important to me to explain, and maybe I'll jump from the subject that I apologize for in advance. First of all, the answer to Member Bajuk, who says that we have more than four fifths of insurance. I don't blame him for not knowing. We have 25% of insurance or private payments and about 75% of public payments. Perhaps the apparent difference, however, makes this country a lower third if we compare ourselves with the European Union. When 25% of the entire budget is thought to be divided, and those who know it, they need to understand this when 25% of the money has to be collected by a citizen with single premiums or direct payments, which is also there in this country, then, of course, the pressure of the person in the lower social classes who is burdened with it is felt. It is very interesting that Dr. Bajuk, who, by the way, is obviously not aware of private insurance today or perhaps on the previous issue, otherwise I accept intergenerational solidarity in supplementary insurance as normal. Let me mention that real private insurance doesn't even know this solidarity because it's private, and that's exactly the proof - thank God it's at least that! - intergenerational solidarity that the legislator was then aware of what it was becoming. But if we have an intergenerational, which is also an insurance - after all, that means we have no risk, because it is clear that the older population is somehow five times more at risk than the rest, of course, the question is why this second step is no longer. Why not also have social solidarity among the social classes? One yes, the other no. So why pay richer, or those who have 20 times more wages, why in his opinion would they pay the same premium as those who have 100,000 gross earnings? Next, I would like to answer Mr Petty Officer, I think that was his comment that we have now checked - he quoted the appreciater, Mr Permet. He is not an authorized public appreciater, which means that he is not qualified or other reasons for not being selected as a valuer of state property. And taking into account his appreciation, that would be a violation of the procedure. I must also reply again to Mr Petty Officer that he does not distinguish between a change in purpose and a change in use. Therefore, I should like to quote Article 2 of the Buildings Act: "The change of destination is such a change in the use of the facility or its work, in order to increase the impact of the facility on the environment as a result, and the change in use does not increase the impact on the environment, and therefore no building permit is required." It is clear that changing outpatients back to the office do not increase the impact on the environment, so it was a change of use. I would also like to refer to the discussion as to what powers KC or even the will of the clinical centre to order or enforce something across from the founder. Of course, it's a matter of logic. The Council of the Clinical Centre did not decide on the purchase, even because the possession of the immovable property of the State does not fall within the competence of the manager of that property, that is, the institution, but the owner, that is, the Republic of Slovenia and on its behalf the Ministry of Health. This is provided for in the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Law on Institutions. While cited, paragraph 29 of the decision on the conversion of KC, which you quoted, specifies not in the direction we have heard, but in the opposite direction that the clinical centre is responsible to the founder of the management and management of the property. Let me also mention a brief contribution, which is important because of the citizens - a re-debate on generics, on our measure to replace similar medicines, which will save the health system between two and three billion at the annual level. Generic medicinal products are substantially similar to the originals, have the same chemical substance, release the same dose and are bioequivalent. They are, of course, cheaper because their development is cheaper because they come to market after patent protection has expired. We know all of this. And it makes sense that we have introduced this system as one of the last countries in Europe. I do not understand exactly why he mentioned the case of osteoporosis and calcium for a hypothetical citizen who would not tolerate calcium. Let me mention that on the market and also as a possibility of prescribing in the public system we have a bunch of medicines, not just calcium, which is just adjuvant, but we have calcitonin, bisphosphonates, vitamin D and so on. When the doctor decides what medicine he needs, our citizen or citizen will receive this medicine and will not have to pay it out of his pocket. You have still been mentioned by these high contractual values of foreign or domestic experts on a project carried out or carried out by this Ministry over the past four, five years. Let me reiterate that these prices, which are also held by the Chamber of Commerce, do not mean the direct personal income of the carrier: the administrators mentioned by you do not have a top performer, but go, they are usually intended for from one third to half of this money. It is necessary to cover the company which hires such a researcher or an official, the costs of training, the cost of replacing an employee on a project in the event of absence, the cost of operation, the cost of finding a business, the profits of the company and, of course, the loss of business. In short, the risk of future business. After all, even though it is relatively difficult to compare a person in a state administration, we hypothetically made this comparison, it does not cost just its gross wages. This person also needs something called the cost of a job, after all, this computer standing in front of me. That is why and only from this I said that, for example, what was quoted for informatics from the Maribor company when we compare it in this way is that computerist, if we convert it into a monthly salary, paid in the same way as the Undersecretary of State. There was also mention of the stepmother's behaviour towards Slovenian co-workers on the project. First of all, I said this earlier today that we are working on this project because we are working in this system: we are working in the ministry because we are improving the system, Slovenian contractors are working because this project is actually working to improve hospitals, health institutions and so on. That means they're doing their job in some way. Nevertheless, even for the Slovenian part of this wider group of operators, money is intended, which will, of course, be paid after the pre-planned procedure when they commit their tasks or projects. To the gentleman or Members who spoke and who pointed out in the distance that the number 3 annex for infectious waste was signed somewhere in November 2002, and this was proved by invoices that were still issued at higher value, that is to say, at the old price, that I can also show the contracts or accounts that were paid for June this year and which were already charged at a new price. Therefore, as of June 2002, at least one operator has been able to charge lower prices and by special letter to all its customers on 30 May 2002 has also reported that new prices have been introduced. So a general contract, or annex, actually that wasn't signed six months later. The debate that at the time of the sale of the Trnovo clinic there was some more or less for a kind commitment, that the money from the purchase will be spent by the manager of the Trnovo hospital, of course, does not have a very solid legal connection with how we view the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The funds from the sale are the revenue of the budget and they flow into the fund for investments in public health institutions, the budget is integrated, some Members have already said before me, and therefore there is no rule or practice that the acquired funds should be used in the same institution by sale. That would mean building a new hospital and then selling that old hospital to give that money back to the hospital. It makes sense that it doesn't make sense. But it is true that we promised this to the clinical centre, we promised him - and this is written in that agreement - for moving the clinic of Trnovo and, I will not say, for the initial resolution of the two clinical departments that you quoted here today. In the midst of the bang, life turned out differently. The clinical centre itself provided the means to move the clinical section of Trnovo, and in between it had two or three catastrophic events that we cited. We have spent the same money on a computer tomographer, two X-rays, on clinical equipment and, as I said, on the rescue of the clinical department for intensive internal medicine - as I said, there is no room in the clinical centre to build this department now, for this department needs a double square from today, at least. This solution is therefore envisaged and will be provided by 2006. So let me say again: there was no damage, no state property, this was confirmed by the institutions in charge of identifying it. It is true that in Skytičnik employees of the Ministry of Health work. It is true that the Ministry works in four locations to pay high costs if we were to rent new premises for this square, the rent would cost us 17 million per year or in three years, until the planned move of 50 million. And that is why, of course, it is perfectly logical that when the State of the Republic of Slovenia, as a purchase, has acquired the premises that touch our premises in order to make them available to us for temporary use. Member Jerovšek wanted to challenge me and accept this challenge, what is working with OBMP: did you have a bad minister at the referendum on the artificial insemination of women themselves or citizens of Slovenia? I accept the institution of the referendum and accept the institution of the majority vote, which does not mean that I have changed my mind. Advocacy for a minority is a special concern in a democratic society, this is the task of the country that I think we belong to, and I think we belong to it practically in all things, not just in all things. The democratic state and the claim only for the rights of the majority - we have already achieved, I think we have. Advocacy for the majority is also a referendum. Minority issues, the issue of minority rights, whether we want to command or prohibit a minority - my personal opinion is that it does not belong to the referendums. In this way, we will be able to pass a death sentence or something, and when you ask me if I now support the death penalty, I will say: I do not support it! Just as I do not support, for example, new referendums that raise new minority issues. From OBMP to deleted there is no more than one step. Mr Pukšič spoke about the problem of uneven accessibility across regions. In my introduction, I said what we had done to make it even between regions. I said that this instant difference between the number of doctors per population in the range plus, minus 5%, which is significantly better. We have improved the situation, and some so-called white foxes have been filled with special measures. But let me just say as an interesting point that when we proposed additional criteria to other partners in 2003 to cover these inequalities - say, the rate of mortality and the index of human development and the density of the population by municipality - these criteria were rejected during the negotiations. As you know, the partners are contractors and health insurance companies and have been rejected by the operators. In other ways, however, we have tried to work and in this year again propose these criteria, which should further narrow down this difference in the number of doctors and other health workers at regional or local level. The crumb for which we may have specifically asked from the health insurance office to mention it is a bit embarrassing to me, but nevertheless - they tell me that the institution has no exclusive contract with the company of Dimnik's daughter, whatever the name is. Not only does he have no contract, but such an undertaking has not entered into an invitation to tender either. In your information, however, the Health Insurance Office is a separate legal person. You will likely recall this when we spoke on other occasions about autonomy and the necessary autonomy of this institution and its independence from the government. The Director shall be appointed by the Assembly, the Consent shall give the State Assembly and the supervision of financial transactions shall be the responsibility of the Court of Auditors. Member Drobnič mentioned drinking water and the Ministry’s decision to extend the use of drinking water to Ljubljana for three years which endangers human health. Again because of the citizens: we regret to scare them by answering these questions at least once, perhaps repeatedly, in Parliament. The criteria, the stricter criteria that have now come under the directives, mean the absence of certain substances, such as atrazine in drinking water. And since these criteria have been cut 20 times, they have apparently declared our water in a certain part less good. In doing so, however, it is true that the quantity of atrazine in Slovenian water is steadily falling, which is right because we banned it. But his half-life is long and won't go away in a short time. However, in the city of Ljubljana, we excluded or ordered Vodovod and sewerage by special regime and special order to selectively exclude those pumps that would be high-burdened. However, the health criteria prescribed by the World Health Organization are 20 times higher. Mr Tanko asks - it is right that the life expectancy in Slovenia is extended, but I did not say anything about the comparison with other countries, so let me fix this. The life expectancy is approaching the average in Europe, that is to say, the difference is shrinking, it has come to three years and is already better than, for example, Portugal or Ireland if I mention two countries in the European Union that are 15 years old. This means that Slovenia is making life expectancy longer than Europe, which is logical of course - life has its final number and is approaching the plateau. I would like to mention something else about the salaries of directors in the healthcare system. This is what has been said in recent weeks, a well-founded public opinion, and it is right to say a few sentences on this subject. First, I would like to say that the position of the Ministry of Health is different from that of other authorities directly paying salaries: for example, education or police. The Ministry of Health doesn't pay. The Ministry of Health has a small budget, while wage money is paid through the service system, through the allocation of money we discussed today, directly from the payer, the health insurance agency, to individual operators. Therefore, of course, above the legality, above the regularity of payment of salaries, the Director is responsible in an individual institution, in the following instance also the Council of the Institution in which the founder has its members and then the Court of Auditors. Let me mention that the salaries that have been in the public and which have been in the public for each month have been seriously responded to by the Ministry and, in one case, by the Court of Auditors, this will be judged by the Court of Auditors, in fact, that it is an excessive payment of the salary, that it is a mistake and that this error will have to be corrected if the Court of Auditors considers it necessary to correct it in the form of a refund. In another case, it's probably not a mistake, but we've decided on administrative supervision and we'll check it out. In all other cases, according to previous studies, these are individual, monthly payments when the directors have been paid either performance or other forms of supplementary income, which do not in any way mean their regular income each month. That is why we believe that, in the case of all many health care institutions, especially if the final result is such, we do not want to say that we are satisfied with this, but we are pleased that, now, the law on the system of wages, which will be enforced by 1.7 and which enforces the principle of public wages, allows from now on, the Ministry of Health to look under greater scrutiny and, with a greater possibility, to monitor wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. My colleague Dr. Bayuk wanted a replica of your performance, for an explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I don't know why you always - I won't always say it, but now again, and I'm already used to it by government representatives - you start with some personal discrimination. I know you don't know anything, but we forgive you. Mr Minister, I know well, I was talking about four-fifths in some flat-rate sense; I can give you the data - in fact 24% - of all health expenditure comes from two sources: one is insurance and the other is flat-rate expenditure that we have to pay. Well, don't talk like that because I didn't discriminate. On the contrary, I'm telling you, I'm surprised you're consciously doing these things and consciously not talking about these things the way you should. The problem is that you do not want to admit that in fact your proposal is completely impractical in its essence, because it is a voluntary insurance which you have decided to decide on the basis of some criteria that are not exactly marketable. And you refer to the French model and I explained to you that in the French model you are consciously wrong because you do not want to admit that the French model actually uses an additional source and this source is this special income tax. Revenue from all sources, including investment revenue. Everything a man has, that is, the taxation of capital for this whole thing. And I've made it clear to you that the key issue for the success of any scheme, one or the other, is to get as many people as possible into the system. And that if you insist on such proposals as are legally impractical, rigorous, normal economy does not know that you will not be able to do so. And if you don't do that, you will eventually destroy this system that we have, which is not perfect, but only admits the essence of intergenerational solidarity in that young people are also paying for me to pay less, and everyone who's older. And we also have to admit that, because if it wasn't for that, older people today should pay 18,000 tolars, and these young people should pay 2, after some calculations that we can re-examine. I'm sure you understand that. That by setting equality for all for this part in Slovenia. And yet you're not suggesting anything about flat-rate expenditure. So, Mr Minister, in fact, you are wrong about this matter, you will do great damage if you insist on one scheme, which experts have already told you is not the case. But you insist.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u73	Mr. Bajuk, the Minister would like to explain now, please. Then I'll finish this and give my word to my colleague. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u74	It's an opportunity to explain. What Member Bajuk opens in principle, I agree, and this is also written in the White Paper. In fact, Bismarck's model of social insurance, based solely on salaries, is less fair than models of taxes based on all citizens' incomes. However, there is also a tradition to be taken into account in this country, a number of debates that I will not even mention, partly in this House, or in the public debate of the White Paper, unshakablely support our system, not of state taxes that burden all incomes, but of social insurance that burdens wages. That's true, Mr. Bayuk, but it's self-involved. Employers and employees. However, our model, which we are proposing, is our model, which we are proposing as a model that we call income-dependent premiums, which is this model that we are proposing to cover so that the premiums will become income-dependent, and this part depends on all income. That's what we've told the public, that is, it's going to depend on tax classes and not on wages. So at least in this part of the money that we're going to raise in this way, we're going to look at all the incomes, including those that aren't in the pay system. And let me also say, even the white book, of course, opens up, relatively modestly, but still opens up, but I think we will be able to change some of the contribution rates for those groups of citizens who have been so far -- let's say it's too little, or it's considered that their contribution rate is too low. In particular, we have self-employed people in mind, and some other groups, although many countries have a particular problem in determining the appropriate basis for the contribution rate. Let him also mention that the tax, the so-called social tax, which France has mentioned, of course means the right tax. As a result, it has been able to reduce the compulsory insurance or contribution rate for compulsory insurance and, of course, this part has no link with the supplementary insurance in France, which I believe is the same for Mr Bajuk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u75	Good. That's how they explained it. We are now continuing the debate. Colleague Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Now I have this opportunity to use these few minutes left. As far as observing the health insurance system is concerned, I am fortunate to see it as a healthy person and not as a daily user or whatever - I rarely use it. However, I had the opportunity to observe it daily during the period when Mother was sick and used this system for four or five years very intensely. I must say that the health care and care system works very well, unlike some who here very much criticised the unwillingness of nurses, and that during that period, for five years I went to Golnik or Petra Graj hospital, admired those women as well as men who actually approached with so much enthusiasm all with the same goodwill. I can only say that this is a difficult profession that is not as easy to carry out as a medical profession, if you have to treat a patient, it is also very difficult. I mean, it's easy to turn statistics around and have global debates on health, but when a concrete situation comes up, it's much harder. Well, in terms of privacy and privacy, I think it's clear to everyone that the system will not be able to function only in private and not only in private and not in public. It is so much more important for all of us that we are able in the country and within the Ministry to define this public network with all the principles of standards and norms and then put either private or private in this network and leave the possibility to private capital, and no matter where it comes from to enter this place and offer those services and services that unfortunately we cannot offer from public resources. That is why I think that this system needs to be strengthened in one way and for no different reasons do I know why. As regards the legitimacy of interpolation and legality, as my colleague, Mr Sok said. I have made it clear that this is an instrument that is purely legitimate and legal and can be used by the opposition for all possible purposes, including to promote its opinions, views and views on reform, on individual issues and all that. It is only a question of how to use this institution responsible; whether it is responsible enough; or whether it can argue and give alternatives if it considers that the options offered are not the best. This means that if a colleague, Mr Bajuk, believes that the French way of insurance is better, he should explain it, but should explain it to accuracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. I don't see my friend Kangler in the hall, so I'm inviting my colleague Cveto Zalokar Orazem. You have the floor, colleague Orzam. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would like to talk about the situation at the primary level, which is in health care at the local level. At the time of the exercise of private work with the concession after 1992, there was a lack of guidance at the level of the State and the irresponsible conduct of individual municipalities in certain environments, so to speak, until the collapse of the public health network, since more than 900 concessions were granted by the municipalities in that period until 2000. Most concessionaires wanted to move to their own premises, so they became health-care homes empty and thus existing capacities, built also by self-sustainment, were used recklessly. There have also been many threats to continuous health care in the context of on-calls, and a number of problems have arisen with regard to the operation of a number of common functions that concessionaires did not wish to perform or co-finance. In doing so, I can say with certainty that this situation, which led to the collapse of the public health network at local level, was the worst and most disturbing concern in those environments and municipalities led by the representatives of those parties who made an intervention against Minister Kebra. It is thanks to Minister Kebra that he stopped these negative trends as he issued recommendations to the municipalities in early 2002 for the award of concessions at the primary level. With them, he set up health homes as basic health care providers at primary level, with no extension of the health network at the time of granting the concessions, which would bring higher costs, while maintaining at least equal access to services for all. The Minister made recommendations regarding the relationship between public and private or licensed work and the municipalities, recommending that private concessionaires also carry out their activities in health homes under appropriate conditions of non-profit rental. The municipalities, however, received instructions on how to regulate the functioning and financing of all those activities necessary for the smooth functioning and provision of continuous healthcare for citizens within the public health network. Since general health, dental care, child and youth protection, and women, physiotherapy, patronage and pharmacy activities work at the primary level, it is of paramount importance that the Minister has adopted recommendations and criteria to protect the functioning of health homes, as they are encountered by most residents almost daily. In doing so, it must be said that negative trends have been halted; in healthcare homes, they no longer have rented rooms for florist and other non-health activities. Only 95 concessions were granted at the primary level in the period since 2000. Clearly, such a concept of public health development and preservation is not acceptable to everyone. To many individuals who were led by entirely others, even profitive purposes, the minister may well have resented him. I consider this move and courage to be a great and important success, which is certainly in favour of the widest range of healthcare users. Minister Keber was also the first minister not to put problems under the carpet, but to deal with them with them with courage, to open a wide debate and to take action to resolve them. This was the first time that the so-called medical errors were spoken of, that he engaged in irrational spending of resources in individual institutions, that he introduced control and control, and that he finally prepared everything for a new method of funding according to diagnosis and no matter what bed days. A number of savings have also been and will be created in order to prescribe medicines. The third heart surgery center in Isola will also be launched. As the minister reached out to a number of long-standing and inherited privileges, including large sums of money, he unfortunately gained new opponents. Many of the problems that have led to frank talk, for example, the lack of doctors, the use of equipment, the modest means of investment, etc., have accumulated for years and years, in fact, decades, and today the impression is that it is their fault that the last person who came to see them and went to them and, I can say, successfully solved them. It also seems to me that it is unusual for the interpellation candidates to read it, quote, 'wrong assessments, substantive errors and unclear plans in the White Paper'. The White Paper is important for this country, a necessary document, a document with which a broad and necessary public debate has been opened, how to change and reform healthcare in order to be more effective and accessible. It is supposed to be in many places, I quote again the interpelliers 'wrong and very dangerous starting points for long-term health policy'. It follows from the foregoing that he is to be guilty of something that has not yet been implemented, that laws have not yet been proposed; but it is true that some of the measures that he is responsible for as Minister and also has the appropriate powers have already begun to be achieved by the majority consensus. So again, perfect absurdity. It's his fault that we're talking about problems and problems in the first place. He's guilty because, as Minister, he worked and not as many as he did before him and left things to go his own way. Obviously, many lobbyists fear the solutions that health reform is supposed to bring, so a minister who wants to make changes needs to be stopped and disabled. But the vast majority of our country’s inhabitants want change because they are not satisfied with what we especially feel on our skin every day. Let me conclude with a rhetorical question in the style of my fellow Member who sees and experiences in every matter a hidden and dangerous background: Who and why is he afraid of changes in health policy? Why do you have to stop Minister Kebra?
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much, colleague of the Flowers of Zalokar Orzam. The next one has a word - at least that's what's on my list, and if anything's wrong, we'll take that into account - Comrade Drobnič or Maja Zupan. However, there is no Comrade Petty Officer - not that there will be misunderstandings. Okay, so this town is busy. My friend Visjak has a word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is obvious that the hour has an impact on the patience of our minister, but I would nevertheless like to highlight an important aspect that he has already been exposed to today, but not with enough attention, I think. However, this is mainly the 5th point of the interpretation with the drying-up title "No implementation of legal provisions on the resolution of human resources problems". In particular, I would like to highlight the neglected attitude towards the network, particularly at a secondary level, this is the network of regional hospitals and their human resources equipment, and even more equipment in terms of modern equipment for the implementation of this level of health. The situation in Slovenia has deteriorated in this area from day to day over the last period. And I'm just wondering, on the basis of which data the respected minister spoke only about 5% of the tolerance of differences within individual hospitals and regions, when it is at point 5 that he is actually told that we still do not have a clear picture of the situation or a long-term plan to address the needs of the staff, especially the doctors and nurses. Therefore, the capacity of this public health service is significantly deteriorating from the aircraft of the year. So if we're talking about a human resources gap, we need to have a clear picture. We cannot have a clear picture because it is not executed and it is not based on the law on medical services produced by sub-laws, the distribution of medical jobs in the public health service network. The public health service network in the Republic of Slovenia at secondary level is to be established by a government with a specific regulation within four months of the adoption of the law and the criteria for the implementation of this programme. Unfortunately, none of this has been done. The Minister says in his reply that there are some problems in coordination and that something is preparing. In short, I would like to say that the neglect and stepmotherly attitude of the Ministry and the Treasury towards an adequate state of affairs, both professional and especially human resources, as well as in the equipment of regional hospitals per year. Of course, there is a problem that in these hospitals, some people also tend to look harder for their needs and go to the center. This once again weakens the secondary network and, of course, gives the minister an argument that he is even less funded in these hospitals at the secondary level. This is therefore a chain reaction that will eventually cause this secondary level network to fall apart, if we leave this process forward and that we will strengthen the centre, where we will probably have to upgrade additional spaces, because the pressure on the existing health supply or the ability of the clinical centre in Ljubljana will increase, because all or most of them are leaving for Ljubljana. I do not think that the Minister has taken the necessary steps here, the necessary steps to strengthen the hospital network and thus the Scandinavian level of health care, to keep this right, with good human resources policy and with the effective equipping of these hospitals, patients and, of course, to allow, in particular, to make this secondary level more accessible to citizens under the same conditions as it has so far been. In fact, someone from Bizellski has significantly longer to the hospital in Ljubljana than, of course, someone from Ljubljana itself. And I think that if we want to stick to the principles of quality, solidarity, accessibility, then, of course, we also have to do something about the secondary network. I personally believe that hospitals are facing ever more pressing funding problems and, worse still, the departure of patients or those looking for their services to the centres. And I think that's bad for perspective and that there's something that needs to be done here. In 1999, Parliament laid down this, and the lack of hope was also laid down in the National Health Programme, and unfortunately none of this. And this is also a fundamental observation of the fifth point of interpolation. I would also like to touch on the same subject raised by honourable fellow Member Cveta Zalokar Orazem, this conflict on one side of capital health and on the other side of public health. And he says how the well-respected minister has dealt with it, and we're reading cases where that's not the case. The case of the Ptuj healthcare home has already experienced another attempt to break up, interestingly, since from 1991, when it was 307, until the end of last year, when there were only 187 employees, because, according to Mayor Lucius, the primary health network concessions were granted exclusively by the mayor, the mayor of the political option in some way achieved that there were 38 doctors and 40 private doctors in the public health sector. So who's breaking the public network? And I'm asking you -- I don't mind the private, nothing at all, but I'm against this way to one side [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u81	Don't argue with the bench, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u82	We break down public institutions that care and work in the public interest and, on the other hand, we drop too many, too many private people who work in a different way. [[...]] What is normal, for profit from privacy is, of course, treated differently than profit in a public institution that must be invested. I therefore believe that the Minister has done little here to protect the public service and to protect the existing network of health homes and that in some environments, where local communities have also been more vulnerable to privacy, the matter has escaped and public institutions are at risk. I think it's very bad for the primary health care network. Very bad! That is why I agree with the idea of the Member, but when he talks about the merits, I do not agree, because I think that we should do more here and that there is also a part of the responsibility of the distinguished Minister. Let's just end up talking about waiting lines. With waiting types, respected colleagues, it is almost like unemployment or employment with us. If they are proposals, we make administrative exercises so that they are still so long or longer, but we show them shorter. The same is true of unemployment. When the numbers were a little too high, we administratively corrected and a certain circle of people, and those who were unemployed, reclassified that they were no longer. So they fixed the records, they cut the hair, and all of a sudden they're good numbers. Since when is the waiting line counted and the waiting period is very dependent. And the waiting periods are, unfortunately - many examples of this in us prove that unfortunately they are essential, essential too long, in some cases even prolonging. This is very bad for the future of the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u83	I listened very carefully, colleague Orzmova was mentioned in your performance, and she probably wants to give an explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I did not want to mention specific health homes in my debate, but I thank my colleague Visiak, because in my mind and in my knowledge it was the health house Ptuj who I wanted to mention. In doing so, I would just like to explain that according to our known information, Mayor LDS, Mr Štefan Čelan, has not yet granted any concessions in his mandate, but that all the concessions that have created this relationship that could in fact completely destroy the health house of Ptuj, which was granted at the time of the mayorship of Mr Lucija, SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u85	We are putting an end to this clarification of our views and are moving forward with the debate. Please explain. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u86	It'll be shorter. Of course, I don't think that's true. For in fact, I come from the information available to me and, in fact, from the current mayor, Stefan Chelan, the pressure and number of applicants wishing to obtain the concession is virtually beyond those frameworks I have said and further undermines the existing fragile balance in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u87	Good. Peace. We're concluding that explanation. My colleague, Shirtz, now has the floor because I don't see a colleague of Trofenika. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Shirtz's colleague has one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you very much. It's not long since I read in the daily newspaper a comment that engulfed the opposition, that it's getting boring with deleted ones and I could change course with another topic. The comment itself inspired the interpolation, since you haven't been happening lately and it's been a while. And it wasn't really long before they got to table two. Today, when I listen to the explanations of the applicants of this interpretation today, I have a feeling that they are very much under a fast dictatorship, something has to be done, and that, above all, they draw material from the affair texts, flat-rate visions, unilateral interpretations and from a white book, which is not actually a law, is not a proposal for a national programme or a legal act, but an object that is supposed to push or stimulate the debate so that the reform can be more qualitative or even possible. The Legitimate White Paper is now condemned for seeking a path to a reform that we know cannot happen overnight - some countries have taken years and years to implement -; in short, it is looking for grounds, and now it is on a sad bench. And what kind of discussion is a very short memory given what my colleague Merlo was talking about earlier when memories disappear 12 years ago. In his debate, Mr Brenčič stressed that, in a comparable way, this reform, which is supposed to run out of time, would have been completed or implemented by another minister in the new mandate, provided that this reform, which is awaiting another minister, would certainly not suck and, of course, the presumption of its dispute would not have been the subject of an intervention proposal. We could also stop at very open issues and perhaps also very exposed today to the transfer of property or the sale of property from the former thorny hospital or premises in Skytičnik and stress that there are many different forms of transfer that this country carries out on a legal basis in different ways, not only payable but also unpaid. In this context, I can mention all those, I will not say gifted, but those actions of Minister of Defence, Grisold, who passed on, of course, through the legal basis, a large army to the state, or the state to the congregation. If I am talking only about Illyrian Bistrica, Škofja Loki, Lendava and what else I might mention, I am not talking about the free transfer of state property, municipal property to the country that happened in Maribor and Nova Gorica, when the state did not actually give the municipality that invested in this property nothing. But there, too, was the legal basis and, in fact, Minister Keber had it in his transfer or in this exchange. But I think that the original sin, which the signatories of the interpolation do not cite, does not pass away the opportunity not to impose it, is already in 2000, at the very beginning of the Minister's mandate. In fact, I think to a large extent the minister's profile also applies to himself. At that time, we received a minister who was literate, articulated, loud, active and in many ways was also at odds, and it is also the opposite of the previous sleepy years. He came from health circles, did not smell by bureaucratic methods and by narrow thoughts. First of all, he didn't push the problems into a corner. He pulled them out of it. If he were a diplomat who is only for survival, he would not open up or allow himself to open up to the difficult and vulnerable of every citizen. After all, health is the one that is at the top of almost every individual’s values and thus has some sort of shield of inviolability. But it would be the wrong statement if I said that Minister Keber was protecting this shield or, say, this aura, in health care, as far as anyone thinks today. Reverse. When he was hoping to talk about reforms, about shortcomings, and about the inconsistencies of our health care, he was doing the opposite. I can see that this shield, if I call it that, just wanted to strengthen and health care in general. Certainly it was not a cosmetic change when he first renamed the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Health, which I have already talked about in this space, because the renaming took place because the minister also placed at a symbolic level in the center his concern about the greatest human occupation, our own fear of losing physical and mental integrity, the fear of becoming ineffective, inefficient, unhealthy, in short sick. The health system is not optimal. Partly because he has not yet survived the transition and the extent to which social welfare can be maintained at the level established, and to what extent we cannot avoid what some other countries have encountered and have gone into a way of privatising it. But it is also partly because the public service is very difficult to change or control, partly because the needs are increasing, the age age is getting longer, the way of life is changing and so on and so on. But to be effective, it confirms my day today, given that I spent half a day in a clinic where, as usual, I was either at a clinical center or at a clinic or where my loved ones received all the most effective and active attention. But if I go back to my original sin. The opposition or the signatories of the interpolation have tried, I will say, to discredit, if I make some grave remarks, the ministry had already issued a referendum on the law on the treatment of infertility and the procedures for fertilisation by zbiomedical aid. What was behind this referendum may not be a questionable question today, but rather a search for answers. I just think it was already a conflict of values, a conflict of heart on the one hand and liberal views on the other, a conflict of human rights limitation on the one hand and the application of free decisions on the other. It was, in fact, what was at the value level, I stress, at the value level, that all four years went on, not only did it continue to scale. On the one hand, civilisational position, liberal respect for rights and human dignity and higher-a-vis denial of the rights of minority groups, on the other hand. In this respect, following the OBMP referendum, other related initiatives that promoted principles, a pardon that challenged the principles of fairness, and also declined because they were the hardest to achieve or, in fact, the easiest to achieve in some way, the manipulative effects in the public opinion. I will not stop at what has been done since 2000 and what has not been done in the case of OBMP, which was not done before 2001 and 2000 when everything since 1994 has not been regulated and there have been no sexual cell donation procedures, not to mention the many couples who have been waiting for these procedures and not to talk about unregulated donor banks. I will leave this to the other writings, which will most likely follow the analysis of the then, as I say, non-civilisational decisions of the minority of Slovenians, and summarize my thinking only with one conclusion which touches the other's attention to the minister, if you've often made it clear that he's spending money promoting health promotion or building on prevention and public awareness. Promotional posters, advertising actions to promote recreation, healthy diet, etc. In short, all protection of the public interest in health protection is often perceived as cosmetics and not as a way that, as a result, not only reduces the use of health care investments, but also increases the quality of living. Regarding the standardization of advertising procedures within tobacco products that have received many criticisms, the Minister invents when he even standardises typography of letters or the size of typography on individual packagings. It was not until the audience realized that the blame was going elsewhere, it said, to Europe, but not to Minister Kebra. But with this case, and in fact, if I conclude, I just want to say that certain values that are self-evident or recognised as positive in the world are immediately perceived as unnecessary in terms of prevention. And so needlessly do those who do not experience the world and who do not recognize and see other practices, where it is possible to say that health is the only wealth of man, perceive substantially more literally than we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u89	Although there is still a considerable amount of time until the debate is over, according to the reports, but I would like to point out that we will vote as soon as the last speaker has finished his thought. So there would be no misunderstandings; sometimes we agree to postpone the vote first; this time there is no agreement - we will vote as soon as the Minister is expected to finish his or her vote. Let's move on. My colleague onion is not in the hall, so is my colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! When I read the interpolation, I tried to get out of the text what was actually what you read to Kebra as minister. I have found that, in the opinion of the interpolation investors, it is incapacitated that it does not perform its work as a minister or harms and violates the laws. In public, as well as in Parliament, you point out that with the idea of solidarity and justice in health reform, utopian socialist, in fact, is a deadlocked member of the previous regime, Dr. Bayuk said today that he is working under the 'Cardelian principle'. It is clear, on the basis of what has been said, that the purpose of interpretation is precisely to denounce, at a personal and ideological level, a minister who seeks to make far-reaching changes in the health system in recent decades, the changes that benefit the citizens and them, whether you are right or wrong, the citizens and the citizens, but unfortunately, have stumbled upon the ingrained habits and, above all, the personal and private interests of the strong groups that rule in health and which you are also alerting. To begin with the incompetence of Minister Kebra, we cannot report. He was the youngest professor of the most important clinical subject in medical school, with one of the most extensive scientific bibliography, with the highest professional and scientific titles, and was proposed twice as a member of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts ten years ago. At the time of the targeted education campaign, the project was resisted and, at the level of all the countries concerned, was able to update a medical study which, by the way, had not changed significantly since its reform 20 years ago. He has achieved that the University of Ljubljana has adopted demanding and transparent indicators for academic progress that are still being used today, both young and without a position in the governing structure of the university. As the expert director of the clinical centre, you are aware of this, with organizational changes and changes in funding, which were already the beginning of today's health reform, it has achieved billions of savings. So, probably incompetences, as you say in interpretation, the minister really can't be seen. We have heard a lot about Dr. Kebra’s work today, positive, negative hints, but we must also look into the face. On the basis of the Minister's efforts, we can see that all health indicators in the country are improving. Despite almost unchanged financial resources, there has been a significant increase in the number of treatments where waiting periods are highest. During his term of office, he has invested most in healthcare institutions - a colleague has previously served with data. In the field of public health, his fight against sickness and social evil, brought by alcohol and smoking, is well - known to all. Members who made fun of his "alcoholic law" felt that it was worth supporting if only one life was saved with him. Last year - the minister said today - because of alcohol on Slovenian roads, it went down for the first time less than in previous years - 11% less. Yes, as you can see, Minister Keber is unpopular in his work as a doctor. Because, as he had said before, before becoming a minister, he was talking about corruption in health care; because it was avoided by suppliers; because he publicly condemned safari in Kenya, and they told him that he did not know about modern business receptions; because he had achieved a reduction in the price of medicines, and he had to influence the prescription habits of doctors, and we all know how difficult it is to change habits or maybe because he had made professional mistakes. Because the mega-Romanian project of the pediatric clinic rationalized and thus led him to a stage where it could be achieved and today he explained it exactly. Maybe because he was defending public finances in his sentence. You know exactly that the demands of doctors were huge billions, and we all know that they could only be taken by patients. Today's demands for more than 30% of the increase in medical wages are accompanied by new threats to sentences. Whose side could the Minister of Health be on if he's a minister for all citizens? You informed Kebra that he was a member of the previous regime. Perhaps it is because the thorny hospital you are dealing with today, where the director was considered a "fark hospital", because there were treatments for church dignitaries and, contrary to the recommendations of the regime at that time, the nuns. Is it because there was one of the few leading people in health care who in the previous country refused membership in relation to Communists? Among the opponents of his changes we find in both countries often the same people, only that they changed political color in the meantime and started to name in the new country of Kebra the same as you, 'Red Director'. Is it because, perhaps, of the opposition, that Mr. Janez Janša is a member of the College of the Human Rights Committee - I apologize because Minister Janez Janša, as a member of the College of the Human Rights Committee and as his doctor, was protecting him from the then regime in his hospital with a diagnosis of a heart patient and a public statement of torture of prisoners? Some of the rare romantics wondered until the last time, in fact they believed that Mr Janša would not add his signature to the interpretation against his doctor, who put his position and security at stake in dangerous times to defend him. After all, we could have known that this would not be the case, and Mr Janša's signature was not needed because there were enough signatures without his signature. At the time of the proposal for health reform, the depraved economist insulted Minister Kebra and all those who feel similarly, with the "laki bottom" - translated: we suck up to the poor. This says the most about the author of this label, that without social sense, he is carefree of those who are completely at the bottom of the social ladder, not by their own fault. We hear similar markings today from the opposition. However, honourable Members and Members - you have given up somewhere in fact already today, the proposed interpretation - health reform is intended for all of us, so that we can get to good doctors more quickly so that we do not wait too long for operations and other services and that health money will be spent effectively. And so that those who earn less will give less and more to health care. Mr. Bayuk, it's not marketable, but it's fair. Reform therefore brings more solidarity and fairness, better accessibility and equal accessibility to all who have the same needs, but health does not choose. This reform is also a social reform, which is why it is so viciously attacked by those who have removed the social name from their client's name. Ladies and gentlemen, we will defend the reform and we will vote against the interpretation because, unfortunately, this is a bad interpretation, and especially because it is an interpretation against a minister who works for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. My friend Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to admit that I'm a little embarrassed because I thought that after 35 years of medical work, I would be able to respond to some of the claims that I've heard here today, but we have very little time, so I'm going to point out something that hasn't been told today. Well, days ago, I was writing after the ISIS magazine, this is the publication of the Slovenian Medical Chamber, namely the residence paper of Slovenian doctors. And I saw an article published in May 2001 by a fellow doctor and a fellow Member in this magazine. He described his question to Minister Kebra regarding the change in the financing of basic health care. Prior to 2001, doctors of basic health care were paid by the number of checks carried out. It is clear that this caused the "stretching" of the examinations, an individual doctor had to carry out them up to 50 per day if he wanted to receive all the funds from the funding. In 2001 Minister Keber introduced financing by head, which is corrected by preventive programmes implemented and excessive travel to the secondary level. Our colleague objected to the new model of funding and rhetorically asked himself or argued that if he knew himself after the end of his term of office, politics such as that of Minister Keber would have a clairvoyant form of basic health care at the end of his term of office. Today, a few months before the end of the term, we are happy to find out and inform our colleague that he was wrong in his predictions at the time. The likeness of basic health care in our country is far from a slaughterhouse. If I now had the image that I should have had long ago, the former Minister, with his fellow Members, was not a doctor, could not design. With the help of the Ministry of Public Health, a programme of preventive activities was launched through a wide-ranging door. These are programmes that represent, by all established professional and scientific criteria, the most appropriate way to identify individuals most at risk, such as heart disease, vascular disease and other chronic diseases. The programme takes place in the whole country. In 2002 alone, 85,000 preventive checks were carried out under the national programme for primary prevention of heart disease and cardiovascular disease. Health care is carried out in health care homes, which is organised in different types of workshops and is carried out in high-risk health care centres identified by doctors in preventive examinations. In schools to promote health and prevent chronic infectious diseases, more than 300 teachers have been trained in the field of health promotion. With their help, local prevention groups were formed in all Slovenian regions. Members of these groups have carried out many preventive activities in terms of promoting health and preventing chronic infectious diseases and have proven to be in the field of mutual cooperation and integration with all other structures of social life that can have a positive impact on human health. Workshops are held in health homes for those who have difficulty changing their behavioral style into a healthy behavioral style. More than 2,500 such workshops were organised in 2002 and 2003. International experts also confirm the correctness of such an approach to basic health care. I'm glad our colleague made a grave mistake in his predictions. Just as he and his colleagues seem to be wrong in all the points that we have heard today in the context of interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Now he has the word of a fellow Viceroy who is not. Then there's a buddy of mine who's not here. A fellow Fabian who's gone. My friend Kavtičnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Because I can see that some of my colleagues are out of time, I'm just gonna start. Well, hello, Mr. Secretary, with the team! The minister, Dr. Keber, has shown upright posture many times, and this attitude shows today. The reform of the health system, which was initiated by Professor Keber and his team just less than four years ago, is based on the knowledge that man, a potential patient, is key in the health system and that all healthcare organisations need to adapt to his needs. Professor Dr. Keber has embarked on a very demanding and long-term project. In the first place, he put human beings, Slovenes and Slovenes with all their needs and habits. The Slovenians and Slovenes have made it quite easy to know that life and health are not eternally good and that the quality of their health and life is primarily the responsibility of everyone. In order to maintain health and improve the quality of life, many of us will have to change certain habits and lifestyles. With the introduction of health reform, Dr. Keber has also intervened in a medical organization where a doctor will also have to change certain habits and the traditional thinking of some that the doctor is more important than the patient. We didn't have any problems in our health care yesterday. They started long before Minister Kebra came to the Ministry. The medical system, which is intended to help people to health, has been seriously ill years ago. The wounds of our health range back many years. The approach of Dr. Kebra's predecessors allowed problems and irregularities to remain carefully hidden from the public's eyes. The burden of changing the health system was that the minister, Professor Dr. Keber, took over and deliberately exposed himself to all the criticisms and attacks. We must congratulate him for his courage. Of course, we cannot only commend the work of the Minister for his courage in his decisions, but we must also mention the many positive innovations and achievements that his mandate has brought. As a schoolboy and an athlete, I will focus mainly on public health or on ensuring the conditions for achieving the highest level of health for all. This mandate has increased cooperation with governmental and non-governmental organisations, such as programme managers and projects in the field of protection and health promotion at local levels, which is important as non-governmental organisations are particularly close to people, are flexible and address people in a familiar language. In this mandate, the Ministry of Health has successfully implemented commitments from the national programme, many projects and promotions of health through movement and healthy nutrition and the fabrication of social ties such as "living healthy" have come to life in all Slovenian regions and people have already taken them for their own. The Ministry, together with its partners, has also drawn up a proposal for a national strategy for the promotion of motor, sports or physical activities for health. Without a doubt, however, by adopting a law on the limitation of alcohol consumption and understanding the problem of excessive alcohol consumption, we have become among the advanced European countries which place the public interest in health protection ahead of the narrow economic interest. In this context, it is also important to mention the continuation of the already established tobacco policy, which puts us at the side of European countries, with problems and the silent rejection of those measures by those who are seriously affected by changes in habits and values. He thus pointed out our social problem, and I can say with full responsibility that these changes in young people did not run into major discontents and disapprovals; on the contrary, many young people have welcomed the amendment of the alcohol restriction law. There was more dissatisfaction among the older population. All of this confirms the thesis that certain habits that we have acquired over the years are more difficult to break than to accept new ones. Public interest in health protection is vital to Slovenia, as for our community, human loss is a particularly great loss, even more so if it is a young adult. As soon as we get to know this, it will be easier to overcome the obstacles that occur when certain health-related harmful habits change. Respectful parents ’ habits and lifestyle are important for children in designing a valuable system. At the time of growing up, children are the brightest stars of the guides their fears. Let us therefore follow the simple principle: do not say how to live, I look at you, I observe you, and I imitate you. In this mandate, the Ministry has encouraged a number of activities and projects that promote healthy lifestyles that contribute significantly to improving the health and quality of life of citizens. All these projects are based on people recognizing new values and starting to change those that are reliably harmful to health. So they bring about a change of mind, and this is a process whose results are not and cannot be visible until tomorrow. Other ministries will also have to join these changes through concrete programmes and, of course, Members will also have to start believing them. It is not clear to me that the untrustworthy person against the Minister of Health, Prof. Kebru, has just been invested by those who should support the Minister's efforts loudly and with approval, as this reform puts the person, citizen and citizen at the heart of the health system and the values that the interpellation or non-trusters like to refer to in public. For these reasons, I will continue to support Minister Kebra, both at the professional level, because of his efforts to implement new, healthy values into our society, as well as at the personal level, because of his courage to undertake such a major project as the reform of the health system, where he builds on the advantages that people carry within us and we have not yet fully exploited them. Your Honor, take your time and understand the Minister and the Minister's message that development is possible on what we have and not on what we don't have. Once you understand it, you'll realize that you're a minister, Professor Keber, instead of an untrustworthy woman, you deserve a confession.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Now he has the word of a colleague, Dr. Brace. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Your Honor! When I listen to this debate today, and I see that as many as 20 members of the Liberal Democracy have read their speeches, I am actually pleasantly surprised at such activity; I fear that some have for the first time or for the second time in this mandate, which shows that it is a matter of some interest to defend their minister - and this is all fine and good. Of course, it is true that it is hard for a person to imagine that, for example, the opposition, which has put an interpellation and has given a whole range of reasoned conclusions that I do not make accusations, not in any single man alone, would be right. It's a typical case whenever we go on any topic. When you perform, and we tell you what we do, it always happens that the opposition is wrong in nothing. And then we have to use things like in the extreme sequence of referendum, because it's not going any other way. And then you get angry and talk about how we abuse some institutes and so on. But you forget how you use your power. If we listen to the minister, he responds to all of our findings that they are inaccurate, misleading, incomplete, and so forth. His answers also show that, of course, I am and there is something wrong, but mostly everything is fine, significantly better than before. Of course, if I add to this what the representatives of the Liberal Democracy say today, it is necessary to start preparing a space for a suitable monument in a suitable environment for thanks. However, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a big gap between the norm and the reality, a big gap between words and what is really. You're talking about things getting better in general. On the other hand, we read in the daily newspaper reports on this - and of course angry users of health services - how long the species are and how the level and extent of health services is decreasing. I don't have this statistic to prove it, but what we can all read in the media -- even Dr. Tuckati has today very statistically made this transparent -- all of this shows that it's probably as ideal as you say it is, but it's not. That, let's say the positive list is getting shorter and so the negative is getting longer, it's also a fact. And you're talking about some social stuff and you're referring to some social elements. You're talking about how well you were cared for, whether you or I don't know who was with you, in the infirmary. I'm so glad you did. However, I must tell you that the Members are probably not in line. I have had this experience several times before, when I haven't used my connections, because I don't use them anyway, because I consider this to be part of my test of how the system works - I am now primarily talking about state administration. But recently, I did have one good experience that lasted five hours. And then some doctor meets me in the hallway and tells me why you didn't call me, I'd arrange it for you. I said it took five hours and I was wondering what it would look like. He said if he called me, it'd be set at 1:00. So, please don't tell me how great it is, because you all have relationships and you can get quality services fast. People, the crowd is waiting! Now you will say, the halls, the hospitals, there are no types in the infirmary - please! And in this experience of mine a few days ago, a man told me in the hallway, and I quote, "If you don't have connections in health care, you'll be waiting if you don't die first." And you're saying everything's fine. The solution is self-payment ambulances or services. Your doctor calmly says, "We'll order you for next year, but if you come to my infirmary, you can come this afternoon." Where's the social and this great system you're talking about? In Slovenia too, a system based on money has been created: if you have money, there will be a service if not, God help you. The Minister advocates investment in his sector, in his department, while health care - you probably won't object to it - that they do shake up a number of affairs in all these years. I'm not saying that the Minister is the cause of these affairs. I'm not saying that the minister is responsible for every single thing that happens in a healthcare facility, I don't know, with inadequate use of drugs or I don't know what, ordering some operating table and so on. However, I submit that there is a part of the objective responsibility that the Minister must accept on his shoulders. And we want to talk about it. We want to talk about this, that the Ministry of Health is affording expensive projects - well, the project for €30 million has been mentioned several times today. On the other hand, there's no money for spent appliances and there are sponsors looking to help, I don't know, raise money for some rare device, we only have one, and it's broken. On the other hand, we read how doctors themselves say in the media that certain equipment does not need to be ordered at all. So you can't say that there are no extraordinary medical situations. And they're not as tiny as you're trying to show them. In today's review, our colleague Dr. Tsukati was very systematic and transparent. If you wanted to listen to him, and if you wanted to answer what he was talking about, then you should say a lot more than those songs. What does the excellence of Professor Kebra have to do with this? Who's telling him that? Nobody. None of us said that Dr. Keber was an incompetent doctor, or I don't know what. We're not letting this go. This has nothing to do with interpolation. There's not a single line about it, and you keep talking about it! But we are talking about what he is responsible for as Minister, and we want to draw attention to that. And in doing so, please tell us how this "alcoholic law" has already produced a remarkable result in the first year. 10%, or as was said, fewer deaths due to, I don't know, Mrs. Krebs before, I think she talked about it. I wrote it down. Please! This isn't serious. Those of you who are doctors in this room, you know this is nonsense. One marriage can't be in the same year. Why didn't you tell me the other case? How do dead drunk people lie in the Planica? You're not gonna tell this case! What I'm trying to tell you is that what you're reading to us, you should take a little bit into your own account. And that. The Minister is today - today you said that from artificial insemination of single women to erased is a single step. Then you teach us Members of the ruling coalition about the unnecessary interpretations, referendums and so on. You're saying we're campaigning. Yeah, but who talks here most of the time today? Or you or us? That's pretty clear. You can afford an election campaign-obvious. If only it were so clever. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u97	Peace will be welcome. Peace will be welcome in the hall! There's no need for a dispute in the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u98	Just a minute. Wait a minute! Now, I must say, obviously, it has not yet occurred to you somehow that in a democratic country, the opposition can use all the means allowed by the Constitution and the law. We are acting legally and legitimately, and you do not understand that it is the opposition's duty to point out the illegal conduct of the government, ministers - to the inappropriate conduct of the government, ministers and so on. In short, we would like to draw attention to the inappropriate behaviour of the ruling, in this case the Minister of Health. We believe that - of course, the ratio of power is that and after you have said today that the question of what will ultimately be the result or I believe that you will support it. But with this you will also support everything bad that is in Slovenian health and before you close your eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u99	Okay. I can't see my friend at the gym. Does he want a word, Comrade Lavrinz? Are you going to switch places with your partner Partic? Please, Comrade Partljič, follow you Comrade Malovre. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u100	I really wasn't in the hall, but I listened to practically all the debate, which will also be reflected in what I will say. Since it was so practical on both sides, I would just say that I think the world is completely wrong when I hear it. First, I'd like to say something that would be very close to a procedural question. For the first time today, I have heard that something good could be done if people, instead of bread, could go back to sleep with alcohol. I remember, Mr. Victory spoke for the Dolenjci, but at the same time he gave a minute of silence to General Maister. I wasn't in there. I hear you're up. That's crazy! No morbid minute of silence is given anywhere in the world on the anniversary of birth. And who can even order that here? Once Jelko Kacin, once a colleague of Jelinčič. It's just one of the things that shows me that everything is actually going wrong here. Dr. Keber patiently, accurately and always with arguments - perhaps not always the right arguments - answers questions from the Members, answers here today, but here he is obviously self-promotion and self-praising and uses himself to perform himself. Secondly, one of the first times I never gave him my hand has aroused my interest when I read his, I could say, essays on the mistakes of Slovenian health, that is, the system, in the newspaper Del about a year before he became an MP. This is now evident when one of the few ministers who can even write something of such quality and is even literate, I mean in the form of an essay. And this today is considered an opportunity for ridicule, even giving someone a professor when I see how great a man is his former student, Mr. Sponik, and he says, "Keber taught me." But you know, anyone who says it's something bad from Kebra, that he's done it that way. I'm gonna take a look at it, because I was checking it out when I was listening. The wrong world is that some who for decades have been inventing, having an affair for an affair, now report to Kebra, if he finds any irregularities, point out that he is the one who is a master of affairs in the country. For the first time, he doesn't do them, the press does them, and he actually warned about things that I think he was obliged to point out. A man who, as we see from politics, is a great expert and ambitious, we recognize his ambition. We also had health ministers, I don't want to be offensive to anyone, because I respected them, who certainly weren't that ambitious. What a place for man to be ambitious if not when he is a minister! And if I say so, at the end: the wrong world is also that our coalition party, who always joins our government, always leaves us behind before the elections and exits, once with Mr Bajuk sings: How many drops for so many years, will now support us in the name of the higher goals of this kebor interpolation. In short, if I'm listening to today, I think the world is wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u101	Just one short piece of information because you set it up as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u102	I'm sorry. Those who spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u103	I'm asking for peace. Just one brief explanation, I would like to say that today the SDS Group has properly sent a written initiative during the meeting to commemorate General Maistre's 130th anniversary. I said, unfortunately, this initiative may have come too late. We all share an opinion on its great importance, and then colleague Jelinčič took the initiative in giving this initiative, and I heard that Parliament responded. Of course, I've already said that without an agreement that will not be at some informal council or college, let's not embarrass each other with such individual initiatives. This may be a matter of agreement, the symbolic gestures of Parliament are important, but this must be a matter of agreement. So I think that's one experience to go on. My friend Malovre. No, no, no. Bad boy's colleague. No, no, no. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u104	I'll be very brief. As a first case, no Member requiring the intervention of Minister Kebra has made a single mention of the White Paper in that key document drawn up by the Ministry of Health at the head of Kebra. That's the first thing. The second thing is that those of us who were in this Parliament from the very beginning remember that we had four ministers of health, Voljč, Jereb, Bručan and Kebra including Kebra. In fact, in some ways it is not right to mention these first three, because the only Keber has laid solid foundations and a highly innovative attitude towards health based on expertise and solidarity. That'll be all.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u105	We continue the debate. A friend of Cimperman's? [[No, no, ……]] A colleague of Maynik's? Please have your word, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you very much. In many of today's debates, the interpellation's proponents have given me the impression that the debaters are talking about everything else, only concern for people. However, the Ministry of Health and the Minister are at the forefront of the first concern. It is clear to the Minister of Health that he has done nothing for the most deprived groups of the population and for reducing health differences and that he has no social sense for the most socially disadvantaged social group. I would like to draw attention to what the Minister himself has already said, the Mura project. Also, because of such projects, which, although they tend to be lost in the so-called major projects brought about by health reform, I will not support interpellations against the minister. The Mura project has paved the way for all people in Slovenia to have equal conditions, equal health care and equal status. That's why I'm not going to support the interpolation in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Colleague Petan? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. When we heard Minister Kebra's statement at the beginning of this meeting, he spoke for about 25 minutes about the achievements of the Ministry of Health. There's not a word in interpretation about it. Interpellation is not made due to achievements in this mandate at the Ministry of Health, but because of illegality and errors. Surely something good has been done in his department in this mandate. There were some moves, there were some ideas, some good, some bad, and there were achievements. And once again, interpellation is not filed because of what Minister Keber was talking about here for 25 minutes. Under the Constitution and law, interpellation shall be filed for suspicion of violation of the Constitution and the laws. And that's why this interpolation is being filed. In these discussions, which they read mainly as rapporteurs of government parties, with the exception of one, talked about how the Minister was good, what he did was good, and there were very few arguments and answers to the impressions recorded in the interpretation. In his performance, too, after 25 minutes of listing the achievements, the minister simply avoided certain matters. He was very long and loud, but in his responses to the allegations of illegal conduct, of reckless spending of money, he was very unconvincing or he said nothing, not even in any later reports. There is no excuse for a financial transaction with some explanation that this is happening elsewhere, that we were not harmed, that there were poor conditions in this building, that it would have to be undermined and so on, because if this were true, then we would have had one valuation report, there would be no differences, it would not be necessary when someone tried to manipulate themselves just to make sure that the numbers came together formally. And even the inspection of this same government, the budget inspection found that the ministry was illegal in the premises of Ljubljana's Skytičnik. They don't have a contract, they don't pay rent, they don't pay rent. If someone moves in illegally, it's a crime. This was done by a group of Molotovs and indeed won some award for reaching the year in the newspaper Delo, but I do not know if it is appropriate for the state authority to imitate such conduct. As far as the health system's concerned, we didn't evaluate it in interpretation. We have not submitted the interpretations to the system, which is here in the country of health care, but to the minister. This system, which we have, is relatively good on professional pay. The relationship to patients is solid. Most of those who work in the profession are committed to their profession, access to this good is relative, sometimes better, sometimes worse, waiting types are a problem. One of the sights that has been and to which, of course, is not a satisfactory response, is some artificial attempt to reduce these waiting times. Here, in the meantime, when this interpolation was filed, and when this was discussed, there were a lot of comments, including complaints from people who say, waiting types were reduced so that when you get a guide for a specialist and call there to order you, they say we can only order you in two months, specifically in Murski Sobota. It's only two months before someone gets on the list, and then statistics on the waiting line begin. In this way, of course, it is possible to reduce waiting species. The key health problem is not what doctors or responsible doctors are responsible for, but what management is responsible for. It's an economics issue, an organization. Here are large reserves, large reserves with some Flossules on how the ministry has been working towards a more social system, on how we will in some ways, with virtually less resources, then less pay for these contributions, etc., is mainly covered in the ministry itself by actual policy, well, we could say, social, but mostly to those who already have pockets full. A very specific case, which the Minister practically avoided in his response, was a project financed by the funds of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In 2000, Drnovskov's government sent a law on the ratification of an international loan agreement to the National Assembly, and we leased a loan of EUR 9 million to finance a development project for the implementation of the healthcare system. The agreement was signed on 18 April 2000 for a total of EUR 9 million. The project is expected to have four parts - health policy support, health information standards, the introduction of health information systems, project management and professional support. The whole project is due to be completed on 31 December 2003, according to a day that has already passed. Of these four sets, some were partially realized from the first and perhaps from the second, but a good part of the money was already spent. By the way, we will start paying off the loan on 15 May next year, and we and those who start paying taxes will be paying it by 2014. What are we gonna pay for? We'll pay for products that are not, some advice that is practical, then I'll tell you how this work was described, where it's obviously a tactic, how to use this credit to finance God knows what. According to the report, which was issued in 31.12.2002, by the end of December 2002, a million 807 thousand 857 euros had been paid for these consultations at 14 different addresses. This is about the amount that the minister received for selling the thorny hospital, over 500 million. The amounts paid to certain companies and individuals are astronomical and the products are totally unacceptable, such as the US company paid 70,000 euros. There are no results, so the contract was terminated later, of course the money was not returned, they advised on how to inform the system, but none of it. Then €147,108 was earmarked for advice for a health sector specialisation in the Netherlands. Surely we also have experts in Slovenia who would like to give this money, I think we have very good advice on this project. EUR 377.523 was paid to the Slovenian company Imit for its advice. For further advice, €75,281 was paid to a German company. Then the smaller sums were paid for counseling also to people working in the public administration or working and, in my opinion, should carry out this advice within their responsibilities. For example, the director of the then Office of Statisticians Tomaž Banovac, Milan M. Cvikl, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and some others, for whom I do not know what functions they had. In Australia, 630,000 euros were paid for advice. Infonet in Slovenia was paid EUR 218.000. Epos in Germany €112,000. And to Gray Berry's natural persons in Canada, a contract was concluded with him for $100,000, which has been paid 40,000 euros so far, until that date. At these 14 addresses and some, because some items have been broken down, they were paid by the end of 2002 in two years of implementation of this project during Mr Kebra's ministerial period of EUR 807 000 857. When some of these largest consultants, who received the largest millions, together, were asked what their product was, over 500 million tolars for some kind of advice, the answers were as follows. When they are Aleksandra Novakovic, who is director of the Impita [[This is one consulting firm that has a few employees]] , asked what he was doing, he said, "It's essentially business secrecy, but we're doing a project office, it's kind of a hub where different projects are being run. These projects are usually based on certain strategic guidelines and plans, the definition of the project office is defined by projects." Grab what if you can. That was, by the way, published in the Journal of Work days ago. Then they asked the director of the Information Technology Centre, who also pulled or drew the centre out of millions, and what she did said was, "CIT deals with the project tasks set out by the head of the Ministry project, and we keep an accurate record of what we are doing." The further question of what this product is was about the same answer: the definition of the project office is defined by the project. Good advice, I must say. And it's cheap. Well, it goes on. At work we found that Aleksander Novakovič is one of the founders of the Maribor CIT, according to this other company, it is a connected person, and at the same address where the Imit is located, Novakovic is another director of the Impita. In the same seat is the head office of PMI Chapter Slovenia, the Slovenian branch of the US project management of the Institute. In addition to Impita’s associates, the Director of the Government’s Information Centre Marin Silič is also sitting in this company. This is the director who is eternal. Criminal charges have been filed against him. None of this, he's still the director or now v.d. Director. He seems to be giving good advice here, too. She is also a member of Špela Urh Popovic, director of Noema, who also made contracts with Certeks Group, this is a company in America, and Impitum. Urh Popoviceva was dismissed as head of this project in March 2002. But we are not aware that any investigation would have been made to file any complaints that anything in this regard would have been wrong. At the Ministry of Health until the end of 2002, I do not know, more than 500 million tolls have been spent on some sort of counselling, from which taxpayers and users of health services have so far had absolutely nothing. The project, if not the other, is very late because it should be completed in the last December of last year under this international contract, with which we have leased a loan that we will start paying off the second year and will pay it off with interest. And the money runs out on, I'll say, such strange addresses that you have to seriously ask here if there's something very wrong here. With this strong talk of how the Minister was supported because he is social, and with this strong concern for social, and with this strong concern about what a party has on behalf, I ask my colleagues from the government coalition and the minister whether these 14 have been paid in hundreds of millions for various social action counselling. Who did you help with your social sense? Were those people in trouble, too? Mainly connected persons, consulting companies with a few employees associated with people from government services, all intertwined with each other. The same people write a contract, the same people do it. Even problems were obvious because they were hard to charge or hard to show for working days and hours, so it came one day after these calculations, on one day counseling for the payment of one person as much as many people in this country deserve in one month. That's what an hour's worth. The thing would be less problematic if we had a complete project here, if this contract were fulfilled, if we said, because of the 500, 600 million that taxpayers will still pay for counselling, we'd have a better health system, we'd be cheaper, we'd save billions. None of this can be said today. The only thing to say is that some have heavily filled their pockets with euro at the expense of the loan we have rented at the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which we will pay back. That's the only thing you can say right now. I ask the Minister, as well as all colleagues and colleagues from the government coalition, who have said so much about social affairs, whether there are huge salaries in some health institutions, here is a list published in one of the daily newspapers. What is mapped yellow is health establishments where wages exceed 1 million and some also 2 million tolars. I believe that the system, Mr Minister, that you are leading to these people is very social, I don't know if that's the right word, maybe I could say liberal, and I don't know if that's the right word, because if that were the wages on the market, they weren't. Well, that's what your definition of sociale is. The market must not come to a place where some dedicated salaries could be reduced as a result, for the word'social', it is hidden that many who certainly do not deserve it in public institutions, because in any case there should not be individual contracts for managers, if the government were able to do so long ago and end it, pay so high. So much for social, social and so on. Again, I repeat, the interpolation is not made because of what the Minister listed for the first 25 minutes, but because of such things, because it is not known where millions went, hundreds of millions of millions of millions for advice, for projects that should be completed, and they are still not, and because we have not received any satisfactory answers from the minister, hand to heart.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. My friend Marshich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Since there's little time left, I'd just say the following. It has been said that interpellation is against the minister, not against the system. Those who were not here in the hall did not hear that the vast majority of the opposition colleagues were actually talking about everything else today, rather than the content of the interpretation. And it is clear that the Minister and this party have used arguments that have defended the system and said that there is only so much wrong in this system as the opposition is trying to say. I'm sorry, but I'm waving paper just like that, and with the articles, and I don't know where, and I have to say it doesn't push me anymore, and it doesn't hurt me. I believe that it will ever happen again that because of an article being shown here, it will then be a public apology, or when he has actually announced a very rude statement at the expense of a ruling party or ruling party, then he owes in fact some kind of apology. I believe it will also be necessary in the future. I won't support interpolation on my own. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you all why something good or much good has been done in the area of health care in the region where I come from. And I'll say it another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Although there are some other colleagues on my list, the time of the parliamentary groups has passed. That way you'll have two more words, the motioner and the minister. First I ask my colleague Tsukati, then my colleague Drobnic. Do any of you want a word? Then the Minister will have his word as well. Mag. A little something, please. Then, as I have already foretold, we will move on to decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u112	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have heard presentations, i.e. arguments for interpretation, we have also heard the Minister's replies to our arguments, to our proposals. That way, we can create our own opinions. Mr Minister, once again it must be pointed out that you did not reply to the arguments correctly, you were bending and citing incorrect data, quoting laws which are of course not relevant to the argument. I'll tell you this further. It seems as if the problems of selling the thorny hospital were not happening as if nothing was happening in the sky, everything was fine and good. Clearly, it was a sale without a public invitation to tender, that is certainly a fact that you did not reject it. No invitation to tender for infectious waste has been issued either. You claim that an invitation to tender was made in 1995, but that does not mean anything. You're just supposed to do it after the contract's over. You didn't answer that, you didn't, and that means you broke the rules. Our interpolation is not focused on what the growth in life was during your ministry and has even increased. This has nothing to do with interpolation, nor does it have cancer stains. By the same logic, you could say that you're responsible for reducing fertility in the last, I don't know, two, three years. We may be able to contribute to greater fertility in one way or another, but we will not blame you for this and it is not subject to interpretation. The subject of interpolation is also not all that you, colleagues and colleagues in the Members' groups of the United List, Liberal Democracy and also DeSUS have talked about the health system how well it works. That's not the subject of interpolation. You may have made an unproductive election campaign, but people understood what you were doing. The subject of interpretation is a violation of the laws and regulations. It's also in the constitution, and that's how we addressed it, and that's what we've been sticking to. You've actually wasted time talking about how well the system works. The system works as understood by people, ordinary people. Just before, I got some mail that all the complications they have with direct healthcare, how to get into surgery, and I don't know what else. It's a view of the health system, but it's not an interpolation. This is the subject of an evaluation of the work of the Minister after the expiry of the mandate, subject to an assessment of the functioning of this Government. However, the subject of interpretation is violations of laws and constitutions, as it also states in the Constitution. Once again, the regulation on terms of sale and exchange of state property has been violated; you have not rejected this. The Government's plan for the sale and replacement of property of the Republic of Slovenia, the management of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, was also violated. Mr Merlo pointed out that the clinical center is not the owner of the premises in Skytičnik. Then why is Dr. Rodet, who was the director of the clinical center, on the contract? Why did he appear in this function? Again, it should be noted that you have not rejected our evidence of investment maintenance or renovation in Skytičnik. We should get a building permit. This is in accordance with the building law. You've made, so you've had the wrong document proven, because such an intervention requires a building permit. With the help of the seller, this was the city of Ljubljana, you bypassed the Single Methodology Regulation for the production of public procurement programmes. You were in violation of the building law. The question is whether you have complied with all the construction standards that all taxpayers have to comply with. We don't know what you were doing. It could have happened just like it did with that building where a craftsman also knocked down the inner walls. Something like this could have happened. As you know, the skyscraper is an extremely complicated building. It was one of the most famous buildings in Europe at the time it was being built. I can also point out that at the time when you were an expert director at the clinical centre, you assigned a negative result of the operation of the clinical centre on the basis of your function at the time of the distribution of the property or of these legal persons between the field psychiatry and Golnik. The judgment in court found that you were misdirected and that then the clinical centre had to pay 350 million tolars of interest after the court’s decision. Similarly, the sale of SKB shares, because they were not adequately valued after distribution, the psychiatry filed an action and received it, so the clinical centre had to pay the psychiatric hospital Polje an additional 53 million tolar. These are the things you've done before you're in a ministerial position, but it's connected to what's happening at the clinical center. You indicate at the beginning how much investment you have brought. During your ministry, you will have to tell how many investments you have started or set up as required by law and how many other ministers have started. All that was done was started in the time of other governments. During this time, however, the bill has proved to be a huge financial hole that will be difficult to resolve, and in particular not with such a health reform as you have indicated, where you exclude private funds, where you count everything on state resources, you remove a private health insurance portfolio, which is clearly contrary to the Constitution. You have therefore indicated a preliminary right in the case of the public interest of Ljubljana. I'm stressing again. Pre-primary rights, in the event of a genuine public interest, are not applicable in the case of protected dwellings because protected dwellings do not fall within the scope of public services, public infrastructure and so on. On this basis, it could also be due to public interest, public service, or similar public infrastructure, and also to the exercise of pre-emptive or pre-emptive rights. In this case, it was a market project and you should therefore also make a call. Please note that you then bleached something in these rooms and installed furniture for 23 million tolars. As far as you can tell, this social sense. I don't know, you probably had a social sense of yourself here, or the ministry, if you designed bleaching and furniture for 23 million tolls of taxpayer money. The health network must be adopted by law not only to be presented by you in the National Assembly. It must be adopted, including by law or by law. The implementation of Article 25 of the Health and Health Insurance Act relating to the categories mentioned above, 3 most important, over 75 years of age, those who benefit from health services, i.e. those who are very attached to these services, and those who are among the socially disadvantaged. You've had the opportunity to handle this under the law. You didn't do it, it was your personal opinion, but you actually showed your social sense. Now, as far as the valuation goes, we're going to take that valuation that you mentioned again. In fact, the valuations were made by three or one valuations and two additions. The evaluation report on Stefano 1 was carried out by a judicial expert, an appreciater for the construction profession, which is also registered. This was estimated at over 162 million tolars. Let me tell you that what you mentioned, Mr. Pavlicič, whom you claim to be a sworn appreciater, assessed this property at 148 million tolars as a transport value, with what we have already told you about the square of these premises, once 487, once 461, once 377. Of course, you couldn't exactly say and write the contract because you didn't have a proper statement from the land book because you were working without it. That's what we've explained to you in the interpellation. In addition to the high costs of this reform, the White Paper and the participation of various experts in one way or another. You've spent and spent a lot of money on something we can't say it's a product. This was solely for imaginary advice that did not produce any results, except for the celebration of the tax box. At the same time, I would ask you how much you pay rent for rooms in Prague 10 for Health Sector Management Project, this is a management project of the healthcare system, and what this means in terms of costs. For the end of the reform, if we've touched it. In the New Slovenia Group, we oppose the abolition of pediatricians and gynaecologists at the primary level. You're going to have to explain to us and the others why civil society just represented this. We know who was behind this civil society at the time, who were the agents of this and why it was triggered. Given that we did not have any proposals, I can comfort you that we have presented an alternative to this reform on 45 pages. It was also presented to the media. And this White Paper, or our alternative approach to reform, will also be presented to the general public, on several occasions, that our citizens and citizens will have an overview of how things need to be done without paying 300 million tolls of tax money for a bad product. Regarding the pediatric clinic - still alone, like it is, with a building pit. The promise does work, but, Mr Minister, it may be in another term, under another minister. Let me finish. Citizens and citizens have had the opportunity to learn the arguments for interpolation, not only at today's presentation, but also through a media presentation of everything that has happened. Citizens and citizens have the opportunity to meet with the health system every day. That's what they came up with. And on the basis of all of this, I can conclude that you did not respond to the proposals or arguments and the presentation of the interpretation with arguments, you did not respond with the documents, with the formal documents. You have not shown any of this, so your argument is not appropriate. That is why we invite respectable colleagues and colleagues to support the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u113	If I understand correctly, my colleague Tsukati wishes to complete the last word of the proposaler and then he will be given the floor by the minister and then we will move on to the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! It's been a very interesting day, a very interesting conversation. Certainly, especially with regard to the very course of interpolation and defence. It is as if someone has been summoned to court, until, of course, the judgment is over, not condemned and the whole thing is going as it should be. Here the indictment was very clear, in eight points. Many documents were listed and photographs of these documents were also made available to the public. However, if they were not in this way, they were certainly listed and you could also obtain them in an official letter and so on. What was going on with the defense? Instead of getting answers to individual findings, we have received extensive expositions about all the possible good things in our health care, about all the good things that have been done in this mandate for health care, and only about the problems hardly any answer. You know, it's like if you were to come to court, or if someone came to court for this because at the crossing they knocked down a pedestrian and, of course, after the charge was read, they started talking, yeah, how good I am, I helped my niece, I arranged a garden for my mother-in-law, I helped a neighbor. This gentlemen is not an argument against the charge. The judge would laugh. Look, let me just give you two, three cases, because there's no time. First of all, this unfortunate Trnovo hospital. The Regulation on Sales Procedures, which I have here, the Government Regulation, states that in any case the sale of State property, Article 15, paragraph 3, must be defined as the method of sale. The individual sales programme should include the definition of the method of sale to be used and the reasons why the method chosen is appropriate to achieve the sales objectives. I'd like to ask the minister when this sales programme was made and how it went. Was it stated there that the sale was made without a call for tender? How has this definition to be carried out without a call for tender been established? How did it come about buying a skyscraper? The Single Methodology Regulation for the production of public procurement programmes of an investment character states that at the time of each investment purchase it is necessary because the methodology sets out certain matters, namely, in the case of a purchase value of over 100 million, and Skytičnik was almost 200 million, the investment projects shall be identified or identified by the investment project identification document and the investment programme. Article 7 states that the investment documentation shall contain all the necessary elements and calculations, so that it can be assessed comprehensively on the basis of the financial market, economic and other implications of the investment decision. I ask: When was this investment documentation made, how was it proven to be the best possible solution, 191 million for 377 square meters of old space, and was there no other option? The following page of Article 8 states that it is necessary to define the analysis of the current situation, the reason for the investment intention, the definition of investment objectives, the identification of different variants, the analysis of costs and benefits for individual variants and the choice of optimal variants. First the analysis of the situation - the reason for the purchase of the skyscraper. Not to say that it was a replacement, but the Ljubljana municipality had no money to buy Trnovo. Yeah, the seller doesn't care. This was about buying a skyscraper, investing in the skyscrapers. How has this investment been defined, the reason for it, when, the objectives of the investment, how many options have been made to meet the need for additional administrative premises of the Ministry, why this option has been chosen as the best? None of this, gentlemen! Why not? First time. Because then we'd know about the sale and the purchase. Then it would no longer be possible to prove that for Trnovo there is only one tenderer, the municipality of Ljubljana. Another time. Because shopping would no longer run at such prices under the table. That's what it was. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , no documents before, it was a clean action by the minister and the mayors. [[..]] Of course, the Minister must not conduct the procedure when buying premises for the Ministry, and this is not what the other regulations say, namely the service of the Joint Government Services. I will not insinuate what was going on, what plans might have been interrupted, because Mrs Vika Potočnik was not chosen again, and I will not talk about it, I have no evidence. It's not so much a problem that the minister did it. And it's not so much a problem that he doesn't admit it - he's not stupid, because who would admit it. The problem is that the government and all the ministers support him. That he was supported by Rob means that he supported such a policy that every minister, every civil servant, can do what he wants with state property. Whatever he wants! This is said, in a mockery of the rule of law, in mockery of all these regulations and regulations. You give the building law a violation, and you'll see what happens. We wanted answers, not bragging about what was done. Of course, it was also said, as the minister said, about the spaces in the skycraper that the government has dedicated to the skycraper ministry, so he said - the government has dedicated skycraper to the ministry, probably in use, I don't know. I want to know when the government intended this, because the purchase was done on November 22, 2002. I don't care what it is now, today with these spaces, and what the government is going to say today, all right, let's get this settled, let's get the contracts written, and the thing will be fine. I don't care. I don't care what happened until then and how the purchase took place. The problem is that for all of this, or that the government has taken the blame and all the protection. And indeed, we should probably be interpreting the government. That you are defending your minister means that you are also advocating such a procedure and thus working with state property. That, gentlemen, was just an observation of two points, the other six I won't touch, is not enough time. Finally, I would like to answer the question of why we have tackled the problem of Trno's and this interpretation. First of all, about Trnove, how it started. You got on the table, I hope, this picture. You are. This is a department of intensive internal medicine clinical center. I'd like to ask, how many beds are there? Take a good look! You need to take a good look! How many beds is it? Four. [[Back-up advertising.]] Well done, Mrs. Krebs! How much time have you spent? That could be a quiz, right? And I have to say, this department was built in 1973 at 500 square meters. Fourteen beds were in there at the time. The area on the bed was then 35 square meters, while European standards were already set at 75 square meters per bed. At the time, there were 300 to 500 receptions a year in 1973. It's mostly about, you know, 70% of the heart attack in here. And so it was in 1973 and so it was also on 29 March 2004. The difference is that receptions are more than 300 to 500 a year, but 1,400, three times more. At the same time, technology has improved greatly and there are more machines next to beds than ever before. New appliances and this is the department where he dies where he's being resuscitated, and in these, I would say, extremely stressful situations you know what it's like for a patient to be resuscitated if someone dies in a similar manner at night. Gentlemen, that was the first reason we went to explore Trnovo. Why? Because it was clear in all the documents that when Trnovo is sold, all the money will go immediately for the purposes of improving this space and these spaces. The thorn was sold in 2002, but today it is still the same. And that was the one, not just the pain of the patients, but also of the doctors who work in these situations. And when we went to ask ourselves what was going to happen to Tran, what was going to happen to this department, we ran into an unmistakable irregularity. Just like the SIB bank when you jerk off, it opens up and there's no end. What, though, was the political reason for us to continue and move on to interpolation? First, I have to say it's a pre-election move. Gentlemen, a pre-election move? What's better for the opposition than a bad minister? There's no better. If we wanted to get political points out of this, we would say, gentlemen, not support the interpretation, for sure, because then we'll have every reason until the end of the election to point to mistakes with our finger. Of course. But the problem is something else. The problem is, however, with all these questions and errors that have actually opened up, which are "rolling" according to their own words, when people saw that we were actually collecting some material that would be burdensome for the minister, they were getting thicker with evidence, they weren't insinuations, they weren't just writing. And then, of course, it was necessary, or indeed, to point out the irregularity of a policy, so that his deputy would not have ever thought of doing the same. Only four points of key problems would I point out to which we would like to point. Not the Minister, but the public and potential future candidate. First, the issue of health policy planning, for example, reforms. Planning for reform means planning it to be feasible. But it's certainly all planning, not just a one-time action, but a continuation of some effort, I'm not going to say the previous generations, I'm going to say the previous mandates. It is possible to go into reform by destroying everything and starting again. But whoever does this, who risks it and fails to complete the buildings until the end of his term, then the next one will tear it all down and start again. And we will never come to any serious solution, or we will never build a nice building called Slovenian health care. This health care needs to be restored every few years, but not by destroying everything in the back and creating something completely new. If this is the case, for the first time, damage is done, all the efforts have been eliminated, which have been in the past, secondly, some mistrust of those who have already built this health care on previous grounds, and this has happened, the rebellion of virtually all health care and so on. However, the biggest mistake of such an approach is that in fact this fundamental element of the construction of the state system, which must continue to grow from below, is being undermined. And you'll say, 'cause the minister doesn't break. What do you mean? How many requirements were laid down by the laws and national healthcare programme in 2000? Which of these demands did the minister meet? On what requirements did he continue to build? What guidance from the national programme has he taken into account, accepted them? No, he's starting over. A revolutionary approach may be possible in some situations, not his fault. It is our fault and our mandate to support such a policy and such an approach. Secondly, the smooth functioning of the system is essential when major changes are being made when large programmes are being developed. Each minister must first be a practical manager who must ensure that the system works as well as possible and in the best possible way, in the case of health care, for the benefit of patients. That's what they say. Those are the banal issues, the banal issues. It's about hospital equipment, it's about waiting periods, if you want, it's about the number of these interventions, those interventions, it's about narrow throats, where you can't practically relax waiting kind because it's a narrow throat and the like, it's about the relationship of health care to patients and vice versa. In short, the basic garage work needs to be made possible by the Minister and by defining health care by writing to people on the skin. If he pursues high ideas, including social high sounding principles and the like, he cannot and must not ignore it. This is some mistake that occurred in this mandate, as if it sounded nice and certainly the ideas that no one in principle can hurt, as if the minister were somehow seduced by the clouds and forgotten about this poor world where patients live and suffer. It's dangerous in other departments, too, and it's dangerous in education. The minister who goes to a determined ideologist or pretends to be a great ideologist and that he will solve, say, education or not know what and ignore those particular current, bloody problems of students and teachers and everything, is a bad minister. Then, of course, point three, customerism, which appears or has reached the term in this mandate. Certainly customerism in the field of public procurement, we have talked a lot about this, customerism, which is typical of this mandate and several previous mandates. In this mandate, he has grown rich to the point and has already reached some unreasonable and unacceptable limits. It's about humane clientism. Gentlemen, the policy of replacing hospital directors has been followed by the system in this mandate: first the discreditation then the liquidation. First case. The director of the autumn hospital, the gynecology affair, the disorderly gynecology, the case of the baby, the disorderly pediatrics and the director was dismissed. Of course, nothing has been fixed since then in the Autumns, gynecology is still separate, autumn cranium, and Gynecology and pediatricians in the autumn hospital have not been restored, nor are they better, and they are able to solve the human resources problem from elsewhere. However, they have fewer losses, and they have no losses, because now they run a hospital some mechanical engineer or something like that is, it is said, a technique which, of course, deals with these things as technically as necessary, otherwise, sends the most difficult cases to Ljubljana. And the loss has shrunk. Then Fakin was in a cell hospital, once again having an affair with erythropoietin. Such affairs were all over Slovenia, but there had to be annihilation. Then was the director of the Rode Clinical Center, where there was an affair of operating tables; this affair is not over, we don't know the results, we don't know any guilt, we don't know no epilogue. Last time this committee found out that it was not economic damage, but moral damage or something. And then, of course, Kosher, Director of Health Insurance. Remember the diaper affair because he said he ordered a diaper without a public order. First it was an affair, then it was an extermination. And then a public order or purchase of diapers was made, and again it smelled like urine in all the homes of older citizens in Slovenia, because it was impossible to buy, impossible to perform, you know those things. Well, and the last affair, of course, was the affair of wages in health institutions and hospitals, with the performance of the director of psychiatry Kocmurjeva, who received 2 million gross last March. I must say, if we are to be honest, since 2002, the Minister has been receiving the current salary of all hospital directors at the table. And the minister knew that last April. And why is the affair coming out again? But Kocmurjeva, who receives her regular salary of about 620,000 dollars a month gross, got a lot that month, 2 million 600, and the affair erupted and is now waiting for liquidation. The Council of the Institute should have already resolved it, but as the President of the Council of the Department of Ljubljana Psychiatrics, who was a member of the Ministry of Health, somehow indicated and others said that the Minister wanted this point of replacement of the Director to withdraw from this meeting, which had recently been due to what he said, because it would have harmed his interpretation. So it was said, we don't have a magnetogram. Therefore, this clienteleism has disintegrated, expanded, and whoever supports such a policy supports a very damaging matter, supports customerism. Gentlemen, that's not good. This is also not good for a political ruling option. This is not good for the country - to support such a method, the method of customerism in the public procurement system and in human resources issues. Of course, kind of directors, I didn't count them like Dr. Fras at the Oncology Institute, and so on. But that's enough. I must say that first the discreditation, then the liquidation, that this method still lives in our space, that so many affairs as were in this mandate were not in the previous. Not because the press would have tracked them down, but because someone needed them. And as the last point relating to point 1, this is government property management. Managing state property as if it's human property, where you do what you want, where you want to buy, where you want to sell it, where you don't need it, where you don't stick to regulations and laws, public calls, gentlemen, so doing with state property is a rejected act and such a policy is a rejected policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Now, before we go to the decision on the motion for a decision on the statement of non-trust, we will also hear the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra. Once again, I'm warning you, we'll move right on to the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u116	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, at this late hour, I wonder whether I would believe those who say that it is my duty to defend myself against what is written in the interpretation, or whether this is the moment to respond to 10, 20 or 30 such fugitive unproven accusations that I have heard in recent presentations. And believe me, my character is such that it would be very happy to answer, and if you had 2 hours, you would have 2 hours. But today, the burden of proof as usual was left to me, not you. I didn't get any proof from the interpolation investors, except for waving away with some documents. Their interpolation did not contain any documents. I got a job or an answer that I didn't show documents. By the way, at our Ministry, all the documents listed in our reply are always available, including the transactions. The burden of proof is on those who press charges, not on those who defend themselves. What revolved around most of the debates, this is the story of Trnovo, is actually kind of interesting. I'm going to allow myself some naive comment, after all, it was a contract here, and I'm going to make a simple comparison between the two subjects of the state. Not exactly like between the two ministries, if two ministries were selling each other and then one was accused of taking advantage and the other was used. It is clear that the level of the country and the city is different, however. The city of Ljubljana will not only be, but it is already preparing in the coming months, building a home for older citizens in this area this year. As I was informed, they already have the first 100 million dollars to start construction. The home of the elderly citizens will be respected here, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, I don't know if I got it right, but I heard that a country that has become the owner of a square that it has received as a purchase should be charging its own rent. If I understand correctly. I have heard a bunch of insinuations, which, of course, cannot be commented on differently than only with the naked fact that we have said at the outset, this matter has been examined by the authorities that are called for this in this country, financial inspections, state defences and also by the criminalists of the public security administration. If all of this is not enough, and today I hear it in this way from your side of the procedure again, of course there is a defence here, probably even completely unable to convince you. The second thing, the catheter needs to be answered briefly, a project that has been in recent times in recent comments to the wide open, although it has been included in the interpretation, but only because of the receipts of some colleagues, not as content. We are very proud of the project as a matter of substance. If those citing its course and its results quote the daily press, their problem is. This project was approved by this Parliament with a high number of votes of support in 2000, when I was not a minister. And this project has important results, which have also been confirmed by the positions of international experts. This project was by no means completed, and not after the initial proposal, the end of last year, but this June. And then the results will be presented where the project came to. Let me say again, because these numbers, these 500, 600 million, are so easily used to communicate this to the public, of course, because the ministry also costs, as some office at the annual level costs! Ladies and gentlemen, even your referendums cost half a billion dollars each, and money will be spent more quickly. In just one week, this sum will be used as for this project, which takes four, five years and will have very important results. Let me mention, therefore, that the project is well-rated and that the salaries or incomes of the individuals you mention must be given a comparison, otherwise over the finger: your salaries, honourable Members, if you follow the same criteria for the cost of the job, are about 150,000 tolars on the day, and of course mine, of course, is still a little higher. So much so you know what we're talking about. Because I don't think it's the same understanding as the cost of the job, the gross salary and everything else. But if I move on to what seems to me to be the point, and I am happy that it is the point, and that is why I am also happy today's debate, as I said at the outset, every debate is good. Nevertheless, today's debate has shown that reform is the essence. You might say, according to some playwright, the book is a weapon. Apparently, the book is a weapon, a white book for two sides in this House in another way: one side is afraid of cutting it off, says it is dangerous. She says she's dangerous and she needs to be rejected. On the other hand, I hope that it will be used for the purposes for which it is intended to establish it and to contribute with its help that citizens will have even better - not because it would be bad, but an even better health system than before. You're telling me that I took the first 20 minutes to present this health system, and you've been telling me all day, how we haven't done anything or how much bad we've done. I have made it clear that I do not imagine that these positive movements can or are merely a result of the good functioning of the Ministry, but some small credit has been given to the Ministry for these effects which are before you. The future will, of course, show in clear trends how these change from minister to minister. And the future will also have an opportunity for new ministers to respond to what they have contributed to the system. I'd like to mention a little bit more about the very content of the reform. It is clear and everywhere there are health reforms under pressure from two main health system protagonists: those with more partial interests, they are operators, they are drug factories, they are equipment manufacturers and they are private insurance companies. Their lobbying is also very clear in this country and is also evident in this House. And these most powerful groups in countries tend to bring down these reforms. The vast majority of reforms are collapsing. There was no major debate in 1992, when the current solidarity system was significantly reduced overnight; when a large redistribution of money from the poor to the rich arose. 15% of the current funding, which suddenly became private, was a shift in money from the poor to the rich. I heard today that single premiums are something that's normal. There were no macro-economics back then, no big politicians, no one got up. Yeah, but little people didn't have their own representatives. Little people, I'm sorry, didn't understand, I hope to say it, because even a little bit bigger people didn't understand what happened back then. I don't think I understood for a long time what happened to us back then. If we want to wind this thing today and I think it is right that it is, then I am glad that I have heard so many words of support in this House today. Perhaps this debate today was not so pre-eminent, but in any way it was an important debate on the future of reform. And allow me to thank both of you, everyone in this House. Everyone has contributed in their own way to this content of the reform being articulated and, of course, I remain optimistic. I thank all those who have shown so many good words for what we have done in this mandate. This obliges us to make the same use of these few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I conclude the debate on interpretation against the Minister of Health. Interpellators propose to the National Assembly that after the discussion on interpretation for violations of laws and regulations, the State Assembly should dismiss Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra. I will now put to the vote a decision that reads as follows: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, expresses its distrust to the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebru. In accordance with Article 118(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more Members and Members. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. We're moving on to decision-making. There'll be some explanation for the voice, as I can see. First, Comrade Podobnik, behind him, Comrade Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Minister, distinguished Mr President. We have announced in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that our decision on the vote will be taken after the conclusion of the debate and the performance of the Minister. We have not taken a break now, but we have consulted in the Group of Members at this time. I must say that today the Minister has responded to a number of allegations that have been made here today, and some have been answered by the interpretation. I must say that he has not convinced the Group of Members of the Commission of the findings relating to the Trnovo Clinic. In our view, certain elements remain at stake in the sale process, particularly with regard to the damage to the Clinical Centre and the question remains open and its responsible were not convincing that this procedure did not also constitute a violation of certain laws and regulations. Another area that was very important, and our attention was focused, is the area of health reform. Here I would like to say that, as a group of Members, we have been very attentive to this changed concept of reform, which has changed. It is a financial change in terms of how to increase solidarity and eliminate complementary insurance. This concept, in our view, is unconvincing and we have not supported it in the parliamentary group as such since the beginning. For us, the key question is whether, after today's debate, the Minister will have political credibility to continue to manage the core with all his energy. According to our belief, Slovenian health care, which, especially at the time of the reform proposal, has become pervasive and vulnerable in the sense that it can be vulnerable to the injury of the patient, that this health care needs the first person, a minister who will be able to calm things down with reasonable and calm action and who will bring more partnership and trust into this reform. The Group of Members decided to abstain from voting today unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u119	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! What we have been dealing with today is part of a 12-year-old government disease, and we should actually be dealing with government interpretation here. Nowhere in the world does the interpretations deal with the impressive achievements of any minister, but rather, according to the speaker of the interpretation, the minister did the wrong thing. That's how we understood it, so we prepared the interpolation. Of course, we have very different views on impressiveness. The Minister used a quarter of his performance first to explain his impressive achievements. We cannot consider 50 billion deficits in the insurance and health institutions to be a achievement, or a achievement with a large negative foregleam. We do not consider the achievement of all the scandals we have witnessed recently, nor do we consider the achievement of reform or the proposal for reform in the last year of governance, when we know that this matter is impossible, regardless of whether it has been prepared better than it is. But we do know that its essential part fell at the very beginning. Mr. Secretary is talking about rats in Trnov. But I'm interested in shit in Slovenia. I'll vote for the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u121	Comrade Soparev has the floor to explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good evening and almost a nice morning. Many words were spoken in this nearly 12-hour debate. From the flood of words, on the one hand of the accusers, sharp, even empty and misleading, and on the other hand, the words from which care for our health, trust and honesty was perceived, I sought out all the speakers of facts that would convince me of or against. I will vote against interpolation because I do not want to be left without health care at an old age, because the Minister for the Care of the Sick has also added care for the healthy and because with a clear vision of the health system, he has succeeded in providing the city he is going to be in the development programme of the Government of Health. I will vote against interpolation because I support the White Paper's path in which the Minister hopes to cut into the process of change in health care, i.e. changes in the health system, and these are probably feared by many. And lastly, I will also vote against it because it seems unhygienic to fill pots with unreal mud and pour it on an individual before the elections for possible success in the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u123	She's a magician's colleague. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against the interpretation of the work and responsibility of Minister Kebra. I don't belong to those who would think that our health care works flawlessly. But I am one of those who are aware of the importance of health for all individuals. And that is why I will support the Minister because he has embarked on a major health reform, which is based on the principle of solidarity. In the white book, the vision of Slovenian health is haunted. However, I find it unacceptable that we should define ourselves aprioristically and as if everything was already complete. And while the opposition may be expected to bring down reform, it does not mean that it can count on my participation in doing so. In particular, I would like to point out that Dr. Keber broke some of the taboos in health care and put himself on the side of those for whom health care is intended, that is, people, even at the cost of popularity among fellow residents. And I could easily list cases that indicate what the interpolation investors are actually in the way of. The work done by the minister requires courage, not greed, to be thought of by those who are so concerned about Slovenian national character and interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Really, Minister, you wrote nicely to your LDS colleagues, who are some good, and some of them are a little worse, reading those announcements you wrote. Some people didn't even understand what you wrote to them. But I mean, who would say that you are, what kind of a citizen would say that you're a liar, I won't say that, what kind of a citizen would you say that when you were talking about rats, you were thinking about patients, and I won't say that, and yet I don't think most of your colleagues from LDS were under duress for you. They know about your sins, and they will surely sleep badly when they give you support. Maybe not, as they say, they don't sleep well, because they're used to such support when they give support to those who cheat, steal, and stuff like that, because it's somehow in the style of certain [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u127	The explanation for the voice is that, not the controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u128	organisations, political parties, forums and the like. [[...]] So I don't know what to say about this. Yes, I explain my voice, I explain my voice, of course, and this is the voice of the Slovenian National Party. Maybe he's weird, I know he's weird, because everything that doesn't belong within the framework of the Liberal Democracy, which doesn't belong within the framework of the coalition, is weird, is deviant. Now I'm just waiting for you to start shooting at us, closing us down on the road with the cops and everything. [[...]] That's it. And I have to say, it's gonna be hard for you to catch me today because I'm not driving home alone, but someone else is taking me.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u129	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u130	But surely, dear fellows, take your time, look in the mirror and vote in such a way that it will be good for this country and for these citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u131	It's been a while. My friend Mamić has the floor to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. As I have been following these four years since I am a Member of the National Assembly, Mr Kebra's proposal has never convinced me to come together with this. Not as a person, please. Today, there was also talk about the law on artificial fertilization, alcoholism, and so on. We know how he ended up first, what a fiasco, but one of you boasts that it was something I don't know. As far as this alcohol is concerned, are you really as sure as you said today, what success have you achieved with this? I even know the case, someone who has a buffet complained to me, and he said, "I used to sell schnapps" every hour, but now guys come to me, bring me a bottle in their pocket and drink their "snapps" and I give them a cup of coffee. Is this a success now? Marriage is just a matter of paper, and how it's going to be done is something else. Then I am also disturbed by the fact that the gentlemen of the government coalition, most of them were prepared and read as if they were responding to opposition reactions, and also by the fact that you haven't answered a lot of things, you haven't answered a lot of questions, especially Mr Drobnik's questions. There's no way I can vote for you. Let me get this over with. I remember when fellow Member Peterle once said that if we put this paper to the vote and we say it's white, the government coalition says it's black, it'll be black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I'm not tired without a glass of wine, I'll be free when I have time, and I'll be free because we're here at work right now, and I don't think it's necessary to give ourselves a soul or something. After all, I am glad that many things have been said today, opened up, demonstrated that there are problems as well. The problems haven't been from yesterday, they haven't been since 2000, they're probably even older. However, when they begin to be saved, they also open up wounds, as has been shown to Minister Kebra, and I think that he is able to save them with one proud attitude. I will also support the Minister because he was brave enough and determined to resist those who for many years opposed finding room in the Slovenian space for another new medical faculty. And this fall will be the first entry. That's how he's going to confess, not just criticize. I will vote against this interpretation with determination myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u135	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll explain my voice. Most, not all, I listened either in the hall or in the office and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u137	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u138	If there were any more such speakers who were the only honest ones I believed, such as Mr Tone Partlič, I might even be convinced, but I would vote against the interpretation because I have my head and my mind. [[...]] I will not respond to such ridicule on the left side of the Liberal Democracy. Mr. Tone Partlich, you were the only one I believed and you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u139	There's no controversy, just an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u140	Yeah, that's why he said what he meant. And if there were others, we could agree, so I will certainly vote in person for the interpretation. And to Mr Partljić, if you will only allow me to do so, it is true that you have said what you think, but as far as I know, in our society today is also the 70th anniversary of death, not just of birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u141	Good. My friend Dr. Bayuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Interpellation to the Minister is not an interpretation of the system, it is an interpretation of certain actions and decisions that he has taken and which, according to our assessment, are illegal and are not in line with what we expect from an official in a normal state of law. I would like to mention another thing that was opened by another fellow Member, to whom the Minister did not respond, he did not mention it at all. It's a public invitation to a cardiovascular surgical clinic on our shore. Among the conditions that everyone who applied for it had to meet was that of having to mention those who were known to be world specialists who were also involved in the business. Mr Minister decided for one group, and that group presented as a prominent associate of the world's physician, who is known all over the world, because the principles of "bypass" technology was Dr. Rene Favaloro in Cleveland, Ohio. Dr. Favaloro was a personal friend of mine. I knew him. Dr. Favaloro died tragic deaths a few years ago. The invitation, however, required a CV and a signature, a CV and a signature of a dead man, a specialist whom Dr. Keber certainly knows he is not in the world, but he also signed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u143	Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, as the oldest Member, I will say that I will vote in favour of the interpretation, so that you will know that I am not mad yet. But if I said I'd vote no, you'd say I'm out of my mind. But I've heard a lot of people promoting healing snake oil, and today it reminded me a lot of what we've heard here. I hope that the lady who said she expects this health system to help her when she's old, but I say I hope that some other health system will help me at my age, because I don't believe it. Well, I'll vote for the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u145	I got two more applications, mag. A trifle and then a fellow Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. It's not the subject of this interpretation of the health system, not the white book, even though there was a lot of talk about it. Article 119 of the Constitution states what is a violation of laws, regulations or constitution. And that's what you need to lean on. And that's what the interpolation was all about. If you do not support the proposal for interpolation, it will mean that you can sell state property without public invitations, that you can give public service or any work that is for the ministry or for the country, without public invitations, just below the table, at your own discretion, according to the values that suit you, do it three or four times, or ten times, just to achieve your goal. This is what we decide today, nothing else if this is not supported, the green light for such projects will continue to be given. Such citizens of the Republic of Slovenia certainly do not support them, and that is why the solution or decision is in itself offered: interpolation must be supported and I will do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u147	Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u148	I am speaking on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and I predict that we will, of course, support the interpretation. Also because this is what I think is the first interpolation when the government coalition did not refer to the Minister's professional support. This time it really didn't work out, and I have to say that you were careful not to argue. Minister Kebra's profession doesn't support it. We have heard this many times, even today in the central reports. It was said that the minister had broken many taboos. There may be some, but there certainly isn't one. The mess of salaries in public health institutions is enormous. For December, the highest wage scales were published in public institutions, all of them. And among the top ten are seven of them from health care. There is no clinic center among them, which is only 13th place. In the first place is the Institute of Health Care, Koper, where he had a leading 3 million 200,000 tolar salary. When he was asked how this was done, he said I paid so high a salary on the basis of a decision of the Ministry of Health. Then the Health Home Ormož, 1,800,000, Health Home of Slovenian Konjice 1,700,000, Health Home Šentjur 1,700,000, Health Home Metlika 1,500,000, Health Home Sevnica 1,500,000, PharmacyKočevje 1,500,000. In short, public institutions that do not enter the market where wages are determined administratively, in this case by the Ministry of Health, which has scissors and canvas in its hands and where there is total disorder. For this reason, it would be very good for this country to have a minister of health who will have a social sense not only for foreign advisers from Australia, Canada and America, where he pays hundreds of millions for some kind of advice, for projects that should be completed under the 2000 law last year, but still not, for a minister who would be socially sensitive to patients, to users of health services, and only to the leading public health institutions that receive unearned unearned million wages. This is why we will support the interpolation.If the Minister remains, those who will contribute will assume responsibility for such a situation, for disorder in wage policy in the public sector, in health care and for spending hundreds of millions on counselling, where the taxpayer's money disappears unknown to where, perhaps also in professional assistance to prepare the many reports you have read today.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u149	It's Mogo's turn now.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u150	Mr. President, thank you so much for your words. Mr. Secretary, my voice will also be the one to help you stay for the following reasons. The statistics clearly show for a long time that you have successfully led the ministry politically and that you have achieved the successes that few at the beginning of your mandate doubted that you would achieve them. As for youth, you have also achieved through your alcohol moves, and earlier that you have supported smoking, that part of health education has also been passed through your legislation into schools, and what has happened lately, I welcome in Slovenia. Then I must also say that you have stabilized the health system. We faced you almost every year once, if not twice, the problem is that doctors wanted to strike if not for the other, but for their wages. I must say that you have also decentralized health care, the investments that have been mentioned here show that they have spread throughout Slovenia. And one more thing I would like to say as Styrian is that you are extremely delicate, even before you were Minister, you tried to network quality health homes to expand and also hospitals, you were first among the initiators that Maribor received four clinical departments. After 50 years, you were also among the initiators for the establishment of a new medical university. And let me tell you, dear colleagues and colleagues, that perhaps in enthusiasm, the last time a voter spoke to me, he told the Member who was from Styria to dry his hand if he voted in favour of destroying Kebra. But it's a vox populi. Take this the way it is. I mean, Minister, I want you to stay, and I want you to do a lot of good work.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u151	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u152	Your Honors are here! On behalf of the parliamentary group, in the introduction, my colleague Mojet would like to touch himself to dry the hand of the Styria Member - yes, to dry the hand of the one who will oppose the interpretation in this sense, of course, that we will close the health house of Arnold Drolc, for which I sincerely hope that Mr Moje, as an MEP from Maribor, knows everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u153	There's no controversy, pal.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u154	On the other hand, I would like to say that today's debate is not about a system of wages, secondly, it is not about invitations to tender, and thirdly, it is not about clinical beds, as has been said in many cases by the Member groups or Members. This is mainly because your Minister of Health has introduced a new economic category, this is buying health. And in the Slovenian National Party, we cannot agree that health has become a category that we can buy on the market. And as long as such a market order applies, as long as the idea of the Liberal Democracy that health is also possible to buy on the market, so long as such a minister, such a policy, and such a government, we will not be able to support. The fact is, regardless of what any of you are saying today, you have set up a system where it is easy with a higher monetary power to buy a higher standard of health. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that health is one of those categories that should not only be accessible to each of us, to every citizen and citizen, but should be equally accessible to all of us, not only on the basis of capital power. Thus you have created, colleagues from Liberal Democracy and colleagues from the United List, also by correcting my colleague Bogdan Barovic, you, too, Tone Partljič, have established a category that allows the purchase of health. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not fair. Health should be available to all of us. Until, unfortunately, you will support such a policy, you will not have support in the Slovenian National Party. The Slovenian national party is still and will always claim that health must be accessible to all categories of citizens, not to those you are defending today, i.e. with high capital power, but to those with medium capital power and especially those with low capital power. As long as you're doing this selection as you speak the nonsense of Mr. Mohet's case, let the hand dry, ladies and gentlemen, shame you! We do not want such a minister in the Slovenian National Party. We do not want health to be introduced as an economic category. And let the hand dry all of you who will support such an idea - the idea of buying health for money.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u155	Please don't refer to your colleagues and colleagues in explanation, because even if you wanted to, I can't give them a word for an explanation. Colleague Zalokar Orazem is the last on my list, then we'll move on to a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the interpretations against Minister Kebra, nor will I, because today, at least on average, things are being read to the Minister and because it is precisely one of the arguments put forward a few minutes ago that I am particularly convinced of the great ignorance even of the people sitting in the legislative branch of power. I would like to say that I will not support the interpretation because the Minister is not responsible for the salaries in health care homes. All those who know the system know that payments in health homes are made by the saints of these public institutions, that representatives in these councils of public institutions are appointed by public officials and by municipalities. These anomalies that happen are, unfortunately, the fault of others who make decisions in these worlds and not of a minister who unfortunately has nothing to do with them. It was this argument that convinced me that probably all the other arguments that we have heard today are just one big lie and one big demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u157	The word is from a fellow Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you very much. In fact, a person would like to be on this side of us, and I also wish that there was an interpolation, because we could talk about what an interpolation is. But just as we often don't know what we're supposed to do and why we're doing some things about the referendums and why we're referring people to what we're supposed to decide here, we don't know how to put it in the space that we should put it in. Interpellation should prove something. And the basic rule of law is that someone is innocent until proven guilty. Even when we're interpreting here, we should prove to Minister Kebra that he was doing something wrong and that something was wrong. He doesn't have to prove to Minister Keber that it's not true what's written in interpretation. He needs to be proved true. Forgive me, but there is no evidence of this, there was no evidence of this when the interpolation was written, that evidence was not present today in those 10 hours, and there will be no evidence of this tomorrow when we vote on this matter in one way or another. As long as there is no evidence of this, it is simply impossible to support such interpolation. I don't have any reservations to even support some kind of interpolation if I'm convinced of that. By the way, I've done this once before, and of course I won't do it in this case. There's no way I can support this interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u159	My friend Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u160	Although I did not understand earlier the story about the project of the Centre for Cardiovascular Surgery in Izola, I must say that I am pleased that during the mandate of Minister Kebra, this project was successfully completed, that there was a release of the free capacity of the General Hospital Izola for these purposes and that Mr Radovanovič will certainly be able to lead this centre successfully and that this will certainly also encourage and hope for the hospital Izola, which will likely find its position, a better position both in the region in Slovenia and perhaps wider. I am certainly also pleased that by placing a secondary and higher health school, that there are also spaces in this hospital and that this ensures a comprehensive professional development of healthcare in this environment. And, of course, I also thank Minister Kebra for his contribution to development or the establishment of the University of Primorsk, which is an integral member or member of the Higher School of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u161	My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u162	One of the points of interpolation was also affected by the way and preparation of health reforms and the costs or expenses associated with it. I am still, regardless of the many arguments that have been put forward today, firmly convinced that such a health reform is in place for refugees in the European area and that the Slovenian health sector will not have anything to do with this reform, first of all with the bad and additional delays in the necessary changes, as well as with the good. It is true, however, that my vote for interpellation will not be enough to allow Mr. Minister to sell these uniforms in a third election campaign. He did so twice, even though it was said that we were going to an election campaign today. The Minister will be able to do that in the third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you. My friend, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you, President. Apparently, there will be another song tonight, a dog song in the full moon, and the cafe will go on, and tomorrow will be all the same as before, when people have waited years and years for operations or when they pay high-priced medications, disproportionate to their pensions and salaries. And apparently, all the strong arguments for the government majority in this national assembly are completely superfluous - the caravan will move on. Despite the fact that only today, what I examined on the Internet, there were 11 people who voted 80,000 people, none of whom gave support to the minister. The ratio of support for interpretation was 76:84. But like I said, the dogs will bark, the caravan will move on. Although people are dissatisfied, users are dissatisfied that no one today has remembered the endless number of nurses who are not well paid, the terriblely good doctors who are trying for the oath of status they have, and no one has even remembered those who will still be using health care - not those who are lying in the same disgraces as this picture was presented today. I'll vote for discharge myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u165	Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u166	I will vote against the interpretation because the proponents have not convinced me of anything with their arguments. It is a farce that has been directed by the SDS and New Slovenia strategies. We will vote against it because it was obvious that those who do not have so much political culture and the rightness to Members and Members of Parliament were not to be ridiculed when our fellow Members speak. That's how you look and how much you're worth. As for the outside associates who were supposed to come from Argentina, Australia, didn't we have something back to the Prime Minister who came from Argentina? What's the problem with that now? If people are good, they can work with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u167	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I'd like to. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u169	Peace in the hall! My colleague Sok has a word, and that time doesn't count to him. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the explanations of the LDS colleagues do not concern this interpretation at all and that they speak something completely different in their explanations; it seems that they are reading some of the reports that were probably written by the Ministry's co-workers. I would like to say that after all that has been said and what I am experiencing in this Slovenian health area, I will vote in favour of the interpretation, against Minister Kebra. It seems to me that Minister Keber, even if he remains Minister tonight - and everything seems to be that, because the number of votes is sufficient, he is somehow politically dead and that he cannot do much more in the Slovenian area of health. For this reason, of course, it would be best to replace Minister Kebra in this government, but if not, you will do the Slovenian people a bear service, as all the problems we know will remain, the affairs will continue to arise, and the health organisation will continue to be one of the weakest points of this ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u171	My friend Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you, President. I was convinced by the interpellations' proponents that I would vote against the interpretation twice because I saw in your debates that your path to the bright future is pressed by greed. One of the lights in your debates that shows which way our health care should be moving, I haven't seen it. So thank God we have such a minister, no doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u173	Please, my friend Ashishch.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Since so many colleagues and colleagues have been advertising, I have been encouraged by this environment of mine to tell myself how I am going to vote. I will vote against interpolation, of course, but at the same time I am expressing one great surprise that, among the sins of our Minister, there are also no prisoners at the health home in Tržič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u175	Please, my friend Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u177	Peace in the hall. Comrade Diaca, you have the word no one else. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u178	I will support the interpretation, but not for the reasons that are stated, because the truth is loving, the Minister has also strongly rejected these findings. I will vote in favour of interpolation for another reason that has not been mentioned today. This is the general hospital of Celje and its problems. We're talking about backlogs because your determination, which you say in many cases, in this case, has not proved to be true, you haven't used the instrument provided by the Medical Services Act. I am specifically talking about the second paragraph of Article 56. If this article is applied, which you had the option to do, you could maintain the integrity of the cell doctors and also give the patients of the cell hospital their confidence in this constitutional. That's why I'm going to support this interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u179	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the interpolation for the following reasons. But surely, as my colleague Moja mentioned earlier, the hands will be dried by those Styrian Members who will vote in this Minister of Interpellation to prevent this from happening. If this minister had as much power and words at the medical school as he has here tonight, we certainly wouldn't have a medical school in Styria today. And thank God he didn't have that much power there. Why am I going to vote for interpolation? Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, also because people in endangered areas and in the Slovenian Gorica die faster than in urban settlements because of the failure of the health network. Because people in these areas die faster because they don't have the same options as others, because people in this country die faster because we have double people in this country and because in this country, the Liberal Democracy divides people into rich and poor and poor people you leave behind. That's why I'm voting for the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2004-03-29-SDZ3-Redna-35.ana.u181	I'm concluding with the possibility of someone else getting a word. We'll go to the vote. Please check the voting devices so there won't be any objections later. I say again, check the voting devices. Is there anything wrong with any voting device? [[No, no, ……]] Good. Then the National Assembly can move on to a decision. I will put to the vote the next motion for a decision, please, for peace in the Chamber. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives an untrust to the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra." In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. We're voting! There are 82, 28 for, 47 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I find that the decision on the statement of non-trust to the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, has not been voted on. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We'll resume work tomorrow at 12 o'clock. However, the chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, asked me to inform you that, due to the meeting of other committees tomorrow, his committee will not meet. She's meeting on Friday, 2:4 p.m., 12 p.m. Thank you very much. I want a nice night.
