ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e7321	The meeting was opened. The official protocols of 44 and 45. Meeting of 16 March 1990 In January 2008, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Fazekas, Haberzettl, Dr. Herbs, Wimmer, Brosz and Parnigoni. For the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Westenthaler raised written objections to the agenda for today's sitting in writing. The objections concern the negotiation of the 369 report of the Supplements to be dealt with as item 3 of the agenda. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. The debate on the objections will take place after the current hour. [[09:05:57]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e7370	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Instead of relief from social cold people: Tax reduction and compensation now!’ First of all, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. I give it to him and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e7397	Federal Chancellor! Government members! Madam President of the National Council – I admit that I am doing very hard on a day like this with this titulation, because your Presidency reminds me of the chairmanship of the Central Committee of the KPdSU. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] There the media are locked out, the opposition rights are suppressed, the ORF has to turn off its cameras after this hour – for the first time in history! And there says a President of Parliament, the reporting of the ORF... [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Madam President, your predecessor, the great President of the House, would turn around in the grave if they were still to experience it. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You're blocking!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a scandalous procedure, which you show here, that you censor the media and trample the opposition rights with feet – against which we protest! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Just because we do not bow to your EU ratification dictatorship in the quick way! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... democratic decision!]] Within a few weeks, from February to March, you want to go over with the ratification of the EU Treaty in this House. We're not for it, and we're not going to get to the knees! We are not blackmailed by you, Madam President, and not by the government parties. We stay hard: No ratification of the EU Treaty until people in this country have been questioned, ladies and gentlemen, [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They stand on the foot of war with the participation of people, Madam President. You've already said that in interviews. They don't care about the opinion of the population! The opinion of the Carinthians is irrelevant, Wolfgang Schüssel said in the Presidential – I quote him literally, I have written. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] It is immense how you deal with the opinion of the people in this country! We from the BZÖ will continue to hold up the opinion of the population and will not let us be blackmailed in this House – not by you, Mr Schüssel, not by you, Madam President, nor by you, Mr Cap! - That's for the introduction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The audience on the TV screens said: After this hour it will be shut down because the President has prohibited the ORF transfer – and that for the first time in this House; this should also be determined. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now to you, Federal Chancellor: Welcome! We are very pleased that you have descended from your VIP log. The jetset chancellor of the social cold and broken promises has once again tried to get to Parliament. At the moment, he comes from one fat-nap to the other. Mr. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, you are also the only chancellor who has managed to have a chancellor's malus. This is historically unique: the first chancellor with Chancellor-Malus! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I would really recommend you – in the next few weeks there is a lot to do again –: You should not celebrate feasts every day, but you should once work “fixed ” for the people of this Republic. People in this country expect this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Gusenbauer, you yourself have said – I quote you literally – that: The SPÖ must be at the top of the moral pyramid! – A few weeks later, Federal Chancellor, you are not at the top of the moral pyramid, but you have just reached the catacombs, underground. Because your policy is so far below, because you have a social cold policy, the heartless burden and the decimation of people in this country, you have reached the catacombs of the moral pyramid, and not at the forefront. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that's just why we're throwing this off to you today. We will not accuse you of your miserable upgrade affair that you have now caught. At the time, they called for the resignation of Prime Minister Grasser – today all this is not a problem if the Federal Chancellor does it. We don't throw you either. Your VIP performances in particular, because there you will be punished by the population and already bubbled out – as in Schladming, a valid pipe concert! –, but we'll throw you Your policy ahead, your social cold policy, and above all the biggest pension lie that has ever taken place in the history of the Second Republic. It is really a scandal how pensioners in this country get dizzy! I can read to you a little bit. I've got a letter here from 22. November last year, SPÖ logo on it, signed by Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, to all pensioners of the country. I quote from this letter: “That’s why we’ve greatly increased pensions now!” says Gusenbauer. This will be particularly evident to the people involved in small and medium-sized pensions, which is the large majority.” Mr. Federal Chancellor, that was your letter to the pensioners. Meanwhile, the turn of the year is here, and by now the pensioners are being sent to such a note. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] This is called the “pension notice” of the Pension Insurance Institute – I will show you this once. And here the pensioners write by hand on it, calculating the increase of their pension. Do you know what you've done to me? I've been thinking about it, it's true. One has a gross increase of 0.67 percent after deduction of the increased health insurance contributions and after consideration of cold progression because it falls into a higher wage tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl]] Do you know what's going on? – Less than 4 percent, that is less pension than he had before! That's a scandal! That's pension robbery! And this is your policy of broken promises and the social cold that we blame you, Dr. Gusenbauer. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] In addition, the following are added: Around 800 000 pensioners, whose pension is below the compensatory allowance rate, get only grossly up to 1.7 percent, and if you calculate the net, it may be 0.2/0.3 percent net, that is 2 or 3 € that these pensioners get more! 800 000 pensioners who can no longer afford life which cannot afford to heat up, which you have failed to do with this increase in pensions! And there is a grinning social minister in the background, who today defends and is still for good. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Do you have back eyes?]] You have resigned as a social democracy! You've abandoned the pensioners! I hope that the pensioners will present the bill to you at the next election as well as in Graz, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This pension increase is an incredible mogel pack! We told you this for the last time. Inflation increases to 3 to 3.5 percent, and also, on average, the pension increase is below the inflation rate. Also on average, all pensions counted together, the pensioners pay on it, get less money than you promised them, especially through the cold progression, especially by increasing health insurance contributions. Then you must not be surprised when, for example, the “Kurier ” writes: ‘Alfred Gusenbauer is the office of Heads of Government a number too large.’ He celebrates “One Year Me. ” He lacks any sovereignty, he suffers from boundless self-esteem. - Quote. Yes, that's it! You suffer from boundless self-esteem because you have lost ground liability, Dr. Gusenbauer. Not in the VIP circles, not in the VIP tents, not on the VIP grandstands, not in the first row of the stadiums you see where the population of the shoe is pushing, but you should go down to the population and talk to the people to find out where the problems really lie. That's what we expect from you. From the sand box to the Chancellor's Office and from the Chancellor's Office to the VIP logs and the Celebrities – a wonderful career! They feel comfortable. They are proud that you are chancellors, but the people who suffer from bleeding financially, and people do not have the money to finance their lives, especially those whose pension is under the compensatory allowance rate. This is actually the scandal in this policy. And it will also be unconstitutional. This pension scheme will not be maintained. It will not keep constitutionally because it contradicts the principle of equality. Mr Amon, I am already excited about what you are saying today. - Where is he? Did he apologize again, every time he practices criticism? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Today, his statements are in the paper. He admits that the pension solution – I quote it literally – is a palawatsch. Mr Amon! Then go here and bring Put it down with a request for a case! We agree that we grant the pensioners more than 3 per cent and that we also grant more to those under the compensatory allowance rate than this Federal Chancellor has ever granted, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we want. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you and your family are in the last “NEWS” ranking – this is this colorful magazine with the many pictures inside – and with the rich and beautiful in third place. But you're with the people down there and not in the third place. I'm telling you, the wave of inflation has to be remunerated. I am pleased that Mr Schüssel came up with a lot of weeks later in the ‘press hour’ that inflation is ‘a hammer’. We have been saying for months that inflation is “a hammer” that people can no longer afford bread, milk, food. The champagnes in VIP tents have also become more expensive, but you can afford that. Only bread, milk and food can no one afford. That is why we ask you to take a measure, to compensate for the cost. Put money in the hands of people so that they can at least afford the basic food so that they can afford heating, a cost compensation of €200 for all households below €3,000, just as it is already paying out in Carinthia's Carinthians! [[OBJECTIVES]] He's already doing that. Because where the BZÖ governs, people are fine and get the money into their hands. We also want economic support measures that are necessary. It is not God’s will to continue economic development this way – see Stock Exchange. We must support the economy. We need to reduce taxes, give people more purchasing power, improve the mood so that a mood comes back into the country, which lets people look forward with confidence, which is positive and where not your lamentary over too little money for pensioners gets the upper hand. That's very, very important. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer, if you continue to do so, then – I guarantee you – the next upgrade is scheduled. And do you know who will be the next upgrade? – The next upgrade will come from the voters. Then Dr. Gusenbauer First Class will fly out of the Federal Chancellery, I guarantee you. If you continue to do so and, above all, to burden the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes in this country, so to speak, sell pensioners for stupid purposes and always want to drive over in Parliament and, so to speak, always make your gnawings in front of the EU officials, then you will be punished for doing so with a statement on the next election!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e7627	Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, I would like to draw your attention to your allegations regarding my procedure and presidency. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] In this House, there has never been a television broadcast without a statement between all five political groups. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And never was a television broadcast forbidden! They've forbidden her!]] There is also consensus that we do not want to do so in the future until there are any other regulations, and I remain, as my predecessors have done. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have forbidden the TV broadcast!]] Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler, an order call. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have censored the media!]] [[It was in favour of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You did media censorship!]] Mr. German Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer has now made his speech on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e7735	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is right and reasonable that today the House is dealing with issues of the wave of inflation and the impact on people. It is indeed true that last year the average rate of inflation has been 2.2 percent, but unfortunately during the year the price has increased enormously and reached 3.6% in December. This is not only an Austrian phenomenon, but also a phenomenon under which the eurozone today suffers as a whole – due to increased energy prices, due to higher food prices worldwide, and this also leads to the corresponding consequences. I think it makes sense to see if, as a result of these international price increases in Austria, there are not some of the riders who are trying to make their own contribution to making the price increase even stronger. It is clearly too high with 3.6 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What are you doing about it? Give people money!]] This rate of inflation eats up a large part not only of the increase in pensions, but also of the wage increases negotiated last autumn. I understand, therefore, when many people believe that they do not have a real increase in quality of life and income due to this inflation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What are you doing about it?]] I would just like to point out, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, that you are a Member of Parliament, that you should therefore have a certain close relationship with legislation, especially to laws that have been passed here in Parliament under your leadership, that the statutory pension adjustments are carried out each year on a clear basis. The basis for the pension adjustment was the inflation rate in the spring of 2007, which is 1.7 percent. 1.7 percent! The Austrian Federal Government has decided to say that 1.7 percent is too little in the light of the inflation already slightly increased after that, but above all in the light of the positive economic development of last year. That is why Vice-Chancellor Molterer and I have conducted negotiations with the representatives of the Pensionist Organizations on what can be done to increase pensions in addition to what is provided for in the law. We have unanimously agreed with all pensioners on a package, which provides that in 2008 pension increases in Austria cost €637 million in addition, which in old currency are around 8.8 billion schilling. So it's a really substantial sum that was made available here. I would just like to remind the House of what the accompanying sounds were when the Federal Government made this joint decision with the pensioners' associations. There were many criticisms from several sides – from pension experts, from industry, from the economy, from others – that would be far too generous. The Federal Government has been kneeling in front of the pensioners, because the increase in pensions is far too generous. Those were the comments. The only thing I understand in this context is those who were confronted with an inflation rate of 3.6 percent in December, who are now receiving their pension notices and see that the pension increase is higher than provided for by law, but does not correspond to what they have in terms of spending experience. I know that some of the comforts are weaker. Only, the point is: The next pension increase will be made on the basis of the rate of inflation in force at that time. In other words, in the Austrian pension system, inflation rates are not paid in advance, but in retrospect, i.e.: If the inflation rate remains as high as it is at present, the next pension adjustment, based on the laws applicable in Austria, will have to be a fairly significant one and therefore also cause corresponding budgetary costs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The next broken promise!]] This must already be known to the House today. However, I must clearly reject the accusation of the social cold in view of a scheme that has provided for €150 million more than the law provides, because it does not correspond to the reality of the increase in pensions, which was now carried out at the beginning of 2008. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There is also an open word on what has been said about the so-called injustices in this context. Of course, Mr Oellinger, we have said: 1.7 percent for all, and then there is a supplement for those who have to live by the pension. That is, with all pensions lower than the compensation allowance, it is quite clear that by increasing the compensation allowance, the pension increase is 2.9 percent. They point out that there are a number of pensions where there is no compensation allowance. That's where I ask the question: Why is there no compensation allowance? [[Abg. Oillinger: I'll explain it to you!]] – Because there is obviously a second income in the household or there is additional income that does not result in the compensation allowance being applied. But it is clear that in Austria everyone who has to live by his/her pension, at least to the extent of the compensation allowance, has received the 2.9 percent increase. I therefore believe that people should not be unsure and confused, as some have done in recent days. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Also the comparison, as in the “Kurier” today, for example, someone who receives 1,200 € pension would suddenly have a greater pension increase than a married couple who has 500 and 700 € pension, is not true, as you know in the Hohe Haus, of course. It corresponds to the gross figures, but not to the net figures. For, Mr Oellinger, we have made this very clear: Compared to 2007, the increase in the pension of the married couple mentioned in the “Kurier” in 2008 is € 17.56 per month, the increase of the single earner’s pension in a family is € 12.94. For example, the Austrian tax system: With two separate incomes, the tax burden is lower, and therefore income also leads to more money in the pocket for a pensioner family consisting of two smaller pensions, despite the lower percentage increase. This is, I think, a point that you cannot put under the table: That this increase in pensions is socially balanced according to many criteria. However, I agree that, in the light of the last wave of inflation, many people would of course have wanted a stronger increase, but that will be the basis of the next negotiations. But what is striking in this context is, of course, the injustices that we still have in the Austrian tax system, such as that relatively early a rather high progression begins. I therefore believe it is important that more justice be given to tax reform in Austria, and I will remind you of this during the debate. It will be a matter of taking seriously the demand for social justice seriously, ladies and gentlemen, especially for small and medium-sized incomes in the field of tax reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then: Pension increases can contribute to combating poverty in old age. Pension increases can contribute to making life easier for older people in Austria. But pension increases cannot compensate for injustices of the tax system. Therefore, the question is: To what extent are pensions increased? – They have been increased more strongly than was provided for in the law. They will need to be increased more in this year if the rate of inflation remains as high as it is, and additional justice will be created by a socially just tax reform that will, in particular, relieve small and medium-sized incomes. Mr Westenthaler, when you address the social balance sheet of this Federal Government, I would like to point out that over the past 12 months, Austria has increased the penalty rate, it has introduced the overtime surcharges for part-time workers, there is full insurance for free workers, we have decided to extend the hacker scheme, says the principle: 45 years are enough that there is a halving of the reductions in corridor pensions, that the child rearing times in the pension calculation have been upgraded, that the student allowances have been increased, that we childcare facilities – for the first time since long! – promote again from federal funds so that in the countries something goes on, that we have put hundreds of millions of € in the fight against youth unemployment and together have decided on the training guarantee for all young people in Austria at the beginning of this year. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government is committed to producing social balance and fairness under the conditions of globalisation! On this path, we have achieved a lot last year, but not all. And we note that the wave of inflation that affects many people is a new challenge for this federal government, which we will respond socially by means of appropriate measures, by means of pension increases and by a socially just tax reform, because that is what people deserve. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What are you doing about it?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e7869	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has now spoken. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e7893	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! I am really very glad that, after these tyrates on the accusations made by Mr Westenthaler, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has brought rest, because it corresponds, please, to the dignity of the House, that there is a real debate here at the speaker's desk and that it is not in "world master's" accusations, because only in it are you world champions – and not in real politics, because many things you have said today were simply not right. I will now prove to you the opposite. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You'll be overtitled this current hour with: ‘Instead of relief from social cold people: Tax reduction and compensation now!’ Yes, you just heard the balance sheet, and that was the balance sheet of the last twelve months. However, Mr President, we still have three years in front of us in this legislative period in order to bring about further changes and improvements for people – and we will do so too! Yes, the last seven years have been years of stress, you know that just as well as I do. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We already have the year 2008!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: At this speech you will still be measured!]] Herbert Haupt and Ursula Haubner, who belong to your group, were responsible for social policy in our country at the time. I would rather go over the balance sheet over the last seven years; I do not want to say anything more about that now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] However, I would like to tell you from the BZÖ that you are debating very unilaterally here, because you know very well that people's expectations and needs are very different due to different living conditions. [[Abg. Grill: Unimaginable what you say!]] – You are proud of the balance sheet of the past seven years in the social field? – Not me, Mr Grillitsch! [[Abg. Grill: Unimaginable!]] I am still talking; I really do not let you forbid this speech! In our country, we must ask ourselves, among other things, the following questions: What do singles need, what do single mothers need with children? What does an apprentice need, what does a student need, for example, from the Burgenland who lives and studies in Vienna? What does a multiple family need, what do families with disabled children need? For example, what do homosexual couples need? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So this is what you understand under social warmth!]] What do immigrants need, what do asylum seekers need to have hope here and live in dignity? What do researchers need, what do scientists need, what do auxiliary workers need? And so on and so on. Yes, politics has a lot of responsibility in the country, but politics cannot be held responsible for everything; let us say that. It is important that we meet the diversity of people – I have now tried to explain this briefly – who live in our country. In any case: The measures taken so far by this Federal Government can be seen; the Federal Chancellor mentioned some of these measures earlier. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: The balance was really very bad!]] I have looked at this, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, but I do not know if you have already done so – and can therefore tell you: There were more than 120 initiatives and improvements in this legislative period mainly social: Initiatives which have already been set up or are in preparation or implementation. This means, statistically speaking, ten initiatives per month; every third day a new development since the Federal Government is in office. Again: These measures can be seen: For example, I only point to the 1 000 € minimum wage initiative. The cooperation between the social partners and the government works perfectly: In a very short time, it has succeeded in establishing collective contractually: 1 000 € minimum wage! And who are the main beneficiaries? – Those women who have previously earned less than €1,000 benefit from it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next example: pensions. These have been increased twice in the last two years. No question: This is a very important measure for two million pensioners in our country. Different pension increases, however, are clear, because if you have a certain amount of money – in every private household as well – you have to deal with it from the first to the last one month. A community has a budget, a country day has a budget, a federal government has a budget – and the budget that was made available for the increases in pensions had just the sum mentioned by the Federal Chancellor: more than €600 million. And in doing so, you have to be careful that this money is distributed in such a way that exactly the people involved in minimum pensions have the most of it, because they need it most necessary. [[Abg. Grill: Hopefully your speaking time will soon be over!]] In conclusion: You from the BZÖ are trying to dissuade anything positive about what happened in a year. And I definitely want to reject that! We stand for diversity – and in no way for the simplicity, Mr. Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8052	The next item is the speech by Mr Mitterlehner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8083	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a very serious problem today, namely the development of inflation. I understand that if the opposition chooses this topic for a current hour, since it is quite exaggerated, indeed exaggerated, which I cannot understand, is how you, Mr Westenthaler, formulate. That's how it's done. She said, for example, that the Federal Chancellor said he wanted to reach the top of the moralisation pyramid. To that end, Mr Westenthaler: You have definitely reached one: the top of the scanning pyramid. With such a choice of words, you can't populistly score points with those who watch TV, for example. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I also have to say quite honestly that I do not think it is right if you start here again to try to put old bills between the major parties into the debate, for example: What did the last government do, what did we do and so on? That doesn't bring us any further in the matter! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I meant BZÖ! They were the social politicians!]] I'd say, Let us look at the facts and figures! The Federal Chancellor has already pointed out that in the area of pensions an adjustment has taken place, an increase above the inflation rate of 1.7 percent. If, as you have done, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you go here now and ask: What else do we need to do?, that sounds good from the point of view of the respective group. What does the group, the group and so on need, just: This is a wishful programme, because on the other hand, we should also take stock and say: What can we afford? – With a social rate of 30 percent, with a share of 30 percent of the cake we produce together, what is necessary in our country for social benefits – and with this share of 30 percent, Austria is at the forefront of the whole of Europe. But on the other hand – hopefully you, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, do not miss out on this – we still have a 60 percent debt ratio in Austria, as measured by the gross national product! So, since we need to demand additional things, that's one thing, but you have to ask the question as well: Who's gonna finance that? – This is an account that young people have to pay later! By the way, you, Mr Westenthal, have not put forward a single proposal! What you're doing is pure populism! On what the Federal Chancellor has said: Somewhere under the impression of this 3.6 percent from December of the previous year, it was actually not seen that the inflation rate in 2007 was 2.2 percent. According to EU statistics, however, inflation is expected to fall again to 1.9 percent. Austria is among the six most price-stable countries in all of Europe – and I therefore have to ask what country you are talking about here, Mr Westenthal. Let us look at the 2007 inflation rate, see how it came about and why there are these rates of increase. Three causes. First: In 2007 there were price increases in the area of housing, water, energy; with a total fee of 4.6 percent; 40 percent of the total rate is due to increases in these areas. – I will then talk about possible countermeasures, because there are very likely some possibilities. Secondly, food prices have increased sharply, by 4.1 percent; that is, 20 percent of the overall causes, which is why inflation has increased – but not because someone would earn so much, but because these were adjustments to the world economy or were necessary to the competitiveness of the respective businesses. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] To this end, the public hand is always addressed here, namely the Federation: In this context, tax increases had only a share of 0.1 percent. I refer, for example, to the counter-point fee last year and to the increase in mineral oil tax from 1. July. The question is therefore: What can we do? First of all: To solve homework – of course, the public hand is also required. The city of Vienna, for example, but also other cities have increased the fees, but I also mention the ORF with its increase in fees, which will certainly not help to reduce inflation in 2008. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have seen – the ECB has also calculated this –: There is no doubt that a large proportion of the price increases also included wage increases, for example in service companies. – Therefore: Moderate wage negotiations – I know this always sounds very problematic when you say that, but it's true – can contribute to price stability in Austria. We are also of the opinion – concerning the financing of the regional health telephone: We should not increase additional labour costs, and, of course, a tax reform that improves families will be an important measure to help those who now have no financial room for movement, so to speak, because they have to spend all their financial resources on consumer goods. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] At the end of the day, however, we are also talking about an international problem – apart from inflation, competitiveness and so on: The ECB and others are also required. Therefore: Things leave where they are, i.e. the church in the village – and your speeches too. [[towards BZÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8159	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8180	Ladies and gentlemen! Values Members of the Federal Government! We Greens advocate a pension system in which everyone and everyone – that is important, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek – each has the same basic or minimum pension and there is a social security pension, depending on the amount of benefits, according to the number of years paid, according to the motto: What it weighs, it does. But... – No, you don't need to show with your finger. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek makes a hand movement.]] We've also proved that it's quiet. The important condition is that you and all of us are committed to the principle: There can be no difference in the calculation between a male pension and a female pension. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There can also be no difference in pension and pension subsidies – whether this is a worker's pension, an employee's pension, an official's pension, a self-employed pension or a farmer's pension. The state, the federal government has to provide the same benefits for all. Yes, this is our proposal and our model! And now, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, let us look at what you have done with this increase in pensions. They say – and this is a concession anyway –: Yes, the inflation rate has evolved differently than we have predicted. But that, Federal Chancellor, is still a little too little for me. I am still waiting for you to renegotiate as regards pensions, but also other public benefits, which remain far behind the level of inflation increase, so you are ready to renegotiate here. But this is still not the point I want to go out to, because you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have not said anything about it, not really, and you have not yet, Mr Sozialminister. I find it really problematic that with this increase in pensions, which you are responsible for by the government parties, a pension of €500 – mostly for women; usually, not only – is increased by 1.7 percent, and a pension of €1,000 – this is more about male pensions, but not just men – by 2 percent. Explain this to me! And don't come with the reference to that, there's also the tax. We want the pension system and the pension increase not to create new injustices. We want to be measured on the same scale as regards men and women. And that's not the case with this increase in pensions – I'm sorry; it goes to the address of both government parties! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the former clubman, National Council President and current senior president Khol says that there are so-called silent pensions – obviously the women's pensions and the low pensions – then think about what you have to do with this so-called pension increase. – Yes, these are the so-called secondary pensions – in your mind. The women just bring the bread. And there can obviously be such a way of raising these pensions a little less once. It already brings home the man “always” – under quotation marks – 2% pension increase. 2 per cent at an inflation rate in December of 3.6 per cent! You know as well as I do that these 2% are, of course, reduced by the tax, especially in higher areas. You know as well as I do, Mr Westenthaler, at your address, that at times when you were in the government, pensions did not even fall in value, but fell! That is what you have to answer, Mr Westenthaler. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I would also like to say something to you – to the address of the government parties –: If someone writes me a letter as to whether I am not going to the pension increase, so that I am not worse than in the previous year, then of course this pension increase is also true. There are also these cases. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this increase in pensions is unconstitutional. I invite you to step up a constitutional action against this increase in pensions.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8271	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8293	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We recall the last National Council election in October 2006, in which the voters made a decision because they were not satisfied with the social policy of the previous government. I say quite consciously that the ÖVP was used to social ice cream box policy, with the support of the BZÖ. That is why it is quite bizarre that today exactly those who were there at the time at the time in the waves of adventure and who also voted enthusiastically in favour of the interception game actually stand here for disbelief in the country. I can only remind you that at the time we had to read this poster by Mr Haider, a representative of the BZÖ, who announced great that we had stopped the catcher. [[The speaker holds a tablet with the title “For Austria Created. Jörg Haider stops interceptors’ in height]] – The opposite was the case! That was exactly the reason. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Today, all these exponents are in the BZÖ, which at the time have betrayed and sold the freedom policy with waves of inflation, with accident pension taxation, with EU contribution doubling and much more. They are not a credible representative, they belong to the social tax policy of recent years and have therefore, together with the ÖVP on 1st. On 1 October 2006 a rejection was granted. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] But it is disappointing for many voters to see that the party, namely the Social Democrats, was the first one. October 2006 has strengthened because one has believed that a social note will now come, that now a social responsibility, a social policy for people will come. And now the people who have strengthened social democracy are coming to the point that the opposite is the case. One has the impression that nothing has changed and, as has been said, the EIA remains the determining force in this government. Social warmth has not occurred. We experience it in the health reform. - Misachieved! The health insurance deficits explode. There is a wrong immigration policy, which has been driven under EIA and BZÖ in recent years to 50 000 net immigrants per year towards irresponsible mass immigration. – This will now be further supported by you. There is an e-card abuse that has caused damage to the amount of EUR 20 million, which even today had to be granted to the main association of social security companies. For the care solution. This is also an area where people would have expected something to happen in the country. - Misachieved! A red and black Hickhack experience the affected. On the back of the caregivers we experience this hack. There is an illegal solution after the other, which is extended, but no real basic care for the needy. Nothing for those who care for their family members at home! These are over 400,000 people who care for their family members who are in need of care and have not yet experienced any adjustment of the care allowance. No valorization! 20 percent loss of value must be experienced by these people. They're being abandoned. The last shirt is to take off the caregiver. In the fight against poverty, it could have been expected that something would move. - Misachieved! Nothing's been moving. Today, more than a million people are at risk of poverty in Austria. These are not less than 13 percent who are at risk of poverty who have income below the poverty line, of € 815 12 times a year. That's where we're just going to see a development where you're going to say: We're a rich country. We have economic growth. - Yes, good! Who feels anything about it? It is about the distribution justice we need to discuss. We are experiencing disillusioning developments here, where people no longer get out with their incomes and the pensioners have been snacked out again, have not received a corresponding index adjustment. In recent years, ÖVP and BZÖ have jointly made sure that the pensioners have been sacked. No index adjustment for years! But now you haven't balanced that, you've been back in this stress game for the pensioners. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is the untruth!]] We have a lot of pensioners in Austria – more and more – who do not come out with their sparse pension. If they now get their pension note and look forward to talking about “pension increase”, then the pensioners must feel planted by the Social Democrats and the Austrian People’s Party, because at the same time the evolution waves are reality, rent costs are increased, operating costs are increased, food prices are increased, and then you have a low pension increase of perhaps €2 or €3 per month. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] There you have to feel planted. It's not social, it's social! [[The members of the FPÖ hold a transparency with the title ‘Social Austria instead of EU dictatorship!’.]] And you should try more – I am already at the end of the sentence, Madam President – to ensure that Austrian interests are socially responsible and that you do not pursue an “EU billing policy” in this country. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8400	Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! You've shown your transparency. I'm trying to get you back on this. Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Beautiful transparency!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8432	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Strache, called the debate on the social situation in Austria, initiated by the BZÖ, a ‘curriculum’. I don't know what about that... – Ah, you don't, Mr. Strache? [[Abg. Strache: You weren't there at the adventure waves?]] You don't! [[Abg. Strache: We criticized you for that at the time!]] This is the scurry that Mr. Strache comes out again and again and criticizes the government of Schüssel/Riess-Passer, Schüssel/Gorbach, Schüssel/Main between 2000 and 2007, with the fact that this has already been the better time than what we now have, what you have wanted, a great coalition again. [[Abg. Strache: We weren't satisfied with that!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But what he conceals is that he has been with five out of seven years, the FPÖ and also Mr. Strache have been with this government. [[Abg. Strache: And also criticized!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are here – and this is especially bizarre – to present posters with the interception-stop, then you must, I believe, have been in the committee that created this poster, because at the time, 2002, you have been in Knittelfeld with the fact that you are throwing out a good government, unfortunately, and making such posters! [[Abg. Strache: They were Klubobmann]] [[Abg. Just the opposite!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I was always against these things, Mr. Strache. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. That's weird!]] But, not enough, he always says that he is against this EU Treaty, he is EU-critical. But when it comes to showing the flag – and that was the beginning of today’s debate, Mr Strache – when it comes to it – and I am not as opposed to this EU Treaty as some others do, but I am in favour of... [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: I don't know!]] [[Abg. You are in favour of the EU Constitution! You voted with Hurra!]] Mr. Strache, we are in favour of democratic implementation, we are in favour of democratic treatment, we do not want to see the fact that, if a national survey takes place in a federal country, one creates facts by peering through this ratification before that. [[Abg. Strache: The Austrian interests sold!]] [[Abg. Strache: You are against a referendum in Austria! You have prevented the referendum in Austria!]] Mr. Strache, what are you doing? What do you want? [[Abg. We want Constitutional Committees!]] – You want Constitutional Committees? You want to agree to this Hush-Push action. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] The BZÖ was the only party that has opposed this undemocratic process. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Abg. Strache: This is exactly the untruth! As soon as you open your mouth, tell the untruth!]] They are sitting in a boat with the ÖVP, the Greens and the SPÖ in a Husch-Fuch-Action, which implements this EU Treaty at a time when this is not at all necessary. [[Abg. Straw: Proclaim the untruth where it goes! That's your method!]] Madam President, this is exactly what happened at the beginning. A debate on television, a television broadcast with the agreement of a political group on a non-democratic procedure in the ratification of the EU Treaty, has never been possible. The fact that we are saying that it is not a matter of placing petitions, decisions and initiatives of the population as the last item on the agenda, but rather of putting them here in a prominent place, which we would like to injunctify and say, we are still giving it to you, but you have to agree to this EU roadmap, which, Madam President, is really unique. This is not the parliamentaryism your group in the government has promised us all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, it is already interesting: They have now explained in a word why this increase in pensions is nevertheless positive. But you have forgotten your own speeches from previous legislative periods. At that time, we raised the minimum pensions, the lowest pensions by up to 5 percent, and you spoke of “pension harvesting” in a bit. Now you defend a pension increase of 1.7 percent as a great measure, as a social measure of the Federal Government. We are criticizing this, Federal Chancellor! That's your problem. You have promised a lot and broken everything, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the new BZÖ! The SPÖ is the new BZÖ in the Federal Government! You two can fraternize!]] – Now, Mr. Strache is coming again as the defender of the SPÖ. Wonderful! That's right. Mr. Federal Chancellor, what I'm talking about: We need to increase pensions. But we are also concerned that the young generation, the working people, will be given the opportunity to make reserves, because these people will not be given pensions that today's pensioners will receive. That is why we also demand tax relief from young people, the generation of benefits, the working people – and not with minimum wages of € 1,000 gross, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You didn't do anything!]] That's net little more than your basic security for nothing. There should be a genuinely noticeable tax relief so that people can again afford more, so that purchasing power is increased and the economy is improved, which in turn creates jobs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Not the state economy, just as you have always supported it, but the economy is strengthening, creating jobs and thereby increasing tax revenues, so that society continues to grow. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 16 000 new jobs!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That would be an interesting, liberal way of making economic policy, but not the Defaulting of your broken election promises.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8759	Next, Mr Krainer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8781	Madam President. I think we can leave aside the brother's struggle, whether the blues or the oranges are the better blues or oranges. You can do this somewhere else. I think that this is actually just a banishment of voters or spectators. [[Abg. Strache: You are no longer a social party! You have to say that! Social democracy should remove “social” from the party name!]] I like the accusation of “social cold. ” You can look at what happened under your government. This can be beautifully compared with what this government is doing. [[Abg. Street: The new BZÖ in the Federal Government: the SPÖ!]] And that's where I just need to look, for example... – I deserve half of you, that's right, and I deserve very well. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Yeah, half of you. But the question is: What did you do with the pensions in your government time? – Now I’m not talking about your pension reduction reform, which we’ve pulled the poison teeth and get 40 percent of people back more pension than what you have decided. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: VIP Log at Opera Ball at Tax Payment Costs! 17 000 €!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But no! How did you increase pensions? – Once a year before the election you have raised a little above the inflation rate. Before that, you operated with one-off payments and partly did not even balance minimum pensioners inflation. And what does this federal government do? – It significantly increases the minimum pensions. Is that so that I now say for God's sake, you can be satisfied? No, no, no, If the inflation rate doubles six or eight weeks after the decision and increases to more than 3 percent, understanding is that this obviously has to be taken into account in the next pension increase. That's not a question at all. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why don't people notice that?]] But excited that we are doing too little, even though we are doing more than You've decided by law, it's ridiculous! That's the same way it's in the health sector. What did you do? – I remember ambulance charges, new self-holds. What's happening now is that self-holds are covered. So if the social cold is, it would be as if someone from Greenland was going to the desert, claiming that he was cold. This accusation you bring is just ridiculous and absurd. For years they have not increased student grants or scholarships. What's going on now? – They are increased by 12 and 15 percent respectively. And now, as a new measure, more than 5,000 students are added, which no longer have to pay tuition fees. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] But it is not only crucial what has happened, but it is crucial what is coming. If you are talking about a tax reform here today, this is certainly an important issue. This discussion has been with us for a few months, and it will certainly be a focus of discussion in the coming months. Here's what you're proposing: They say you have to relieve small and medium-sized incomes. I look at your own proposal: Of your proposal, people with small income have more zero euros, but you have $4,000 more in the cash register when you go to the “anker”. The seller at the “Anker” has exactly zero euro! This suffers from inflation, not you are suffering from this inflation! That is really the way you make proposals! We say that three things are important in the tax reform: The first is that she's social. This means that people with small and medium incomes have to be relieved – most clearly and noticeably. These are exactly those who have had nothing from your tax reform – from the last – exactly. This means that the first and most important priority is small and medium-sized income: social. The second thing that matters to us is that it has to be fair. There are different types of income: Someone can earn money through stock speculations. Today, this one sometimes even pays zero euro taxes. It can make money through interest income. This one pays 25 percent taxes. And someone can work. He pays 43 percent taxes – if I charge the service provider's share, I'll be over 60 percent. That is, it is important that we eliminate these injustices. What is most striking – as ÖVP has already moved a step – is that profits cannot be tax-freed by stock options from managers. We say: That's too little! Profits from stock speculation cannot be taxed less – these are not taxed at the moment – than when someone goes to work and earns his money through heavy work. So: Justifiably, she must be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And the third thing, which is not less important at all, is that tax reform must also be safe. The State has important tasks in the field of education, health, pensions, social affairs and must be able to fulfil these tasks even after the tax reform. What we do not need is: before the election a tax reform and, after the election, a savings package, where, for example, we are going to cut back on education and the like. That means social, just and safe! This is a policy with social manuscript. We'll do it, and everyone's welcome to take this path. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8904	Next, Mr Wöginger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e8925	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially at home in front of the screens! The topic of this current hour shows quite exactly: The location determines the position. One could also say: BZÖ and SPÖ have exchanged roles. We know the words “social cold” and “tax relief” from many debates. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] They are strangely always coming from the opposition. Two years ago it was the subject of SPÖ – then in opposition – and the BZÖ argued against it. [[Abg. That's right! That's a real analysis!]] Today it is exactly the other way round: The BZÖ insults, the SPÖ defends. As I said, the location determines the position. This is one, ladies and gentlemen, the other is the content: ‘Instead of relief from social cold people’. I say quite frankly to you, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, the social cold has not been there when you were or were in the government, nor is there it now. It is already bordering on cynicism to talk about social cold in a country like Austria with a social rate of around 30 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the wrong answer!]] We have already implemented many positive measures in the field of social policy in this legislative period. Let me give you a few examples: The better support for multiple-child families, the increase in family allowances from the third child – this is what people feel in their wallets! – or the increase in the penalty rate and the increase in the negative tax for low-earners and counterparts from € 110 to € 240. This is still on the agenda today. Perhaps you should read them, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ! Or the “baby package” from our Minister of Finance Molterer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] All fees associated with the birth of a child fall with 1. Next year Birth certificate, citizenship certificate, entry in the identity card or passport until the second year of the child's life. What I also very much welcome is the recent agreement of the Federal Government on the extension of the hacker scheme, the long-term insurance scheme by 2013. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is important for many people in this country! We welcome these measures. A sentence on the criticism point “pension increase”, ladies and gentlemen: The total volume is absolutely in order, and none of us question it, but these €700 million must be distributed fairly! Mr Sozialminister, this should be seen for the future! I am of this opinion, too. For example, if a married couple with a pension of 600 € each receive an increase of 1.7 per cent – and a married couple, each with 800 per cent of the pension, receives 2.9 per cent pension increase, then you should look at this classification for the future. The experts of the PVA have pointed out this as far as we are informed. I believe that this should also be done for the future in the interests of those concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally to the keyword ‘tax relief’ means: Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, you really need to know when you can make a tax relief. There has also been a large tax relief with your responsibility in 2004/2005. [[Abg. That's not what anyone felt! She was so big that she didn't feel anyone!]] At that time, the foreign exchange was: first generate the money and then spend it. Actually, this is a simple principle that we experience at home in the municipalities and in the federal states themselves: One cannot constantly spend money that one has not earned and has not taken! This is not going well in the long run and is mainly due to the younger generation. For this we are not to have, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The tax reform will come – Minister of Finance Molterer is the guarantee for it – and it will come at the right time! There will be a noticeable relief for families with children. [[Abg. Rosary: Do the black women politicians know that?]] This is what the Austrian People's Party stands for: Politics with far-sighted views, with home mind and with social responsibility. The ÖVP is the guarantee that we can go into a secure future together.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9047	Now comes Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9068	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, I am really sorry: So much for trying to connect you as a person to the fight for social justice, I do not bring it together. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It just doesn't fit in. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I will survive this!]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what's not fit together yet? For more than a year, the SPÖ has wanted to make us aware that it is trying anyway to do everything it wants and tries everything, but the evil ÖVP blocked, prevented, inhibited. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We do! Not: We “will”!]] What do you want to tell us? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What do you want to tell me?]] I understand: As a SPÖlerin, it would also be embarrassing if I had to sell a minimum wage below the poverty line as a success if I had to sell women – especially women – a minimum wage of €820 for success, which she might only get the next year, if not at all! [[Abg. Street: A secret SPÖ party member!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] It would also be embarrassing if I had to explain to the same women that their shopping center should now have opened longer, they must also work longer, but they will not be paid overtime due to the extension of the normal working time. It would be embarrassing if I had to sell this 25 per cent extra-hour supplement for part-time workers as the great success! We all know that every medium-sized company can handle this in such a way that at the end of this surcharge, it is certain that it will never have to be paid out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I understand that in such a situation it is practical to say: We would have wanted to be quite different anyway, but the ÖVP! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The Greens have nothing to do!]] Really exciting I find your justification for the care chaos. Suddenly, it seems to you to be about the service providers. That doesn't fit in, Minister Buchinger! They have decided to make the house-care law a legitimate service relationship: the worst payment, the most unreasonable working hours, the most reactionary working conditions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] That's embarrassing! But can you simply move it to the ÖVP? Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: I just don't buy you this whole cat jam! I am a child of the seventies. I know the possibilities of SPÖ, I know the power awareness of SPÖ. I mean, You're not a beginner! You can't make us know that. I do not buy you the excuse ‘ÖVP’. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You couldn't stop a mother with a child older than seven years from working for at least 20 hours – and that somewhere? She doesn't have to, but if she doesn't, she loses the right to unemployment benefit. You couldn't stop that? I don't think so. I don't think so. I think you didn't want this change of course. You are a party of the middle – and you say so – just to the right enough to defend the “little man” against the“ evil ” alien who takes away his job. But you are far from so left to make a minimum guarantee really possible, a basic guarantee that deserves that name. You have two-thirds of the majority of the social partners in the Constitution! That's where you use your political power against the main band-wronger? Are we supposed to believe all of this?- Oh, my God! We all know the ÖVP, and you knew the ÖVP. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should be a fairy tale reader!]] You have the responsibility in this coalition! It's embarrassing to continue like this. Or say, We're not gonna get this! If even the BZÖ is focusing on social policy, you have to think about it, don't you? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, do something about what you have promised us all for more social justice! Do not just talk about social warmth, but fight Finally, you are also opposed to the ÖVP for more social justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9232	Mrs Rosenkranz's next speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9253	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! One of the distinctive features of the past decades is that politicians' view is increasingly distant from the reality of life of the citizens. It is bad, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, if part of the opposition goes with it immediately and the perception is shifted somewhat. If you want to present yourself here as the savior before a new edition of the EU Constitution, I say: Would you perhaps turn around and look at your group? As far as I can remember, you all agreed at the time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You fell down!]] I also wanted to make a request for referendum at the time. Five signatures are known to be needed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You must inform Mr Bösch!]] They have me – where you now place such importance that you are the ones who want to participate in the population! – at the time not given. You could've done it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I got it right in my head, then I was the only one to sit back there! That's how I remember. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you've been negotiating!]] You are not the savior of the EU Constitution! You are trying here to ride on a horse you believe in – yes, the popular vote – that it will bring you something. [[Abg. Strache: Also against the referendum!]] But the memory of the population is certainly a little more long-term than yours. The gap that has arisen between the political class and the population is indeed considerable. This can be seen in the field of security, where we are explained – contrary to the appearance, even to the figures you hear – that security increases after you have left border controls. The gap is also considerable in the perception of how people are material. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have just conced a wave of tension here. They have said that it was already at the end of the year and this has caused people to see no real increase in prosperity. – No, it is not! Look at the situation of workers, especially those who have to do simple work and who like to do it and can do it well! Take a look at their situation – just once at the sobering figures! We have long had a high level of economic activity, but what does wage developments look like? If you are looking at the wage developments of the last decade, you notice that the lower fifth of wages – already adjusted! – has a purchasing power loss of 17 percent – all this has happened in your time, that is not a great achievement of social democracy! – while the top earners as the only one are growing up – but just fine for that! – of 5 percent. There you can now say: the many part-time jobs! This is not the case, however, because if you look at the proportion of labour income in the national income, you see exactly the same development. The share of income from wealth has increased dramatically. This is what economists say, that says sober numbers, and those who have to experience it and suffer it know that. Whoever has the impression that he can afford less and can no longer afford necessary things, is confirmed and is right. In fact, economic development has completely decoupled itself from the development of prosperity and the sheer disperse. It's true when you say: The poor are getting poorer and the rich are getting richer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another point that you always stress is the introduction of the euro, the blessed effect of the EU. The population, the folk mouth is already right: The euro is a teuro. For example, you don't get a liter of milk below 1 € – is only a number. And don't come with me now that it was many years ago: It hasn't been that long! Would you have imagined that a litre of milk costs 14 s? No, no, no, It's exactly living, water, energy, food – I quote middle-leighers – that have risen massively. In this respect, of course, this increase in pensions has not really been a benefit for pensioners. Anyone who knows how difficult you live with the minimum pension – and if you still have something to do with it, you have not got much more – knows that this pension increase was not for the benefit of pensioners. [[Abg. Strache: The ORF charge increase eats everything up again!]] The families also: Family-friendly taxation will come, you have said, my predecessor from the ÖVP. Do the women know? Does this happen to Mrs Brinek, or to Mrs Marek, who, in order to get ideologically priority, recently gave up family taxation? You could have family taxation at any time! We'll make a request again. You can have this at any time. Before elections, you bring it out, but you don't want to introduce it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Finally, I come back to something where you all agree and where there is no difference at all: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] The fairy tale that the EU assures our prosperity that the EU is the protection and response to globalisation is wrong. The EU is simply the engine of globalisation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9397	Mrs Haubner's next speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9419	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Watchers on TV screens! We have now heard various perceptions of various representatives of the parties. If the colleague, Treasure of the Greens, says that she has a problem with the social commitment of BZÖ, I would ask her to come at her own door, because just a Greens Foundation Councillor has voted in the ORF for the increase in fees. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Rosenkranz refers to the EU Treaty and to what happened in the last Federal Government, I would like to point out that her colleague Reinhard Bösch was the chief negotiator of the EU Treaty at the time. [[Abg. But no one else!]] I would also like to say one thing: You are now partly responsible for the fact that ratification is being whipped through here in Parliament! [[Abg. Strache: We have called for a constitutional vote that you have rejected!]] Here you agreed! We from BZÖ have been the only ones who have not agreed. You should also take note of this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Street: They didn't want the citizens to vote!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now on the real topic of our current hour: We know the economy is going well, the profits are rising and the companies and the companies have a lot of profit and many positive results. But more and more people have less and less of it. The reason – it has already been addressed today – is a massive wave of energy and food supply. The euro has become a teuro, real income is falling despite wage increases due to cold progression, and the government is also burdened by higher taxes and fees. Therefore, a discharge would now be necessary. Here we from the BZÖ really miss the social answers that this government has to give. We miss – as you always do in Sunday's speeches – the big heart for the micro-pensionists, for the small and medium-sized earners and for the families. It bothers me that you stay in the analysis. You analyze, you take note of something, but you do not act. – This is the accusation we need to make you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from the BZÖ not only analyze, we not only slander, but we have solutions! [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] One of these solutions – presented in the last special session – is our pact for a social Austria. This pact for a social Austria includes the proposal for a cost-effective balance for each budget up to a budget income of €3 000 in the amount of €200. They are still saying that the social partners should do something, and that the social partners need something to be remembered. What is this policy that is hidden behind the social partners and not acting if it is necessary? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – Carinthia shows how to act quickly and unbureaucratically. The second point: Tax relief. We need tax relief now – the tax revenue is bubbling too, the Minister of Finance knows best. We also need tax relief for families in the system by the admissibility of child care and care costs; if that is not possible, then by increasing the negative tax. Act now, ladies and gentlemen, of the government, and not only constantly announce that sometime a tax relief will come! It also needs fair pensions now instead of mogel packs. – Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to ask you: They now explain to us the legal basis on which we are all here in the High House, including the BZÖ, but you have weighed people in a security that is not there with false messages, with false jubilation brochures, with false pensionist letters. They have awakened hopes that have not been fulfilled. The fact that the trouble and disappointment are great now is quite clear. You should have told people that there is an increase in health insurance contributions, that we have so high taxes, which in part devour this adjustment of pensions. You should have said that 690 000 small-scale pensioners under € 724 will only get 1.7 percent more; these are the women in the first place. I think it is necessary here to repair, to act – so that it is finally noticeable. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I therefore appeal to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, as a chancellor of the broken word and half-truths, and I appeal to you, Mr Social Minister, as one who can stage himself great: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] Act now, take note of things not only! We from BZÖ have the solutions – access to make people better!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9548	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:23:22]] Objections against the agenda as set out in § 50(1) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9569	We shall now proceed to the announced debate on the objections of Mr Ing. In response to the agenda issued in writing, Westenthaler is to treat the 369 Supplements Collection Report as Agenda item 3. In the debate under Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit speaking time per speaker to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to 3. We are going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler was the first to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9597	Mrs. Prammer! [[Call the SPÖ:Na, na, na! Madam President.]] Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We have just experienced it live: The live cameras had to be turned off right now. This is a historic act here in this house. I say straight away to you, Mrs Prammer, that I take the call for order that you have given me as an award, because I consider it a shame to Parliament that, as the first President of this House, you have forbidden the ORF, the public-law television, to pass a parliamentary debate on, among other things, the question of care, petitions to the objections we have raised to the agenda. The opposition exercises its right to an objection debate – and you forbid the freedom of the media in this House. This is a unique, unique act that we deeply reject! You can give me orders, as many as you want: When it comes to freedom of the media, when it comes to civil rights, opposition rights, when it comes to having debated objections, because we are against the agenda, when it comes to giving people an information right, I cannot get enough calls for orders, because I will always oppose such censorship that you are doing here today, Madam President. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let us now come to the subject ourselves! We say – and this is the only reason for our objections: The petitions must not be dealt with as the last item on the agenda. Why? Because these are directly democratic initiatives. Look I would like to ask you once more what is contained in the report. These are petitions against child abuse, against violence in the family brought by citizens' initiatives. For example, the petition against the extension of the drug scene in Innsbruck and the surrounding area, handed over by Mr Wurm, is in the process. You want to negotiate it at night. It's a first-class funeral. [[Abg. May. Worm: We did everything for it!]] A petition by Mr Parnigoni for greater security in Graz is also a petition of the Carinthians for the collection of the mother tongue in Carinthia, a petition “without ban is going...” signed by 20,000 citizens. – All of this you want to bring to a first-class funeral by negotiating this report only when it is dark, if no one is there at all. – That’s what we criticize! Mr Cap! In the last legislative period, in 2004 and 2005, we have taken petitions seriously, we have taken citizens' initiatives seriously. Example: The collection report 780 d.a. was in plenary on 26 July. In January 2005 there were 20 agenda items in third place. Or: Parliament adopted a resolution on 22 December. September 2004, Agenda item 2: Collection report 561, d.e.c. We can see that we have put these reports in front of us, because we are talking to the citizens because we are citizens' initiatives because we are something worth direct democracy. You're clearing up that kind of back, you don't care. I also come to the basic point of speaking about what happened in the last presidential term, Mr Cap, Mrs Prammer. I'll stay with you. That was a political extortion attempt that took place there! Formed by Klubobmann Schüssel, supported by Josef Cap and implemented by the President – a triumvirate. It's called: Let's make a package! You either waive the objection debate or sign it, sign it as a clubman, place your signature under the Government Party's plan to ratify the EU Treaty. Only after you sign this will you get your objection debate and a television broadcast. – That was it, put to the point. The result: that the cameras have now been switched off is completely clear. The result: that we don't let ourselves get small – if the FPÖ falls over, it's her problem – that we don't support a mechanism that in the Husch-Fuch process already in a few weeks, starting with 5. February, the ratification of this EU Treaty – without need, without compulsion – is clear. We cannot have this because the vast majority of the countries of the European Union are also doing this ratification much later, without any haste and waiting at least for the vote in Ireland to take place in May. We also want to wait for the vote of the Carinthians, which will take place in spring. Only then can you honestly and seriously do a ratification. The same applies to the National Security Council. As we exercise the legal right to convene the National Security Council – and the Federal Chancellor does not do it, let the time pass. Then we request this again, and at one time the Federal Chancellor convenes it for a day when the Committee on the Interior in Parliament will hold a meeting. Is that all right, Mr. Cap? The Minister of the Interior and the security spokespersons of the parties should actually attend the Committee on the Interior. Whether combo box has an entry – That’s embarrassing, that’s disregard for opposition rights in this house! The Committees also made the following changes: We make a request for a People's Survey, and the government parties are adjourning because in the meantime, they are fast – chicken, pussy! – want to ratify, although the requests for a People's Survey will then become a Farce if already ratified. We therefore think it would have been right to change the agenda. It would be right – and I also demand this for the next time – that, if the ORF wants to be transferred, it is not the President's act of grace, which alone decides whether the ORF is transferring the debates from the High House. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It must be possible to transfer, in principle, if it has to be all day, and not according to the will of the President, who apparently misinterprets the will, censors the media, turns off today's live coverage after the current hour, and throws the ORF high out of the house. That's a scandal, that's what we strongly reject!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9664	Mr Klubobmann, I am aware that you want to broadcast television without any Rules of Procedure. However, I would also suggest to note that there are no restrictions at the speaking time for the members of the government during that time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Better than no TV broadcast!]] Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9708	Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, I would ask you not to justify here a myth of persecution that you are almost the only fighter for the development of democratic culture in Parliament. I'm sure you're not. What this is all about is: As it is tradition, do we all want to agree on rules of play, to the principle of consensus in the process, to the organization, where, as we create the basis here at all, that political work can be done, to confess, or not? It is not a question of making this stylistic tool a stylistic instrument of opposition policy, under the terms of the Rules of Procedure et cetera. That doesn't make any sense! I believe that we should only ensure that there is the possibility of working properly with the principle of consensus. Work by: You, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, were the one who went to the public all the time and said: Parliament is not working! It doesn't work in summer, it doesn't work at Easter, it never works at all! – Then we sit in the presidential and make a work plan – not a ratification commitment plan, as you now represent it, but a work plan – so that the Constitutional Committees can meet in order to hold Hearings, the thick convergence of the reform treaty can be worked through. But what does Klubobmann Westenthaler say? Njet!, he says. In the same breath, however, he says he wants Parliament to work. That can't work! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A whip you want! In eight weeks, you want to whip it through! In eight weeks!]] We have therefore proposed this approach in the Presidential, four parties who want to work have supported it, and there is a party that does not want to work. That's the situation right now. But we naturally invite the fifth party, the BZÖ, to work, because that is our task. That is why we have been elected and, I believe, the committee meetings are also taking place. What did you say to the People's Survey? – The committees must first work, the issue of public consultation must be resolved. - Sure! It will be voted on. That is what we have said in the President-in-Office: Every request in the Constitutional Committee is to be put to an end so that it can be dealt with here in plenary. Of course! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The last time you missed!]] Your vote on the People's Survey will be taken here in plenary. So how is your complaint justified? What's undemocratic? I'll tell you something. I would like to say that television transmits every single minute that we sit here in this House for discussions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tell the President! The President forbids that.]] I'm for that. But it still needs rules. The whole life needs an order or a rule somewhere, otherwise you can not tie the tie forward, but back if you want to live rulelessly. That's pointless! So there must also be a basic principle of the rule here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: media censorship has never existed in this house at all!]] Rulelessness as a stylistic means of opposition policy to transport content is not possible. A Peter Westenthaler must also acknowledge that there is a fundamental consensus here. If the President-in-Office adheres to the rules on how we have done so until now, stand here to the speaker's seat and celebrate disrespect. “Woman Prammer” means as much as: For me, you're not the President anymore. – It is the President-in-Office who has to accept and acknowledge this, and it must be respected accordingly! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] With the culture of disrespect, we are generally harming ourselves, Mr Klubobmann. That's what you're saying. You shouldn't mix everything either. A new date is now being sought for the National Security Council, which will naturally find acceptance. The agenda should be designed in such a way that the members of the government who are to be present can actually be present. So there is a great willingness to cooperate anyway. At first I have to say that the President-in-Office has worked very well here in the house so far on the basis of cooperation – also from your side, Mr. Klubobmann, this has actually worked well. And it's been off for two or three days. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And who is to blame?]] There has been an agreement on today's agenda of all five club directors. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There won't be any more!]] It was so, we accepted it. But then Klubobmann Westenthaler comes and says – not interested in what his own club director says – not interested in what the other club directors say: What interests me is what is happening in this house, I want this to happen what I want! Democracy doesn't work like that! It must be a minimum of... [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I am also in favour of extending minority rights, but there must be rules of play, including for minorities. There must be rules for majority voting, there must be rules for minorities, otherwise Parliament will not work. This is a fundamental debate that we can very much support. I believe that we are obliged to ensure that this House can really work, that this House is able to work. What makes me particularly magnificent is if you want to prevent us from working, because this is our mission, that is what the electorate of us demands. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9841	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9863	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, rules of play that we must set ourselves and that we must comply with – of course! But I'm still going on: We can still talk about the rules of the game, but first and foremost, the laws must be respected. You know very well, Mr Cap, that the National Security Council is called up under a law. It shall be convened if the two Members, two members of the Security Council, require. And you know very well that, although this desire has been put in accordance with the law, the Chancellor did not want to call this National Security Council, but to Peter Westenthaler and to me he sent a lapidares letter, in which he said that he did not consider it necessary, and that perhaps an information of the Minister of the Interior was sufficient. - He didn't call the Security Council! This is unique, Mr Cap! There hasn't been anything like that yet. That's illegal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A scandal! It's a breach of justice!]] You can't say now that the rules of the game must be respected by us. If the Federal Chancellor should comply with the laws, then we can discuss the rules of the game further! [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A breach of justice without equal!]] Keywords: ‘Work’. You said we should work. – Yes, of course! Let us use the committees, for example, to consult the Economic and Social Committee on how we can further boost the economy. Let us use the relevant committees to discuss and advise on tax relief. We can discuss this day and night. But, Mr Cap, what is the need, above all, to start discussions on the ratification of the EU reform treaty in the Constitutional Committee? What is the need for this time pressure? I'm telling you, on the contrary... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Well, please, let's do this in the summer, we declare the Constitutional Committee permanent. I am a member of the Constitutional Committee and I tell you why not now. Because this is the disregard of popular decisions, of popular instruments, of instruments of direct democracy. There are referendums on this treaty, for example in Ireland, and – anyway – there is a popular survey in an Austrian federal state, namely in Carinthia. I know you might be uncomfortable if that's different from what you want. It may be, but you can do it anyway. The result of a popular survey is not binding, but it is the recovery of the will, the opinion of the population. Why do you want to set the signal, the symbol – I ask you why! –: We don't really care about everything you say, on the contrary, we're thinking of complete facts, you can still say that you don't like it or you like it, but we've already decided before! - That's the symbol that's swinging along! You have always said that the decision, the desire of the people, is very important to you, the instruments of direct democracy must be expanded. – People’s surveys have never been conducted at federal level, and you reject such an approach to the EU reform treaty even now. I say again: In terms of content, I can befriend many of this reform treaty, but that is the formal issue. What are the signals for the population? They have called for popular elections to be the interception hunter, and and so. But now to enable and signal a survey: That is important to us, and we want to include this statement of opinion in our decision-making!, you do not want it! This also shows a little bit when it comes to the definition of the agenda, as is now the case. If you say that the petitions and citizens' initiatives – there are important initiatives in which hundreds, thousands of Austrians are familiar with their signature on a subject – will be negotiated at the very end, as the last item on the agenda, and if a group comes and wants to outline the agenda, you feel that this is a violation of the rules of the game. They do not even want to allow an objection debate, even during the television broadcast, although that was often the case in the past. They say: If you want to have that, then it is said to observe game rules! On the other hand, you must sign this roadmap for the EU Treaty! Now I ask you: What do the instruments of direct democracy – citizens' initiatives and so on – have, the demand that they be dealt with in a more prominent way, with the EU Treaty? What does a television broadcast of a debate on care have to do with the EU Treaty? – That is why we are now going first and foremost, also in this debate! This has nothing to do with complying with game rules, it has nothing to do with opposition or government, but it is quite simply about the question: How important are the instruments of direct democracy to you, and how important is fairness here in the House?
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9947	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Schüssel. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e9968	Madam President. High house! I think you can answer what Herbert Scheibner said here. After all, there are several issues that need to be discussed here, and the President is, according to my experience, an area where one can actually talk very consensually and calmly about the most delicate questions: how the house can be organized and how a reasonable – natural disputed – discussion can be handled. But the procedure is usually found in consensus. And to do this – that is certainly not to blame you now, but that is a positive signal – was a proposal by all five club directors how the speaking time can be organized. The television time is limited, as everyone knows, that's four hours. The BZÖ has still had the opportunity to set a special, independent accent with a current hour. Of course, we want to see that care can be discussed, and it was not the talk of an objection debate. Suddenly, in the presidential, this consensus of the club directors is opened, and there is to be an objection debate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can still do that! But can you still do that as a clubman in the presidency?]] Of course, dear Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, you can do everything, only: The problem is that this would no longer have been discussed about care, but that a whole round of word messages from all political groups would have been removed for the care discussion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We wanted it after the care!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How often has it been? How many times has it been in the high house?]] And I have to say quite honestly: You can do that in consensus, but there was no consensus. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many objections has there been?]] We wanted to discuss care, and there has been an agreement between all club directors that we want to do so. It's been opened. That's why you announced the consensus, not we! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] The Second was: Then Joseph Cap made a suggestion to meet you: Let's try to find another way! – I even suggested: Let's try to start at 8.30 a.m., so half an hour earlier! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 7:00! 7 o'clock was a suggestion! - Absurd!]] That was a joke – so you can distinguish between what a joke and what's serious. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It is often difficult for you to distinguish this!]] I seriously suggested that we start at half past nine. – That was also rejected by you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The SPÖ knows that it is difficult to distinguish between what's joke and what's serious!]] Now the second point is coming, and it is already interesting – and in my opinion it is also the very core point –: So far, we have had a consensus that the Committee debate, i.e. the start of the debate in Parliament, is jointly excluded. On the contrary: We have even said that we want each committee to meet at least once in the quarter. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's something else! That's quite another thing!]] It has been criticized – rightly, by the way – that this has not been the case before. And the sense was again: Four political groups presented a work plan for four committee consultations, where hourly debates, expert hearings on the EU Treaty could be conducted. It is simply not true, as it has been claimed here, that no one has yet started the discussions! I can inform you of the latest state of ratification: Two EU Member States have already concluded, they have agreed to the reform Treaty. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, Hungary!]] Nine countries – France, Great Britain, Germany, Slovakia, Romania, Luxembourg, Italy, Denmark and the Netherlands – have already begun the discussions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And when do they close them?]] So we are certainly not the first, we have not been promised anything, but we believe that we want to start and discuss serious discussions now, because there is no “convention” planned, but we have been discussing it for three years – for three years now, please! – the basis of an improved contract. Then one can be, at the end, for it or against it, one can be of the opinion that the consultation of the representatives of the people is not sufficient. – We believe that we will do so as in the previous treaty negotiations: The opinion of the people's representatives is the crucial basis for us. – But you can have different opinions there. But that for the first time – and that is what I think is very worrying – has been tried to block the start of discussions at all, now almost – and I am really saying that consciously in 2008 – a kind of self- shutdown, a kind of blockade of parliamentary deliberations into the room – no, no! – I personally think that is very worrying, and we do not take note of that either! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true!]] [[Call to the BZÖ: But this is under your dignity!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] I also say quite openly to you: I am therefore very grateful for the fact that the chairman of the Wittmann Constitutional Committee, on the basis of the joint procedure of the other four political groups – and I know that you, the BZÖ, in fact, some Members are going along with this line – is doing so in a way that we are now taking up the deliberations in a Constitutional Committee exactly as it is planned, so that the public can also be sure that a serious debate is taking place here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are also misinformed!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go through this! Go through this!]] I really ask – Peter Westenthaler, that is my appeal to you and to your group – that in the future we observe some rules of the game, and this also includes the respect of the dignity of the President, for she has always said so far – and each of us says that –: Television broadcasts, of course, when consensus on the topics and on speaking times is ensured! – And that should also be the case in the future. Let us therefore try to shape the Presidential in such a way that we have this consensus, and to support the work of the Presidents – there are three – in this sense too.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e10197	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e10218	Madam President. High house! Dear spectators at the gallery and at home! [[Calls.]] I would now like to go back to the subject of the debate, namely the Committee on Petitions – it is still being transferred on the Internet! [[New calls.]] This should be noted here for those colleagues who do not yet know. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But they will ban that too!]] But we'll see how long that's gonna last. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It will be banned if...!]] I would now like to return to the main subject of this debate, namely the request by the BZÖ to put item 21 on the agenda item 3, in order to deal more closely with the Committee on Petitions's report, and I would really like to appeal to your conscience to clarify the understanding of your person's duties, ladies and gentlemen, namely your role as representatives of the people. We know exactly how little the people have to do with their concerns directly to our House. Citizens' initiatives and petitions are precisely the most essential and the “most simple means” of bringing their concerns to us, so that we can discuss them here, to discuss in detail. Now, however, topics, really very important issues, at a later hour – I suppose, under item 21 of the agenda, this can happen at some point at 23 a.m. – will be dealt with at a time when it is simply not reasonable for the people, for those who have introduced these petitions or citizens' initiatives, to follow how we deal with their concerns. That is to say, it is really a reasonable request from our side to present this item on the agenda to really discuss these points publicly – and I really use the word “public”, namely, under the eyes and ears of the listeners and listeners. It is important, as has been said, that time, but it is also very interesting, as the government here in particular refuses to follow this approach, and this also fits well in the image of the concept of democracy of this government. We have already mentioned the debate on the EU reform treaty: In Carinthia we have collected the necessary 15 000 certified signatures – certified by the congregations and notaries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auer.]] Mr Auer, you know it very well, we have collected it. . We have the right, the Carinthian population has the right to ‘get’, to express its opinion, to express their critical opinion, and this is also intended to carry out constitutionally guaranteed in the best possible way. [[OBJECTIVES]] The Carinthians have the right to do so! And now – very transparent – the government in Vienna comes up with this: Well, that's going to be a little bit tight now, they've really collected it! – After all, at the conclusion of this signature action, there was a tendency to get through ratification here in the House as quickly as possible. Then you've seen, they really do, and you've said, Let us quickly make a Constitutional Committee, a number of Constitutional Committees, and then, as a model student in Europe, we will immediately ratify this Treaty without questioning the opinion of the Carinthian population! That's the way it can and must not be! The Carinthian population now has a right to a constitutional right to express their opinion to the government in Vienna, what the people want to do with this reform treaty and what they think about it. This picture also fits in, as has been said, this approach to other direct democratic means, such as the way in which citizens' initiatives and petitions are dealt with. On the subject of critical opinion I also noticed the following, when I now listened to the statements by Mr Klubobmann Cap and Mr Klubobmann Schüssel – and this is already very interesting: On the one hand, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, I do not believe that we can use the negative expression "blockade" for this, if we look at the fact that this reform treaty is discussed in a reasonable form, while maintaining a reasonable approach to Members and the subject matter. But that takes time, and the population is informed and involved in this discussion! Mr. Cap, if you speak so warmly of compliance with the rules and rules of the game here, you run into open doors with us, no question, just: The top rule here in this house is: Right goes from the people. – This is also to be taken into account by SPÖ, and SPÖ must also learn to live with this rule of play, and that means taking the people seriously, with their critical opinion on many points – on the one hand, to the EU reform treaty, on the other hand, on their concerns through the petitions and citizens’ initiatives – to take this right seriously of the population and to deal properly with this right of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e10298	Mr Klubobmann is now speaking to Dr. Van der Bellen. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e10320	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the gallery! I am sorry that you are present at this debate, because such a debate is only understood with basic knowledge of the Rules of Procedure – and I do not recommend that you study it in detail now. I am trying to split the debate into those two points that matter. On the one hand, I am with Mr Westenthaler, on the other I am his massive opponent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That is legitimate! That's okay!]] Mr Westenthaler! Of course you can change your mind. You can take back the signature of your club director and an agreed speaking time and agenda. That's your right. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was more often!]] This also happens to us – very rarely, but still. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But it happens!]] That's unpleasant. But if it's rare, it's okay. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There will be no more agreements in the future!]] It is also your good right to change your opinion of last week on Monday and to say: No, item 21 is actually on the agenda as item 3! – That’s your right too. But where it is going to be, Mr Westenthaler, this is the point that, for the whole time we are debating here, a television broadcast was planned and that, as you know very well, there must always be and always be a consensus agreement between all five parliamentary parties – you know that very well. Why does it have to be? – Because the speaking times during television broadcasts differ from our usual Usus, which is specified by the Rules of Procedure on and for itself. This is always a delicate balance of interests between colleagues and colleagues on the government bank, between the government groups and the three opposition parties. It is important that we have this consensus, and you should not put it at risk easily – what You've done it now. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, I have to say: From my point of view, there would have been consensus possibilities. We had just made a brief objection debate during the television season, a very short round. Mr Westenthaler had expressed his concern that four or five others had given their opinion in one round. That would have weakened us for 20, 25 minutes from the care debate, which is also very important. Okay, let's go. That's how we could have done it. – I am so far with Mr Westenthaler. But what is not going on and what I certainly do not like is that, in the case of the Constitutional Committee, the BZÖ Group is running a simple policy of fruitification, running a blockade policy, the last thing is that seven members of the BZÖ want to prescribe to the 176 other Members of this House when they are allowed to debate in a committee and when not. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pull it through!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pull it through!]] Think about what you're doing here! Think about it, please! [[It is in favour of Greens and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pull it through!]] You, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, implicitly pointed out that it has been Usus – and it was a good Usus, and you too are putting this Convention at risk now, you! – that a committee will be convened only if there is consensus between the government groups and the opposition parties that the chairman of the committee does not make it arbitrary. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You've already been paralysing sessions! Remember!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Your committee presidents interrupted the meeting if... did not fit!]] You're forcing us to get rid of this convention, because what you're doing is: As long as the BZÖ does not agree with the appointment of the Constitutional Committee to open the discussion of the reform treaty, no committee will take place! – And if you still think in three years that this is not being discussed, then we are still sitting there in three years and still not allowed to discuss it! I mean, where are we? They would force us – all the other four political groups – in the consequence if we accepted it, someday, one day – this year, next year, on the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day – to make a deadline request, which would result in the plenary having to vote without discussion in the Constitutional Committee on the reform treaty. I mean, such an unfavorable thing seems to us to be BZÖ! - But certainly not with us! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am very glad that President Wittmann will now convene the Committee and that a meaningful debate on the reform treaty will begin. Here to say the ridiculous “husch-puch” – that’s ridiculous! Then: We have been discussing some form of the reform treaty for at least four years. The Constitutional Treaty, which we have ratified here – against the voice of Mrs Rosenkranz, but with the voices of Scheibner, Bösch and so on – differs only in nuances. So we have been debating this issue for four or five years – and you are staggering here from a “huss-puss” process. That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e10490	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e10511	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! There are people who say: The Peter Westenthaler is not sympathetic to me! and that this may have been the reason for making 1.2 percent of the votes for the BZÖ in Vienna only, I believe. [[Call the SPÖ: I'm sure that's not true!]] I am not of this opinion. I am not unsympathetic about the Peter Westenthaler personally. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I must have done something wrong!]] But he has raised political unreasonableness to the principle. That's the Peter Westenthaler's big mistake! [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] Once again it is in favour of Turkey joining the European Union, then again; once again for the EU Constitution, then again against it; once for the interception hunters, then it is re-patched: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With me you will find no such statement!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That is unreasonable what you...!]] “We’ve prevented the interceptors!” – Once he’s gone, once he’s there. Once he says: Adieu, I'll take the hat! – but he didn’t take it, because at that time he continued to cash the Gage as a clubman – then he was back. [[Abg. Riepl: He has no hat at all!]] It is this indebtedness that is to be blamed on him, and it is also this indebtedness that has given him this election result of, I believe, 1.2 percent in Vienna. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I believe you were gone once too! Didn't you even leave once?]] That's, I think, the background. And what the Constitutional Committee is going to do: Democracy only works if one can also talk about a subject. And we want to maintain our referendum. Others disagree. But we want to discuss this in the Constitutional Committee, otherwise we cannot work! [[Call the SPÖ:The question is only when!]] [[Abg. Strache: The BZÖ does not want a referendum!]] How else should we do that? We want to hear the Dr Schackschneider in the committee, to hear what he has to say about this reform treaty. That's democracy! There you will express your opinion, we will present our views, and then we will come to a conclusion. What we do not want is a rapid ratification of the reform treaty in Parliament. We don't want that either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, you have many... – Do you know, Mr Westenthaler, that is [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:...! You're a real naïverl!]] Your level: Wirtshausräuereien – this is your level, yes. When police control the police, that's your level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Colleagues refer to as “Naiverl”, which is your level. Yes, Mr. Westenthaler, that's you. And I know that you have a little trouble because of your great mentor in Carinthia, who insults you as a "struwwelpeter" and so on. That too hurts. - I'm not doing that. You're still kind to me, Mr. Westenthaler. Really! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's how it must come! Something I'm doing wrong!]] Mr Westenthaler, you have also given many good reasons to speak against this agenda – quite certainly. There are many good reasons to treat the petitions before. Only: Then why did you agree to this agenda? - I don't understand. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I don’t have it! I didn't agree!]] Or did this make the club director on his own? Didn't you ask? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There will be no more consensus among club directors in the future!]] – Well, you need to talk to your club director if she works independently and doesn’t even ask the big boss if she can agree. Or was it intention? Did you intend to say: We agree – and then, a few days later, over the weekend, the great insight has come to me, and then I ask for an objection debate so that I can have more time for the BZÖ in the television period!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Isn't it, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler? That's it, isn't it? [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] It cannot be said that all the political groups of this House are in the hostagery of a'minimundus' group, that is simply not possible! – You are not the mayor of Minimundus, and the House is not Minimundus! I would ask you to take note of this. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] One thing I would like to say is what is very, very important to me: I am often, in fact, not the opinion of Mrs Prammer or the Green or the ÖVP – but Mrs Mag. Prammer is the President of this House, and you deserve respect. [[Abg. Stache: It's about style!]] And if we do not take this into account, we are harming ourselves and democracy. Once you become so strong as to be able to set a president, you also deserve respect. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I don't need respect from you! You can do anything! You're allowed to cheat, you're allowed to do anything!]] If you perhaps will, Mr Westenthaler, we will also give you the predicament “President”. But this is a high state function that deserves this respect, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e10749	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. A maximum of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e10770	Mr President. High house! Firstly, on the subject of this objection debate. Of course you can see the composition of the agenda like this, but it was Usus, and it was a good usus that it was proposed by the club directors, here a common path, which was then slightly changed in the presidential, but also changed in consensus or not. I believe that the thought of the current debate is that a group is now ready to put this common ground at risk, this consensus, and to accuse the others of undemocracy. You yourself leave the consensus climate of this house. They're putting themselves in the smelt angle. They themselves do not want to work in this house and accuse others of sloppy dealing with democracy. – That’s not the case! We have always tried to find solutions together. And it's probably the biggest bonus of the President's that you've decided together so far. They now stand outside this consensus from the BZÖ Group and want everyone else to become guilty that they are no longer looking for consensus. – This cannot work, and this is a way that I strongly disapprove of, in particular because it would also significantly impede the work of the committee presidents. We are willing to look for dates that come about in consensus. As committee chairman, we are trying to offer these dates. We're trying to get everyone involved here to meet all the appointments. This is not always easy, but in the end it must not be the case, just as Klubobmann Schüssel has said that you are calling for a blockade here, because you want to have dealt with a different subject, just in the sense of a political group. You can, of course, submit your request for a People's Survey. One will also vote on it, we will also discuss it. But it does not make sense to hinder the work of the Committee, only because you are not likely to get through with the majority of committee members with your request – or to hinder the work here because you want to wait for what is happening in Carinthia. I can't! We can't take into account a Carinthian public survey here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ah so? That's all you know what people say!? You don't care!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] That only affects us peripherally. We cannot wait until any federal country is ready to seek a common way with us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here in the House. Here we have to give ourselves rules of play. Here we have to deal with all the applications – and finally we have to work them out. We have offered five dates, which have then reached consensus, the approval of most of the political groups represented here, and we should ultimately comply with this roadmap. [[Abg. Scheibner: The opinion of the people is only “peripher” to the chairman of the committee!]] Firstly, we must ensure that everyone speaks. Secondly, it is ensured that the public is aware that the public can also participate in these discussions on a really difficult subject, so that the subject can be discussed in detail. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Join the population! Trust yourself!]] And I believe that this public is important so that you too can present your arguments. But if you block that this public can take place, then there will also be no discussion on this issue in the public, and finally we would refuse to do the work we have to do here. We are obliged to do this work for Austria. And we cannot afford to be unable to work through the blockade of a group. This cannot be tolerated by all the committee chairmen because we are being measured at the end of the day by how we have carried on this country. And this is the task of the committees and of this House. Finally, I would like to say to you: Please, don't insult the President! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: censorship president!]] If you insult the elected officials of this House, insult the High House and with it us and me, and I don't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e10878	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e10900	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I fully understand that a small group, which understandably needs to be concerned about whether it will be in Parliament after the next election, is constantly trying to get attention. That is quite legitimate. I also understand that a small group, loaded with this concern, says: I also take the opportunity to make sure that the agenda is a spectacle! I understand all of this, ladies and gentlemen, with the question of what the signatures of club directors should be worth in the future, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There won't be any more! Don't worry! No more signature!]] But I have no understanding at all – I emphasize: none at all! – if as a medial flank protection for today’s objection debate Your Secretary-General, the BZÖ Secretary-General, our clubman Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel calls it “minimalist reincarnation of dolphins”, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Partyobmann Westenthaler, I ask you to come out – you are the partyobmann! – and apologise for the conduct of your Secretary-General! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What has your Secretary-General already said!]] I appeal to my colleagues, and I may say to some, friends of the BZÖ, if your clubman is unable to do so and does not have this last of grace: It can make Herbert Scheibner, it can make Uschi Haubner, it can make Sepp Buchner, it can make Veit sound, but one should come out and apologize for this outrageous behavior of the BZÖ Secretary General. I really do not understand, Mr Westenthal. If you want to completely poison the climate here, then continue this path! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then apologise for the extortion!]] I would like to admit that I have had an objective-constructive relationship to many colleagues in the BZÖ Group so far, I must say, to some, also had a human-sympathic relationship, but with this kind, with this style that is over. That is how we cannot deal with each other in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Come on. You're out and you're apologizing! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then stop extorting!]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the BZÖ has so often stressed the concept of “democracy”: Democracy cannot mean the minority determines what the majority must do. I was in my constituency at a regular table in Zwettl yesterday evening. I would not use the expression here in Parliament, but there a participant said after I told him a bit about what is happening with us: That's where the cock grazes with the dog! – I admit a very “rustical” expression. I wouldn't use them here, but that's the quote of a participant at the regular table in Zwettl. That can't be it either, please! We already have a very minority-friendly Rules of Procedure here. The fact that we have an objection debate initiated by the BZÖ against their own signature is in itself a very generous interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oillinger: The fact that we can even talk is very generous!]] Objections against one's own signature, that's a certain curiosum, but I admit, it's formally in order, and we're also very generous in interpretation when it comes to minority rights. I'd like to admit that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You want to forbid us to speak, that's the truth! First extortion, then ban the word – and then go over it with the majority voting right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, to see the whole thing in figures: The debate is actually on today's agenda, but the main debate is on how we treat the EU reform treaty in Parliament. You have to imagine this: This is an important future project for Europe. That is what we want to deal with here in Parliament for months. There are four political groups, 176 Members who want to do so. And then there are seven Members who don't want it. Yes, believe Do you really think that we can tolerate, even as democrats, that a minority of seven Members here are blocking the work of Parliament?- Oh, my God! That can't be it, Mr Scheibner. They were also Klubobmann once: Would you, as the clubman of a government party, have represented the fact that seven MEPs are blocking the work of the majority of parliament, the vast majority? [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, if it's done well!]] - It can't be! Let me say the following because the news has just arrived: Malta has also signed it. - So we have three countries already. So until we deal with this in plenary, much more countries have already done so. The idea, we have to wait for what is happening in Ireland, we have to wait – probably you got an instruction from Carinthia – what happens in Carinthia is a disparity. Therefore: Let's get rid of instructions from even more important national leaders! Let us be an independent Parliament and avoid such a poisoning of the climate! [[Abg. Strache: A referendum should be ensured! That would be important!]] Mr Westenthaler, once again: Come on. You're out and you're apologizing!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11055	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Glavischnig-Piesczek. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11076	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) One thing before: I do not think that a group here in the House is allowed to allow the debate on the question during the time of de facto television. We have had this more often in the last legislative period, which the SPÖ has also practised, while television broadcasts make an objection debate on the agenda. That's all right. And if there is still one thing to say that one reduces this to three or four minutes per speaker, then there would have been no argument at all to not let this take place here today in the time of television transmission. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the BZÖ.]] The fact that television transmission has not been achieved is solely due to the fact that the ÖVP and SPÖ have made a junkim with all open issues here in the house, and I think this is unacceptable. There are open issues that need to be discussed and one has to resolve them, but therefore lock out the public using them as a pledge is not all right. That's really not all right! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the BZÖ.]] This is a witness to poverty for our house that we are not able to find a consensus here. The other thing: One needs to remain working in this house, something like a handshake quality. And if we can't rely on what club directors agree on, that's a problem. There can be cases, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, where one makes a mistake where one comes up afterwards, something has been overlooked. But this was obviously not the case here. We all know what the Committee on Petitions has been on the agenda for weeks. The only argument that has been added was TV transmission, and then you've been thinking about it over the weekend. That's not really decent. That's very transparent. I've been thinking for days: What about the Klubobmann Westenthaler at once, because he is on and on, otherwise in the presidential sometimes quite loose and actually consensual on the go? I can only explain it this way: The Carinthian election campaign is already presuming its shadows. I'm really warning you: Versions You have this house with the election campaign of Captain Haider, because then we will not take a single step further here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They look like they're remotely controlled by Klagenfurt. Excuse me, but that's the truth. So, on the second problem, this is the Constitutional Committee or the Reform Treaty. Mr Westenthaler and the whole BZÖ and FPÖ Group! What you really lack in this question is credibility. I once again have the Stoneographic Protocol of 11. Withdrawed on May 20, 2005; Speaker: Herbert Scheibner, then Clubobmann of the Freeman, further Eugen Bösch et cetera. This project, which you are fighting with all means at the level of the Rules of Procedure, has been described as “good and important”, as “directional”, as“ great progress”, as “great. ” Those were the words you used. I quote Scheibner: '... no constitution would be the worst in response to the enlargement of the European Union and also in response to the questions of the future'. I would also like to quote Mr Eugen Bösch: It is an absolutely important improvement that is necessary and needs to be made, to be made quickly. I quote: This Constitution must not be ‘hidden’. And on top of that: “This Constitution can be used, because it can also be publicly represented.” Yes, what happened to you in the last two years, that you represent at once the completely opposite position? That's very strange. Now, Mr Scheibner, a good quote, of what you said at the time; They talk here about the questions of referendum, popular survey et cetera and say: There have been a few days, surprisingly late, a debate on referendum and popular survey. - That was on the 11th. May 2005. What should I like now if, in May 2008, a public survey is made on a subject that has been discussed everywhere for five or six years in Carinthia exclusively for a single reason, namely to make elections in Carinthia? What does that mean? It was also very suspicious that Klubobmann Westenthaler had no consensus to say: Okay, we're going to make the committee and move the final decision to May or June in order to have at least some courtesy in relation to this popular survey! That was not possible either. It's just about a single topic: that Jörg Haider can beat a decent Bah oil again in Carinthia, otherwise he obviously can't win elections. That's what he did at the town boards, and he's been misusing the subject, and he's doing it the same way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Bösch, Mr Scheibner, all those who considered this Constitution to be good at the time, I do not think you are so unreasonable that you are exclusively because the head of the Carinthian state gives you something that dictates anything, simply throws convictions or factual assessments on board from one day to another. [[Abg. Scheibner: I need you to listen to me! If you've been listening to me, you'll know!]] I would ask you to return to the quality of the handshake that we need in this House! Otherwise, we can all pack in, we can no longer decide any more in this House. Every group can block any committee if it wants – and that makes no sense at all. So think about your way of doing it so that we have a little bit of work to do!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11143	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I therefore ask all Members to take the seats so that we can reach the vote. I would like to ask those Members who want to take account of the objections, i.e. that the agenda item 3 be a sign of approval for the negotiation of the collective report in 369 of the Supplements. – This is the minority. It therefore remains with the agenda that has been issued. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11176	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11349	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure prior to the entry into the agenda requested urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 561/A(E) tabled at the same time by Dr Van der Bellen, colleagues on ‘Energiewende 2020 – Ausgangsscheidung, Raus uit nuclear power, oil, gas and coal’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a short debate on the reply to the question 1792/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11370	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply to Question No 1973/J by Mrs Dr. Fichtenbauer, colleagues on Chad's deployment and Security Council meeting by the Federal Minister for Defence. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11393	The debate on points 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 6 to 11 and 12 to 14 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11418	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. A day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green and Freeman each 108 minutes as well as BZÖ 63 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This has been unanimously accepted and therefore approved with the required two-thirds majority. [[11:18:39]] 1. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 547/A by Mr Renate Csörgits, Mr Werner Amon, Mr MBA, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act laying down transitional provisions to promote the legalisation of care and care in private households (Pflege Constitutional Act) (430 p.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 552/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues on the establishment of a Federal Association for Care and Care (431 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11476	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first is Mrs Mandak's speech. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11506	Mr President. High house! It's been a year and a half since the German Chancellor said "Schüssel" at the time, and I quote him literally: There is no need for care, the media blew up a topic and asked me for a simple solution. Poor Federal Chancellor – he did not say that. And on top of that: You can't always call the state immediately in case of any problem. The current Mr Klubobmann bowl is unfortunately not in the hall at the moment; probably it would be almost unbearable for him to hear his own words now and here after the end of these one and a half years. [[Abg. Grill: Certainly not!]] It should be acknowledged that, in the meantime, there seems to have been a certain level of awareness within the ÖVP that we are very likely to have a problem. During this one-year period of government, there was a discussion and attempts at a solution that – and this must be made to you as the first major accusation – were largely drawn, worn and influenced by the disputes that take place within the government parties. I don't care about that in many other areas. But in this area your government disputes were held on the back of those concerned, on the back of people who need care, support and care, on the back of their relatives and caretakers, and that is unacceptable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also necessary to briefly limit that we speak here of people who make up around 5 percent of those who need care, support and care in old age. Unfortunately, over the remaining 95 percent will not be discussed. That is to say, this is currently looking for a punctual discharge, an SOS action due to the abuses that are currently taking place. A round-the-clock debate, which would be urgently necessary, is unfortunately not in sight and not on the tapet. It is also true that this round-the-clock care can only take very few. Much has been said about the promotions, about how much the families or the people concerned should get. I would like to point out to you that, together with their funding, which is unfortunately still different in the countries – here, too, the countries are making a clear accusation – the round-the-clock care still costs €1,000 per month for all those they need. And if you now remember that the average pension in Austria is €827, if you remember that the pension of women is on average €692 a month, then we know that the round-the-clock care can unfortunately only afford very few. What is with all the others who cannot use this form of care at all, because they do not have the necessary money or even do not have the necessary space for accommodation, you are unfortunately silent about that. This is not a political issue for you, although the hat is burning and there is an urgent need for action here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today we are debating a constitutional law. And the paradox of the situation is the reason for the law. Here it is not a care-constitutional law, but a care- and care-constitutional law. You say for yourself that it is a law that should apply for quite a short time. Why are you doing this? – To give obvious security. And I tell you, you also cannot give security with this Constitutional Law, for two reasons. There is a group, these are the workers, hardly workers, the caretakers to whom you take all the rights under this Constitutional Law. You don't give them any right, you take all the rights they otherwise have. And I am very surprised that especially those members of SPÖ who are close to the trade unions who have always represented the workers agree here. There is no longer any possibility of requiring retirement periods, there is no possibility of requiring employment protection provisions. They take this right, not to be comprehensible to us, because you are making a constitutional law and therefore no longer possible to complain. [[Abg. May. Lapp: No!]] You know this, Mrs Colleague, and our accusation has also been confirmed by the experts in the Committee. The second point is that you pretend to give the families security and the people who need the care. - You don't give them the security either. You know that there are still possibilities, although very difficult, to try a procedure through the European Court of Justice. And you assume that most of the caregivers, around 90 percent, will be working as unself-employed. And you know as well as we do that the activity of a caretaker, a caretaker in the round-the-clock care is anything but an independent activity. It contradicts on every point of self-employment. You have a client, a client, a fixed service, fixed service times, a very strange task. There can be no mention of an independent activity here. If someone comes and claims that this is actually a self-employed activity, then the persons concerned and their families will be asked to pay for the cash and will have to pay back: Social security benefits, social security contributions. [[Abg. May. Lap makes a no-one's head movement.]] – Of course, Mrs. Lapp! Of course! Take it apart! Unfortunately, you have created even more confusion than clarity. As a basis for any further work in the field of support, care and care for old people, we need a legal claim on it as the first and the highest. It can no longer be that the question of whether I will need care in old age is an individual risk that I can hardly bear financially, where it is about my house that the last savings go on, but care in old age is just as risk as illness, and as such we need to treat it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We know that this will not be possible without large-scale and increased funding. We will also have to take care of this, without further burden on workers, but with a tax on high assets, which unfortunately remains at the lower limit in Austria in a Europe-wide comparison. And thirdly, we urgently need a rapid expansion of the outpatient, part-stationary and stationary facilities. This one is going to fall asleep. And as long as it is not driven forward any faster, it will not be possible for those concerned to resort to other assistance and support than to the round-the-clock care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11598	Next, Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11620	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The field of care and care is an important topic. It employs 400 000 people in our country who receive care money. That is to say, it employs 800 000 to one million people who, as a family, are confronted with this issue every day as well as those in need of care. Mrs Mandak, I would like to ask you: Who has been able to afford this illegal employment before? They are talking about the minimum pensions, because of which you do not think you can afford the current regulation. Mrs Van den Broek. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I believe that the Greens are voting in favour of illegal employment is a new facet of their social policy views. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is very one-sided! You don't get rid of it with blows!]] Care and care are a topic of the future. The previous government has not brought any solution, on the contrary, it has been discussed on this subject rather, as it is called in good Viennese, the Tuchent. There has been disputed that there is a need for action or that there should be rules. One of the first measures taken by the new government under Social Democratic leadership was to find solutions in this area. And this solution offers a new social benefit. This solution was negotiated together with the federal and state governments and put on the feet. Ladies and gentlemen! 100 million €, that may be a small drop on the hot stone for many of you, but I think a new facet in the care and care area has been created here. That's important. There are a variety of offers in the care and care area. I know the Vienna situation very well and I know that in Vienna there is a very dense range of care facilities, mobile services, senior housing communities, at Geriatric daily centers. Ladies and gentlemen! Families do not have to borrow loans if people are in need of care or need care in Vienna. There are, however, representatives in other federal states who only understand in the election campaign how it really looks, and who only extract their social heart in the election campaign. Before, however, it was so, especially in Lower Austria, that families had to borrow loans in order to be able to provide mobile service or accommodation in stationary facilities. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is important for us to talk about this issue, and it is important that today's decision-making ensures the persons concerned: the caretaker that they have a legal job, that they can acquire legal insurance periods, but also the elderly and their families, that they do not have to pay back on previous illegal jobs. In our opinion, insurance protection for hard-working people is a very important social requirement that we set in Austria, but also the safety of older people, that they know that the caregivers, the people come to them every day and that care and care are given in an appropriate quality. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen! But this solution is not enough for us, we are working on other solutions, we are working on the next steps: It is about increasing the care allowance, about new forms of funding in the care and care area, about other classifications for care professionals – I refer in this context especially to people with Alzheimer’s disease – and because there is support for caregivers through short-term care and holiday care. It is very important that we come to a plan together with the federal states, because there can be no differences depending on the state, so that someone in Vienna receives good, functioning care, but in another federal state, in another municipality, depending on which heart beats in the municipality, offers in this area or not. At the end of my speech – ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join me – I have to say thank you to the thousands of relatives, especially women who care for people in need of care every day. We have to say thanks to the thousands of home workers, old and care professionals and the qualified health professionals. We have to say thank you to the workers in stationary facilities. We have to say thank you to the person caretaker in Austria. We have to thank the people who are volunteering for older people in our society. We also have to thank those organisations that work in the care of older people in need of care. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, apart from this thanks, we would like to say to them: We stand on their side and work on other constructive solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11664	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11686	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have heard it briefly – you have to remember it again and again –: The care emergency was adjourned. But you have to sort of cynically fasten that if you want to, there was a nursing amnesia. And from the amnesty one has now passed to the permanent amnesty. First, one has denied that there is an emergency in Austria, has almost had an amnesia, and now one goes from one amnesty to the next, but in reality that cannot be the solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Today, if we want to prolongate the care amnesty with a Constitutional Act, this does not change the miserable situation we find with the care emergency in Austria. There is a need for care, and the Constitutional Act does not change anything substantial, Mr Amon! I am telling you why: because the objective of decriminalisation is not achieved and the protection of legal subjects against monetary claims is not fully achieved. That's exactly what Krux is about the story: There is no protection against labour law claims such as holiday compensation and claims under the Working Time Act and the Employees' Act. In addition, § 153c criminal code, social fraud, of course, has validity, according to which everyone who presupposes social security contributions is threatened with a imprisonment of up to two years. This is, of course, still a subject. If this government now promises people that they no longer need to worry, then you should put others in the law, namely a state liability. One should ensure with a state liability that those concerned who may suffer financial harm in the face of private complaints in the face of the maintenance Constitutional Act may be able to hold back from the state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – That would be an honest way, but not such a dishonest way as it is being pursued here. The problem is, in fact, on the following points: Good care in the case of care and need for care is a task, a social responsibility, a core task of the social state, just as in the case of illness, accident or disability. And, of course, we have to ensure that there is a basic security of supply – an agreement between the Federal Government and the countries within the meaning of the Article 15a agreement, as it is lived in the asylum field. Why not have created social security contributions, and at the end of their life become a care trap for our elderly people in Austria, who have worked for a long time, but who want to take out the last shirt. It is too little to always make a care amnesty and try to repair the stand of 40,000 illegals half way, not even ensuring a complete repair there. But the 400 000 people in Austria, who care for their own family members every day, forget them completely. These are the true heroes in Austria, despite the loss of care money of 20 percent. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And there's nothing to help Mrs. Lapp to say thank you. Thank you is the minimum you have to speak to those 400 000 Austrians who care for their own family members at home every day and give up on a lot of things, who can only be employed half a day or even put up a job so that they can be there for their family members. And then there is a loss of value in the care allowance of 20 percent, where no valorization has been ensured to this day. Before the election, the Social Democracy, but also others, promised everything in this direction. To date, there is still a lack of the increase in the amount of care, the valorization. 20 percent loss of value! These people don't know anymore. This is the core problem that we should solve, but unfortunately you completely fail God. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'd like to hold on to one thing: Of course, the overall financing should not be carried out by the budget of those concerned, but also not at the expense of the caregivers and caregivers. If the funding of caregivers and caregivers is not solid, that is the decisive thing, then, of course, the risk continues to exist mainly on the private side, and that is precisely what we have to see, then, of course, black work is still not preventable, nor will it be a further issue, and we will not be able to combat black work in this area. They argue in all areas, including care and care. Year after year, exactly this care money is lost in value. If we spent and spent 3,046 billion € or 1.2 percent of the gross domestic product in Austria in 2005 for long-term care, despite an increasing number of caregivers in Austria, we unfortunately have to find that is very, very little. This is very, very little compared to other countries, such as Denmark, because in Denmark 2.8 percent of GDP is spent on it, and that is the decisive thing. That's why the system works there. We must therefore also take more money into our hands, which is the crucial factor. It is necessary to invest more money in the field of care and to make available to the caregivers. That is the crucial criterion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to say that once again: We always say that we are one of the richest countries in the world, but whenever there are social problems in our own country, there is no money. This is always the same phenomenon. It seems you don't want to spend any money on it. [[Abg. Amon: How much and where?]] We are always very happy when a disaster occurs somewhere in the world, and the Austrians are happy to donate. And there is also the Austrian Federal Government immediately ready to invest Austrian taxpayers in crises somewhere in the world, including ten million euros for Chad use – and this from our tax funds. But when it comes to our own social policy problems, you are not willing to use this money. This is a matter of targeted expenditure, and it is a matter of setting priorities. For us from the FPÖ, the social responsibility priorities are for our own citizens, who need help and support. Unfortunately, you are not prepared to spend. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think you have to hold the whole thing or draw the conclusion: The social state in Austria is under massive threat! Unfortunately, we have had to observe this over and over again in recent years. More and more people in Austria have less and less. According to studies, one percent of the population owns the first third of the assets in Austria, another 9 percent of the population owns the second third of the assets in Austria, and the remaining 90 percent of the Austrian population owns the third third of the assets in Austria. That's exactly what it's all about: That is where we need to ensure distribution justice. That is what we have to point out over and over again. Today, everything is contributing to the continuation of distribution injustice. Unfortunately, you are not ready to oppose this. 160 000 people in Austria are not insured. 230 000 people in Austria depend on the compensation allowance. And more and more Austrians, as we have already observed in the current hour, are no longer in receipt of their income. This applies equally to pensioners. The pensioners have received such a low pension and now again such a low increase that the ORF pay increase eats up this increase. That's just too little! We have to fight the care chaos, the robbery of pensions and the social cold in Austria permanently. But there must also be a willingness to take money in order to eliminate social hardships and to help people. That is the responsibility of a socially responsible federal government. – But we miss them!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11770	Next, Mr Amon. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11792	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Strache, I do not want to contradict you in everything you have said here today. [[Abg. That's nice!]] If you criticize the ORF increase that is planned, then you have an ally in me and in us from the ÖVP. We don't like it either. I would like to say this clearly here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's great!]] I also invite the coalition partner to assert his influence in that it does not come to this increase in fees. But with that, Mr Strache, I am at the end of our common accords, because to go only according to the principle: [[Abg. Strache: The care adjustment is not your concern? Don't you want to compensate for the loss of value?]] Is the mountain still so steep, a little bit what is going on!, is a little too little. It's too easy to demand more and more. My call, which I have made several times, by asking you the question: How much more do you want and from where do you want it?, you have elegantly ignored, to which you owe me any answer. This is probably because you did not understand it, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: Instead of using Chad, you should valorize the care money instead of pulverizing our tax millions for Chad use!]] The argument you have put in this context is that you criticize what we are doing today, namely thank God for a comprehensive extension of the care amnesty. Criticizing You're here! You are praying, Mr Strache, what your expert in the committee, where you unfortunately were not present, said. But that has actually been disassembled by all the other experts there. [[Abg. Strache: This is completely incorrect! It's going to work with untruths again! This is the method of the Amon: working with falsehoods!]] This legal certainty that we create with it is thanks to God a great deal. And this is a right measure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This Federal Government is acting reliably with this measure, it creates legal certainty with this measure, and thus the uncertainty is put to an end. And that's exactly what it's all about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Mrs Mandak, I have already told you in committee: It's too little to say: We are also for an extension of the care amnesty! It is true that this proposal has also come from the Greens. They also felt that the people concerned, who are already sufficiently concerned with the fate they have met, should not be left in this uncertain situation. But then go here and, on the one hand, criticise the proposal that we government parties have made to this comprehensive extension of the amnesty, because, at the end of the day, no one knows whether any highest court might even find a point that could be resolved, but on the other hand, not a counter-proposal, neither in committee nor here in plenary, to present no variation as to how you would make it better, is indeed too little. I would like to say that clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] I believe that the Federal Government is endeavouring with this proposal – and the coalition parties will decide – to establish maximum legal protection, maximum legal certainty for those concerned. And it's good that this happens. [[Abg. Mandak: But not for employees!]] It is good that maximum legal certainty is established. But if you criticize this, then put in an amendment, put in another proposal! Maybe he's still coming, I don't know. But bring in a proposal as you would imagine how you would produce even more legal certainty than that can guarantee this proposal! If you have a better proposal, give it to me! But so far you haven't submitted one. I am pleased to see whether one is being introduced in the context of this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: A green-blue proposal probably!]] Mr Federal Minister for Social Affairs, there is already some open point in the context of the care discussion, and we should not lose sight of that. We are not yet satisfied with the regulation on the capital limit. While there are federal agreements, I believe that it is not in the sense of those concerned that the national leaders now have a protocol: We welcome an asset limit of €10 000!, because you know that there was the discussion whether there should be an asset limit of €5 000, that there was an agreement on an asset limit of €7 000 and that there are two federal states that, thanks to the provision regarding the property limit, do not even execute. Therefore, I believe that it would be time for us to make an effort to find a united solution. Furthermore, I believe that in the context of promoting self-employed and self-employed care should be equally promoted, because if we look at where there are registrations – this has also been demonstrated by the hearing – we have to note that, as the Chamber of Commerce reported in the hearing last week, there are about 11 000 applications in the field of self-employed care. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: 1,000!]] Sorry! I wanted to say 1 100. Thank you for the correction, Minister of State! – On the other hand, for example, the representative of the Lower Austrian Regional Hospital has reported that there are only 26 applications in the field of self-employed care, according to the state of last week. This clearly shows which model is more effective. That is why I believe that the better model should be set at least as much as the less successful model. That would be my concern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Isn't that a bit cynical, Mr. Workers' Spokesman?]] On the whole, however, Mr Federal Minister, I am glad that this extension of the amnesty will now come to a comprehensive extent, just as Mrs Csörgits proposed before Christmas and as we have always supported it. I think we're on a good, on a right path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e11989	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12010	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! With today's transitional provisions in the Care Constitutional Act, we are in another round of uncertainty on the back of those affected. For more than a year, this House has already been consulted and discussed, with a certain common goal that unites us, namely to find a legal and manageable solution for the 24-hour care. What is now present here as a so-called total package is something that has been added over and over again, but unfortunately not at the right time, but only when the hat has been burned. I must make this accusation to the government parties and to the government leaders, namely that on such a sensitive issue, where human fate is really concerned, common responsibility has not been taken up. One has transported outside that actually not all are sitting in a boat: The government parties are not sitting in a boat, the countries are not sitting in a boat, and this has been carried out very intensively in the public on the back of people. I remind you: ==References====External links== January on the extension of the Amnesty said: We don't need that! Just as every law applies to this law! – So to speak: Basta! That's what I'm saying. The ÖVP has said: We need an amnesty extension of at least six months because the regulations are insufficient! Now one has agreed – agreed on a so-called sponge-over-action. And here I would like to say: In such a delicate matter as care and care for older people, to say of people with disabilities: Swamm over it!, it's actually a little bit of fine feeling. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is basically right to protect all those concerned from any recoveries in the social security field, in the field of labour law. Only: As always, they come up very late and also know very well that it is constitutionally problematic what you decide here now. It is again a law with which you want to create legal certainty, but where you assume it cannot be repealed because it is decided by two-thirds majority. Mr Amon, if you are now saying that this will put an end to the uncertainty, I would like to say: I'd like to believe that. But you know as well as I do that there are still many so-called construction sites that will continue to create uncertainty. Construction site one: Since the review of the Home Services Act, it has been known that the regulations for caregivers are complete, carefree and in many cases practiceable. You know that for a quarter of a year. But only now – and I would remind you that a very brief motion for a resolution has been tabled at the special meeting requested by the BZÖ – does you start to think about adaptations. Ms. Federal Minister Kdolsky said in the committee on 1 January. April is to enter into force. I wonder how this should be possible, especially since there is now also a discussion in the public – and it is also right to discuss it – where it means that it will not be done with a few cosmetic changes. We need models, flexible models that are tailored to the individual care needs of the individual. Your disabled speaker Dr. Huainigg has been very committed and has really put things to the fore. That's why I can't imagine that you're doing such a hustling action again and that on 1st. ==References== Construction site two: There is still no uniform approach to the – in my opinion unsocial – limit of assets. It has been said that there is an article 15a agreement with the countries. Lower Austria and Vorarlberg have already been shaved out. I say: It is good that these two federal states say that there is no limit on wealth. But why don't you agree here and say, That's true for everyone!Unknown term type: "%s".? Construction site three: It has been said that the time limit for theoretical training for caregivers with 1. In July 2008, it was concluded that there was still a certain margin. I have heard in the Committee again: Well, actually, we should move this again, on January 2009! – Again a new discussion on this matter! Construction site four: The different funding from the Federal Support Fund, which continues to be determined and where there is no legal claim and no harmonisation, as well as the different calculations which ultimately cost to care. This reminds me a little of the discussion we have had today about pensions: that there is another promise to the people, which in the end is no longer true. Then: The relief work calculates something else. The Volkshilfe calculates something else. The ministry calculates something else. You have to read it carefully! Then: Actually, these are only the costs for a person, but you only get the promotion if you hire two people. So there are once again uncertainties where, in the end, the caregivers, including the caring relatives, will experience their blue miracle. The last construction site – to name only five important – is the urgently necessary increase in the care allowance. – As with all other things, such as tax relief, only announcements are made. For example, you, Mr. Federal Minister, have been announced that in 2009 there will be an increase in care fees. I say: Maybe she's coming, maybe she's not coming either. I think it is an urgent measure so that people in their usual environment can be well cared for and cared for. All these construction sites mentioned by me show that here is the great manko that you do not communicate with each other in good time and do not create practical conditions in good time. I already have great concerns about the fact that an overall concept, an overall package, is to come if there are already 5 per cent such troubles within the government. These many open questions are not exactly trusting when it comes to setting up measures for the family and for all those who need good care and care. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We from the BZÖ were always aware of the responsibility we have in relation to the need for care to be manageable, that it is legal and that, in particular, caregivers need to be relieved and accompanied. At this point, I would like to say that it was precisely us, the previous government, who had made the social care professions unitedly, that it was we who for the first time attacked the discharge of caring relatives that we had been the first to take seriously the wishes of these people. We said: What can we do about advice, training and support – keyword: Take time – for caring relatives? It is good if this is developed further and if more comes. And it was we who have upgraded the voluntary social year. [[Abg. Oil: Well, yes!]] Even now, we have said that it must be a legal rule. The BZÖ will continue to support a very sustainable care concept, so to speak, from a single source, because we know about the problem that the countries and the federal government still have competences. We from the BZÖ also advocate that care and care are included in a solidarity system. We want people to be not alms and bitters in the field of care in the future. We want higher life expectancy to be a chance and not a personal risk. What we certainly do not stand for from the BZÖ: for party-political power struggles between the responsible government parties, for stagings that go at the expense of the people, and, above all, for announcements that are not observed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12057	Mr Buchinger spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12078	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, my colleague and colleagues! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear listeners and listeners! The topic of care and care is one of the most important social issues – in my opinion even the most important – in the coming years and decades. This makes the demographic development that is most evident to us before many problems in the field of care and care that more and more people need. We know that at present 57 percent of over 80 years of age receive care benefits. We know that the number of over 80 year olds will double over the next 15, 20 years. We also know that in the past there has been a development towards more quality in care and care and that this development will have to continue in the future, because people will demand their right to vote, where and how they want to be cared for and cared for, even more in the future than it is now – and I say: rightly! - the case is. Care and care are mainly provided by caregivers in the around 400 000 caregivers. We must be grateful to these people, including as social politicians, for bringing this strength and this commitment to your family. Mr Klubobmann Strache, you meant that this Federal Government had done nothing for the caring family in the first year of their term of office. That's not true! There you are, Mr Strache – and you apologise; with all due respect! – something about the “Amnesia” you have spoken about is also infested. I can remember that the High House, with the 67. ASVG-Novelle, Efficacy 1. July 2007, especially in this field, has decided to make a very important improvement, namely the full exemption of the caregivers in pension insurance from the level of care V and the taking over of half the staff contributions to pension insurance for those in need of care from the level of care IV. Thus, for thousands of people, for caregivers, the possibility was created that if they choose to care for their loved ones for a few years, at least no disadvantages, no losses will have to be incurred in the pension. And this has to go on. Of course, this development – as in all other areas – has not yet been completed. 24 hour care: This is an area which, unlike stationary care, outpatient and part-stationary care and care has so far been provided as care not by the relatives at home, but by other caregivers, mainly from abroad. This is an area where it has not been legally possible to cover it up to now. The 5 000 to 20 000 households, which have so far used these illegal possibilities, out of need, because there was no other possibility, were in constant uncertainty; the caregivers were also deprived of any social protection. However, this federal government has not looked away, but has accepted this problem and has taken solutions, both in labour law, in commercial law and in the field of promotions. It was the solutions which, due to very different interests, were often laborious and difficult to work out, since the interests of countries and communities, professional bodies, associations and, of course, self-government, social partners and the various ministries were affected. Overall, the task has been done to us, which we have also given ourselves in the government programme, to develop a solution for care and care at home, namely a care that is manageable, legal and quality-proof. We've got one. July 2007 developed a solution that was legalised and thus legally possible: with the Home Care Act and with the amendment of the Federal Care Money Act. We've got one. January 2008, through the involvement of the countries, in part also the municipalities in the financing of this new care and care at home, also ensure their feasibility. With the possibilities and requirements for home visits by qualified care and care staff for each new funding case, we have taken very important steps towards quality with the training regulations, essentially the theoretical training for home help in case of promotion. The Minister of Health will shortly present to the House a proposal for a law extending the powers – under quality monitoring and regulations – so that, in this area, the requirements will also be fulfilled legally, in a manageable and quality-secured manner within the year. As I have heard Mrs Mandak talk about the essential content of the discussion in the Committee: It is true that in the Committee a number of legal experts have discussed with us the impact of the solution that we have proposed to the House with the transitional care and care law. We took this debate very, very seriously in the government, with respect hearing the concerns and responding to them. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Oils.]] I would remind you, Mrs Mandak, that the legal experts, in particular the university professor Öhlinger, have said: What we are presenting here with the Constitutional Act is a clear improvement in the position compared to what was previously possible for those concerned. It is clear that these laws should benefit people because man is at the heart of them and because they are about to convey security: Safety for those in need of care, as well as safety for the caregivers. What we and you are doing here with your decision-making is that in 5 000 to 20 000 households in need of care, we are taking the fears of demand and punishment. These fears may, in part, be exaggerating – perhaps even predominantly – because there have been almost no such demands, such punishment, even in the past, but nevertheless: Security is such an important asset that we also want to ensure this in the best possible form by law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the caregivers concerned, we also provide security, namely social security, because this law – home care, promotion and legalisation – for the first time the possibility of involving care and caregivers into full social security. Health, accident and pension insurance for self-employed persons, including unemployment insurance for self-employed persons. Mr Mandak, you are wrong to say that workers' rights have been involved. – We have considered this, we have undertaken to examine it in the government clause, and have come to the conclusion: We do not want and can not intervene in labour law claims, but only in terms of social security claims. That's a lot. So again: It is that the rules of pay and pay, as well as other, but workers' rights are not affected. Mr. Klubobmann Strache, if you say that this Constitutional Act does not substantially change anything, and in this incident also refer to § 153 a StGB: It is indeed so – Mr Amon rightly said – that this was clearly and clearly rejected by almost all experts in the hearing round in the Committee, because there is no retention of social security contributions only if the service provider retains them, but has not given them to social security. But this is not given in this case. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, it is, in fact, that is not “passion ” at federal level. They know, however, that the countries have completely different views – lastly reaffirmed at the extraordinary national conference two weeks ago – and that the federal government has tried to unite, to standardize, in intensive negotiations with the countries. I can say right and right here that the area of 24-hour care is the area where the benefits are paid. Weitem gives the greatest degree of standardisation and harmonisation within the services of the countries and the federal government. However, I very much regret that you have formulated it as an accusation that two countries, known as Lower Austria and Vorarlberg, have been cut out of this consensus of total standardisation, and I hope that in the next few months – perhaps after the elections – they will be able to achieve an even greater degree of harmonisation. [[Abg. Strache: After the election, the ÖVP will also be there!]] Similarly, the demand for harmonisation, for equality in the promotion of self-employed and self-employed people in this area. In your argument, however, you have to think about a step: In fact, almost 1,500 care conditions are legalized today. In the government, we adopted the following budget negotiations: 80 percent self-employed, 20 percent self-employed. – In fact, there are now more than 90 percent self-employed in this area, and not quite 10 percent self-employed. This indicates that the self-employed model is, in any case, the more attractive in terms of promotion, therefore: Why do you need to promote it even more? – On the contrary: We need to consider whether we can make it more attractive not to promote the self-employed model, not financially, but through organisational involvement in support associations – which is given as a possibility in the domestic care law. For me, as a person, the main discussion is whether care and care are done on an independent or self-employed basis, not as a priority, but as a secondary one, because the important thing, I think, is that we agree that care is done, because this is an important right for the people concerned, so that their freedom of choice, also at home, is legal, is manageable and can thus be guaranteed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is true that we have not found a solution to all the care and care problems, but we have found a solution that is more widely accepted: for something for which there has been no legal possibility so far. We will work together – and do so already – on solutions in the field of care money-valorization, the creation of a structure to provide sustainable, new and innovative support for care security. We will also work out solutions there. We are – in many discussions with countries and other ministries – in order to achieve an even greater degree of standardisation in the field of stationary, outpatient and part-stationary care. We are also dealing with the special problem of the classification of children and young people and dementia, where we are already very, very far. Overall, we still have a wealth of challenges to overcome. But after what we have done in this field in the last 12 months, I am confident that the next steps will be taken. I too wish that this could happen with fewer disputes than in recent months. But, ladies and gentlemen, please do not focus your attention on the process of creation, which was accompanied by some miston, but instead, and together, focus on the result! And there you see: This result is a good one and is being used by more and more people. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12169	Next, Mr Spindelberger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12190	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened quite fascinatedly to Mrs Haubner's speech, also as you have shuddered about the social policy of recent years. – This has also led to the need to amend this law today, because you have promoted the illegality in the care sector. [[Abg. Dolinschek: That's not true!]] [[Calls of the Abg. Haubner.]] It is precisely with this law that it is finally agreed that the various administrative penalties, the contributions to social security, which last until 31. To be paid on December 2007 would have been deemed to be limited if the registration of the care staff was made by the end of July 2008. Thus, contrary to your words, many uncertainties that have occurred in the past, on the one hand, for the miners, on the other, for the caretakers, are put on a at least more legal basis than before. But this also requires very, very comprehensive information. If I have heard this right now, Minister Buchinger, from next week in the federal states of Vienna, Styria, Burgenland and Salzburg, there will be these one-stop shops, which will enable the insured to obtain comprehensive information. I am really glad that there is an information campaign on the part of the Ministry of Social Affairs and that the Austrians can tell the experts about how this is really done with the 24-hour care at home we are talking about now. What hurts me, however, is that a comprehensive information is happening once again only in those federal states where there are SPÖ country leaders. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I mean, these are the issues that affect everyone. It always happens to me when I listen to these sticks that come from different parties that the motto prevails: boycott instead of cooling. You should also think about it in the government. In my opinion, it is now becoming apparent – and I am glad that Federal Minister Buchinger has not been able to get rid of by these debates on the extension of the amnesty – that it has been better to take action to find a system that makes it possible to offer a 24-hour care at home. Surely everyone will understand that we cannot speak of the SPÖ of an illegality which has so far dominated, because then we would all be unbelievable to discuss it on the one hand – we hear this on a daily basis also on radio and television – with which financial problems the health insurance companies have to fight, but on the other hand we would encourage black work by a re-examination of the amnesty regime. I wouldn't have understood that. Therefore, I believe it is really more sensible to adopt a law in order to give greater legal certainty to both the needy persons and their relatives in this situation, and to eliminate many of the existing uncertainties with this law, or to frighten these people that they could do something wrong. Federal Minister Buchinger – as I have already mentioned – has made available once a week to teams of specialists in the Federal Social Offices and the District Head Teams starting with February 2008, offering great services in this regard: from consulting, commercial application to the question of how to promote – and all of this in one place. But, as I said, I am sad that this is only happening in those federal states that have SPÖ heads of state. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: This for the third time now!]] Therefore, my appeal to all the heads of state also to the other federal states to participate in it – and again: It would be better to act together instead of blocking. That would be good for everyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12271	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12292	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It doesn't have to be all bad what a government proposes, and we didn't say that either, Minister of State. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] Of course, in this so-called "care" Constitutional Act, which you and Mr Amon, who is not now inside, are also proposing, you would not just put these provisions in the constitutional order. The following should have taught you or at least shown this debate last week: All constitutional judges – up to Dr. Kostelka, popular attorney – believe that such a constitutional law is really a sin if you do so right now, after you have made a so-called “constitutional adjustment” in a Huschpush action at the turn of the year. – Even more so where you said at the time: We now stop putting something with two-thirds majority into constitutional immunity, where this is not necessary. And Zack, two months later, it happens for the first time again that something is equipped with a constitutional provision, where it is not useful to do so. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: Why not?]] Why not?- Oh, my God! Mr Federal Minister, I hope that the debate in the Committee has shown you this, because the Constitutional Journalist who was present there, Mr. Professor Öhlinger, has said that even the two-thirds majority with whom you now decide on this care law, this care and care transition law or the care constitution law, as you would call it, does not, under all circumstances, protect you from the fact that the Constitutional Court could remove these constitutional provisions, as it has already done. That, Minister of State, should give you some thought. - That's the one point. So Öhlinger clearly says: Even if certain provisions are lifted by the legislator in the constitutional rank, under certain conditions that Öhlinger does not wish to exclude under this law, the Constitutional Court may say that this does not correspond to the Constitution. And even your two-thirds majority cannot protect against it. - That's one. The second, where we all agreed, including government parties, is that, of course, these provisions, even if you want to make the overall impression that this will achieve maximum protection, do not protect those affected – in this case, nurses – from asserting their rights under civil law. They can assert this at any time by civil law; there will help you with a constitutional provision – thank God! – not over it either. Thank God, you have to say, because that would really be the worst thing if you said: We are making a constitutional provision, even what the labour law situation is going on – which you have obviously thought about – and then people can't complain at all! - But, okay, let's leave that. Federal Minister Buchinger, you said this so beautifully: Let us not look at this process of creation and the excitement, but let us look at the result! – I tell you, Minister of State: For the third time in a year, we are now holding a change in this bill around 24 hours of service – and you say there is security?- Oh, my God! The experts in the Committee have said that we need the next amendments, and they have already been announced by you. And I can already mention the next few changes: They will then be necessary if, after the elections – and you have already said this yourself – individual federal states once again declare their willingness to discuss a common settlement at asset borders or in grants. Then we have the fifth change. And then you tell the person concerned that there is security when all two, three, four months change?- Oh, my God! – I am not saying that you are to blame, Federal Minister. But that you go here and say that's all right, that's the wrong thing, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Allow me now one more; Mr Amon is not here. I think it's almost amusing – but you'd actually have to say "cynical" – if the employee spokesperson of the ÖVP says: Please go, dear people, we don't want to have people employed here anyway, let's be glad that they're employed as self-employed, because then ÖVP's employee spokesperson does not need to take care of their working conditions. – This is cynicism, ladies and gentlemen! They all know quite well that the regulation for self-employed people will probably not consider that many – perhaps not all – of those employed in the care, if only they would be charged, would be classified as self-employed, because the activity is simply one that can only be described as such. And go there and say: Okay, let's be glad we have the model of self-employed, because then we don't need to worry about it, and who knows what is in two or three years, who knows whether the ÖVP is in government in two or three years, whether the SPÖ is in government – behind us the flood, the main thing, we have something for the moment!, that's too little for us! Second point addressed to Mr Lapp: If Mr Lapp accuses us that we are for illegalization, then I can only say that is a staircasenwitz. You may be able to take care of yourself, Mr Lapp, but otherwise no one will be able to imitate this argument. We have always said that we are in favour of legalisation, we are in favour of extending the amnesty – but not because the amnesty is the goal of the whole, but because it is essential to create legal certainty. Unfortunately, Mr Lapp, you did not follow us on this request, but only at the last minute did you wish to have something like an amnesty – “foam over” or whatever. But if you, Mrs Lapp, also say: What do you have to do with green people? The illegal care previously has also cost money, since it is legitimate that it now costs something as a legal one too!, then I have to tell you... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] If you also blame Mr Mandak for confusing average pensions with minimum pensions in calculating what the whole costs, I must tell you: They obviously did not realize the difference for themselves. The average pension of women – the average pension of women – is not even €700 in the ASVG. The average men's pension is a little over €1,000 in the ASVG. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] And now, Mrs Lapp, we are expecting whether it is possible to pay 1 000 € and the care level 4 the 24-hour care, with the average pension. [[Abg. May. Lapp: How was it before?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It never goes out! [[Abg. May. Lapp: How was that before?]] The Minister can, even if he still has such a great deal of tax law and what do I know everything else... [[Abg. Keck: First you have the promotions...!]] I am not talking about the illegal states now; we have always been stunned and clear against the illegal states, Mr Keck. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We were against the fact that the ÖVP said there was no need for care. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But we were also against the fact that the Federal Minister, when he was still Landesrat, said the same thing: There is no care emergency in Salzburg. He has also said that, and many others have also said, as Mrs Haubner has said: There's no need for care, nothing we see, everything's okay, everything's in butter. But you, Mr. Keck, accuse us of allowing ourselves to claim higher cash benefits for the people who cannot afford it? – This is indeed a staircase of history that social democracy accuses the Greens that they are working for the poor and for the socially weak. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck]] That's absurd! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Fight with us together, Mr. Keck, that the people who have to live from €700, from €800, from €900, from €1,000 pension – that is the vast percentage of those who are affected by this 24-hour care – can also afford a 24-hour care if they need it! That doesn't guarantee the model! It is now legal, as the Federal Minister has said, but it is not quality guaranteed, at least not in all areas. I admit something's going on. But quiet for everyone? – Neither the self-employed nor the self-employed form of 24-hour care and the grant scheme! You should consider for a long time how you can work on improvements here, not against the opposition, but together, at least with the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12460	Next, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12481	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! High house! If I follow the debate in this way, I have to say: It's all about security. And: Who doesn't want security? - It's safe for each of us. Legal certainty is always important, but especially – I believe we are all in agreement – for older people. That is precisely why it is important to eliminate the risk of penalties and repayments in the 24-hour care. That's exactly what we want to do today: Home care is now fear-free zone! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Not at all!]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen, how does that look? – For Mr Klubobmann Strache, who meant that this law would not be the best possible way of ensuring security; I report from the Committee: The majority of experts clearly felt that this law creates security, it brings a fear-free zone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Don't vote at all!]] For all listeners who do not know what we decide: What exactly does the new regulation look like? – If you register nurses or caregivers by the end of June, you have nothing to fear. There are no repayments, from any authority, no recoveries from social security, the financial office. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a major step forward, a very substantial progress towards the situation four weeks ago. The use of the EIA for the freedom of punishment has paid off! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I very much welcome the statement made by Minister Buchinger: Let us not look at the way, let us not see how a solution has come about, but let us evaluate the solution! And this solution is a very good one! Great admiration for the wisdom of the elders! Seniors' Association and Pensionist Association have fought together for the interests of the people. This is an example and this is also proof: It makes sense to work together for a good solution, without any dispute. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Oellinger, I take your criticism of the Constitutional Regulation seriously, but: For me, man counts more than technical implementation. [[Abg. Mandak: It's about people! To the caretakers! These are people too!]] I am convinced that it is not important for people to be free from punishment. It's important what she's bringing: She'll bring security, she'll be scared and worried. [[Abg. Mandak: It is also about the caretakers, Mrs. Colleague!]] This Constitutional Act builds a protective shield around all those who need this shield. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion also shows that the topic of care and care concerns us all. The need for care can meet each of us very quickly, and therefore care and care must be manageable for all. We want to get involved in this. There's a lot of callers at the senior government who don't understand: Why do you get a promotion in one federal state, but in another federal country, in a nearby place none or a low one? Why is there an asset limit there? – As a Lower Austrian, I am particularly pleased about the Lower Austrian model. In Lower Austria, where the social warmth is at home, there is no limit to wealth. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Anyone who needs a promotion gets support. Seniors also complain about many ways of administration. It's nice that there are improvements! We also want to protect older people from bureaucracy. Therefore, it will be possible for a single authority to deal with legalisation in the future. All in all, ladies and gentlemen: The Federal Government today – and we should all say this – makes a good offer, an offer of caretaker and caretaker: Take the step into the legality, you have no punishments and no repayments to fear. We guarantee you today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12607	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12628	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Aubauer, Mr Pröll, stands for much, but not for social warmth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is a bold statement, even if one now tries to present him on posters as a nice older master. I think he certainly has other qualities, but social warmth – no, that certainly not! [[Call to the ÖVP: He has all qualities!]] In his statement, Mr Buchinger said that much remains to be done in the context of the care solution. – This shows us that the optimal solution, a satisfactory result has not yet been achieved. Nor does this amnesty, which is being continued and re-decision today, really give no security, for example in the case of a claim for recognition of insurance periods. This means that we really must be careful not to weigh people in false security. This security does not exist for those concerned who move in illegality, so we need this legal, manageable and practical solution. Mr Amon said in his speech that the opposition should also make proposals. – In this area in particular, the opposition has made very, very many proposals and has shown how the solution of the miscarriage can take place. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: These were very good suggestions!]] That was an accusation that was not very fair. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Excellent suggestions!]] As a result, all the opposition parties have been very, very intensive in the debate. I think I have made more than 20 requests concerning these miscarriages, and I would ask you to take note of that. Now we know that despite the so-called “one-stop shop” principle, there are, of course, major obstacles to those affected by the self-employed employment of caregivers and caregivers. Everyone who is a businessman and employs staff knows that all of this is naturally linked to an administrative, bureaucratic effort. We have therefore made the proposal to set up, for this purpose, a Federal Association for Care and Care, which frees those concerned from this burden. I can then employ my trustee, who is employed for me as a caretaker, as a cooperative, as a user in this cooperative. There you will take care of everything: the payment of wages, the replacement of holidays, the replacement of sickness, that is, the whole area around which is necessary, also the employee pension fund, in order to do all that is to be done in the context of this care and care activities on administrative, bureaucratic expenditure. In addition, it would be possible to organise training, training, further training through this cooperative and also to work closely with the AMS. Quality assurance would also be ensured through cooperatives, and all of this without profit-making. Because we don't want to take money away from the affected people. We want to organize, administer, make life easier for them and make no profit. The Federal Minister referred to the possibility of acquiring pension insurance periods if you are a member of the family. This concerns 400 000 people. You have not said that there must be quite certain conditions here – or have you mentioned these conditions? But you have not said that this support is only granted temporarily, because it is obviously assumed that after some time the problem resolves itself biologically. I believe that it would be necessary to ensure permanent and independent of the care level service providers and staff contributions for those who care for family members. That would be a very, very important measure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take this opportunity to make a request – but I have taken along the wrong request; I would like to bring my documents – a request concerning the disabled who depend on a vehicle. You know that when a disabled person buys a vehicle, a certain part of the purchase price, namely that part of the NoVA, is reimbursed by the public hand. Now we have the situation that if a disabled person buys a car around 20 000 € that consumes a lot of fuel, he also gets a lot of money back because the nova is higher. The second disabled person buys around €20 000 a car that is fuel-saving on the road and gets a smaller amount back because the NoVA is smaller. That is why we want to propose that we leave the NOVA and give a fixed percentage of support here. This percentage should, according to our ideas, account for about 20. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be a useful solution in order not to treat people with disabilities, who also have environmental concerns, worse. Finally, I can tell you that the valorization of the care allowance is a major concern for us. Therefore, on these two requests that you find by us today, namely the request concerning the establishment of a Federal Association for Care and Care, and the application concerning the valorization of the care allowance, we will call for the vote to be taken for the afterworld, who now stands for a valorization of the care allowance and who does not and who also stands for this Federal Association for Care and Care, and who opposes it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12723	Mr Van den Broek, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12782	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12803	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! On the question of the creation of a federal association for care professions, I think it is necessary to point out that we have very, very many organizations – relief work, folk assistance – which in principle already offer these things and also do not work massively profit-oriented. And if we have looked at the press releases today, we have read that the deacony celebrates, for example, the one-year existence of a housing community in the Evangelical school tomorrow. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What makes sense...!]] That means there are a lot of providers. I believe that the nursing community would be an additional achievement, but we certainly do not need it in this system. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We want to create an extra-party!]] What we are discussing today is the creation of a legal model for 24-hour care at home. The fact that we have a few more steps to take has also been said by my previous speakers. One step that we still lack, but which must come to Bälden, is the question of the activity profile that these caretakers should have at home. There is a motion for a resolution tabled by us from the last meeting, which calls on the Federal Minister to proceed until 1. On April 1, a change to the GKG will be made to extend the activities for these caregivers in the Home Services Act to include nutrition and personal care. At the same time, in recent weeks, colleagues Huainigg and Professor Mazal have also called for the upgrading and expansion of these activities – and that was literally – medically related activities. Now I know that we too have already discussed the question of “medicine administration – yes or no?” But in this request or in our request is much more inside: There is the laying of catheters inside, there is also explicit mention of suction and the gastric sinew. I also know very well that there are models in Austria in personal assistance, where excellent training is done and people are trained and certified for exactly these activities at exactly this one patient. I know about two cases where this happens: For peritoneal dialysis, the AKH has a training for personal assistants who work perfectly. The second is the long-term breathing, where the Otto Wagner Hospital makes the trainings exemplary. However, I took this from an interview with Mrs. Dr. Hartl, who is doing these trainings, and in 15 years, 1,000 people were trained. We speak against it – depending on how the calculations are made – of between 5,000 and 20 000 and 30 000 who are usually cared for by two persons. In other words, we have to expect a massive training effort in the next few years. It will be one of the great challenges for us to see that we will also create this grate migration, namely a quality assurance for the caregivers as well as a liability guarantee for the caregivers in the near future. Therefore my appeal to Mazal: I understand the demands. On the other hand, I know Mazal, especially in the field of medical education, as someone who is always warning young colleagues about it, to attack something for which they are not really well trained, and who always keeps the liability issues in their hands. The requirement is legitimate, but I would like to see that we really ensure that quality assurance works in such a way that caregivers are then not exposed to liability issues. It's clear to us: We want clear training standards. We want there to be a case- or care-manager, who will take care of the case from the beginning, but also continuously assists, so that there are also opportunities to respond if the caretaker has problems, as well as if the caretaker has problems. At the same time, quality controls must also be carried out by them. It is clear to us that it would not be responsible to leave the caring and cared for people alone in this situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12853	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12874	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners! Mr Sozialminister, you have said that the care sector is the most important social policy area for the next few years and even decades. – Mr Federal Minister, if you really think so, then I do not fully understand that there is so much disagreement between the government groups. One does not like to the other something one or the other suggests. I am very well aware of the fact that the whole of the care sector has a certain problem, as a social politician. All of us who work in this area, of all the political groups in the House, which we have organised and discussed together in recent years, know that the number of people in constant care will increase in the future. 80 percent of the caregivers are cared for at home. The population structure has therefore changed. Of course, it is also very, very many women no longer at home to run only the household, but they are employed. This is quite normal in today's times. Also the spatial distance from apartment to apartment makes the whole of course difficult. For years now, we have also known that we will have to take more money into our hands for the care sector in the future. We have always pointed out in our time, when we were responsible, that there must be an increase in the care allowance. It was a social policy milestone when we introduced this in 1993. We are in favour of this being finally valorized, Minister of State! We're limping in the back! In particular, caregivers and caregivers must be supported. There's no way through that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are now different forms of support for self-employed and self-employed care, an amnesty for illegal caregivers, which is moved from one date to the next and then extended again. And one throws one in front of another: Well, because the amnesty has been extended, the promotion is not accepted. The other answers that the promotion in the field of self-care is too low and is therefore not accepted. I'm sure there's something true about both of them. In fact, however, we should all work together on a model so that something reasonable comes out for all those in need of care. The current care model, Mr. Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, is still very unclear. Much of what is needed by those concerned is not or is not directly covered by the reform. Constitutional lawyers also point out that, in the case of self-employed and self-employed care, there are different forms of support, different burden on promoters and also different asset boundaries. I am at all in favour of the abolition of this asset line. There are two federal states, Lower Austria and Vorarlberg, which will not accept them. [[Demonstrative applause by Mr Kainz and Mr Rädler.]] I think this is excellent, but this should be extended to all of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What about Carinthia?]] Furthermore, the whole of Austria should be regulated equally. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How is this in Carinthia? In Carinthia you have to put it through once!]] And the labour law provisions, Mr Sozialminister, also have a number of weaknesses: A clear definition of the activity in the self-employed model, i.e. the powers of caregivers and possible rights against relatives remain in space. There's a flicking work left out. Now you want to raise this flickwork to the constitutional rank. With the two-thirds majority, you can of course do everything here, but it's just like this: They fall back to the party political pro-por, to the red-black pro-por, and with the two-thirds majority you will now simply go through it and thus actually kill parliamentarianism. No Court of Justice can challenge it, nor can Parliament. What we need, esteemed members of the Federal Government: We need safety for caregivers and nurses. We need a socially just and sustainable care in Austria. In my opinion, financing a 24-hour care plan over a care fund would be the right thing to do, a support to the caring family and the abolition of the asset line. A teaching profession needs to be installed and a federal uniform scheme created so that the same right applies to all.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12938	Mr Bartenstein spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e12959	Mr President. Dear colleague Buchinger! Dear colleague Kdolsky! Mrs. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! No, Mr Dolinschek: Nothing that has to do with the funding model is set out in the Constitutional Provision, but only in terms of the suspension of criminal provisions, which ultimately also has to do with the abandonment of requirements. I would like to point out this difference. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the right thing is what Dolinschek said, what Buchinger said, also from my point of view: It is the topic of care probably the last, hopefully last major construction site in Austria's social affairs, and I think we are on the right track to get to the edge of this construction site now and make good progress. One thing is perfectly clear: When we talk about the topic of 24-hour care, this is a segment of the whole, an important segment, 5 percent, some say. No one should think that this would be an overall solution to the challenge. Apart from that, this challenge, as Mr Buchinger has already said, is not only a qualitative one, but above all a quantitative one: the demographic development, says: what happens to our society in the next few years and decades, for example, even if the willingness to care for families, family members only slightly falls. That's what it's all about. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who were the same as me and colleague Buchinger at the expert hearing in the committee could see – and this was positive for us, from my point of view surprisingly positive – that not only experts such as Marshitz, but also spruce builders from the liberals, but also Professor Öhlinger in this care constitution law have seen a significant improvement or – I quote Professor Öhlinger literally – something that is a bit better than the old amnesty. Not that Professor Öhlinger, as a constitutional judge, would not have said what he could have imagined differently, for example, the explanations are going through step by step, but these improvements have been noted. As far as the funding model for the discussion is concerned, we are now in the phase where the practice will show whether this funding model exists the “evermost”. In principle, I am confident. From my point of view, it is completely secondary whether the self-employed or self-employed care will be the model of choice. It seems to be heading towards self-employed care. This probably has something to do with the costs, it probably has something to do with the practicality of dealing with the smaller bureaucracy, but a fundamental question should not be that for any of us. It is also important that the well-known NGOs, such as aid, public assistance, caritas and other related offers, submit. These are also those who understand something of it, there is no need for cooperatives. Certainly not! Where Minister Buchinger and I obviously do not agree, the issue is the limit of wealth. They regret that Lower Austria and Vorarlberg have been carved out here. I myself was with you at the national conference. Yes, it is true that the countries do not agree on this point, absolutely not agree. It is also right that at least once the national leaders represented have said that they do not want € 5 000, not € 7 000, but € 10 000 as an asset limit. Vorarlberg has, of course, remained at his position: No asset limit! It is then politically clear that what you have now granted to the countries in the Article 15a Treaty, namely, a possible negotiation of another or even the abandonment of an asset limit, must now be open to everyone else after you have concluded with Lower Austria and Vorarlberg. Politically, then, this is an option that the others now have. If Salzburger Landtag goes in this direction and if others think about it, I support it. However, I do not underestimate the concerns of the others who say, for example: As long as care is part of the social assistance and social assistance cannot be achieved without regress and consideration of wealth, they see difficulties in demarcation with the care in the home. I don't want to underestimate that. As far as the level of funding is concerned, I refer to the expert Marschitz, who in the Committee has pointed out that it would be preferable for him to grant not only part or part, but 100 percent of the legalization costs of care at home, as Marshitz said. And exactly in this direction, what Vorarlberg and Lower Austria provide in support is going to increase respectfully, namely €1,000 in the case of self-employed, €500 in the case of self-care. That's what I'm gonna give you. In terms of one-stop shop, we are a good step further. Mr Spindelberger, I do not understand you if, in this very constructive and consensual debate, you are trying to change small political money, it was Minister Buchinger, who in my present time thanked the Tyrolean head of state for the fact that the Tyrolean model of the one-stop shop was also exemplary for the application in other federal states. And just too scurry will be your argumentation, dear Mr. Deputies, if you can read today's newspapers, that in the well-known case of Carinthia, Carinthia, who was not ruled by a SP country captain, was at the presentation of a one-stop-shop-model yesterday by your Carinthian country partyobwoman, Schaunig-Kanduth himself. So: What in Tyrol, which is already in practice in Carinthia, you should not underestimate that, even in the context of a plenary debate. It has been pointed out several times – and I would like to thank Mrs Oberhauser for the very differentiated statements – that Mrs. Kdolsky and her people are working intensively on this – but she will then take her own stand – to bring things forward in order to give caregivers more opportunities in terms of body care, food, administration of medication. I think that this is a very, very important next step to move forward in matters of 24-hour care. Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a goal. I don't want to talk about vision, because that would be a good thing for me. A little too far away. I come back to what Mrs Mandak meant, among other things. She said: Care in old age – mostly in old age, not only in old age – but care in old age, you said, be as risk as illness and should be treated in this way. I mean, we should think together, and this is not to make short or medium-term, but in the long run, all of us, to get the care out of social assistance, to deal with care in a way that Mr and Mrs Österer do not first have to become a social case before the full spectrum of the then very, very good instruments is available. I know that this is linked to considerable financial resources, which requires great effort, but I do not want to let this happen in the sense of a long-term objective. And I am not the only one who wants this important social and at the same time future issue to be dealt with in such a way that I still experience that this is no longer part of social assistance, but is at least treated similar to the health and disease risk in that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13032	Next, Mr Donabauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13053	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think there are few parliaments, perhaps there is no debate on European soil or on the world in which social issues can be debated so intensively, but also as forward-lookingly as we in Austria. And I therefore do not fully understand why so often criticism occurs, which would not have a wrong situation. I do not fully understand the use of terms such as social cold or similar assessments, because we can say with fug and right one: About 29.5 percent of our gross domestic product we apply to social matters. This is almost as much as the Federal Budget proposal. Social policy has a good tradition in us. Through many years and decades, the political parties and above all my party – of 53 years in the Second Republic, we have been actively involved in the design of social policy for 38 years – have brought in our interests, our goals, our ideas, and have thus achieved in truth a situation that we can present today. Social policy must provide security, be manageable, be effective and reasonable and must be understood above all over generations. It doesn't make sense if we position ourselves here and make demands, at the expense of others. And social policy is not only a question of men and women, of political colors, but it is an issue for all citizenship, for all generations, yes for all of us. Mr. Bundesminister Buchinger, in your statement you meant that there are federal states that have been shaved out; I know that you have presented this positively. This is possible without further delay in the context of the Article-15a agreement. And if Niederösterreich and Vorarlberg have made a requirement here, because we have just questioned and examined the feasibility again, that can, I think, be an example of the remaining citizenship. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For all those who do not come to terms with the present template: Ladies and gentlemen! We then advise and adopt a Federal Constitutional Act with transitional provisions for the promotion and legalisation of care and care. What is formulated by this government is not only tangible, but it is also ready to decide. This is something we really find out of everyday discussions and to an effective application. This is the end of the day. I hope and hope that in the next few days and weeks we will also be working hard on the implementation as such. If today and here it has been said that there are still significant open questions or unachieved goals, allow me to conclude two more considerations. I consider the definition of care to be a very important topic. We have to deal with this in the near future, because it can't be that today in press interviews, in radio interviews or no matter where there is a philosophy about it: What can one and the other? – We need to see that we find a very orderly application there! In addition to this solution, which we can conclude positively today, we have a great deal to do in the near future with the great challenge of financing health insurance, but I am convinced that with this far-reaching view, with this will to cooperation, which is undoubtedly present, we will also solve this question positively.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13113	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13135	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My colleagues and colleagues have already said a lot about this care-constitutional law; I would now like to comment on a few words that have been made, because sometimes I really have the impression: Many have not yet heard what it is all about! Mr Bartenstein! I will start once – and I am sorry, he is not here now – with Mr Bartenstein, who is not there. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein wins the speaker from the seat of Abg. Dr. Stumbling to]] [[Abg. Kainz: He's here anyway!]] He said quite specifically that he believed that the last major construction site was in the social field. Mr Minister, you'll be glad to see what's going on here and what's to be solved. And if you think that was the last construction site, maybe it was for you if you step back or I don't know what – I don't know! – but that it was the last major construction site in the social field, I guarantee you, that is certainly not the case, because we still have powerful things to solve. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am sometimes really surprised at this optimism, including that of the woman Aubauer, who said that care at home is now a fear-free zone. – Mrs Aubauer, yes, clearly: If I have 2 permill of alcohol levels, it will be, or if I hold my valium level up accordingly, I can get that too! [[Abg. Steibl: Sorry, Mrs Colleague, this statement...!]] Please do not believe that now through this solution, which exists, something has changed for everyone to the positive, that everyone can say: Juhu, I'm so looking forward to getting old, and if I'm still disabled, I'm still looking forward to much more, because then I'm sure I don't need to be afraid anymore! – Mrs Aubauer, this is simply not the case, because the situation of people with disabilities is still completely unresolved, because personal assistance has not received any field in this area. [[Abg. Steibl: What does this have to do with the alcohol level?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Steibl: This has nothing to do with the alcohol level!]] Mrs Aubauer, the care of old and older people is still unsolved! Perhaps there are changes for a few people now, but we do not pretend to be more or less everything in butter now! – It's not like that, and I think you have to tell people, and you can't go ahead with anything that's not right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For example, when Mrs. Lapp says: It all fits as it is now, because all those who cannot afford to organize their care or care now have not been able to do so before. – Mrs Lapp, we wanted an improvement – this is what we wanted – so that even people who could not afford to be illegally or legally cared for could now have a chance to do so! [[Abg. Steibl: We did this too, but you green ones...!]] And they still don't have this chance, it all stays the same. It remains as had been, only that now some people can no longer afford legal support. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] Because, Mr. Minister – the first stories come to mind now – it's like this: If someone in a rental apartment has suddenly reported two traders – which will be the case then – then he usually loses the rental interest aid because this rental interest aid is granted exclusively for residential purposes and not for commercial businesses that are in this household. We still have a lot of problems to solve, which we still need to look at. But so that everyone can do this now, because more or less a miracle has happened, it is really not, ladies and gentlemen, dear! I would now like to say a few words on Mr Hofer's requests. – Mr Hofer, we can go along with the proposal concerning NoVA, because there is no problem because we also believe that energy-saving cars should be preferred and not the NoVA should be decisive for the level of promotion. What I have a problem with, Mr Hofer, is your request for care money, which is because you have a very essential area – a very essential area! – which the Greens are addressing in their request, which they have already submitted a long time ago, is missing, namely that at last the correct classification of children must also be carried out. You know very well that children are completely misclassified in the care allowance, because that is because the effort to do would be reduced if the child were not disabled. I miss that in your request, because that is an essential point, and that is why we will not agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13251	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13273	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I call Mrs Haidlmayr: Mrs Haidlmayr, when You have followed the debate today, then you should have noticed and know that we all know that the 24-hour care is a small area in the large area of care. – Mr Buchinger said that, as many of my previous speakers have said, this is the fact that we are all aware of this. We are working on larger solutions because we know that demographic development is the reason. We have to think about it. That's the one point. The second point was raised by Mr Bartenstein: He said that in the future, perhaps the willingness of family members will no longer be there to care for the needy relatives at home. I think that life models in particular will change, that women will have to be longer in the work process, and that is why we need to think of other solutions in this area, whether it be more short-term care beds or more day centers. In addition, you also have to, and I am 100% convinced of this, look at exactly the personnel situation in the national nursing homes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What I always lack in the debate is proposals from the opposition. This is also a question to the Greens: Where are your proposals? It's always been criticized! You are now criticizing the fact that there will now be a legal possibility for the people who have previously been able to afford an illegal 24-hour care, but from your side there are no solutions. Mr Oellinger referred to the fact that there will again be changes already announced today. Mr Oillinger! I'm really asking you: What is bad about changing something in favor of people when something gets better for people? What is bad about the first time in our country there are promotions for people who use 24-hour care at home? What is bad about the fact that there will be quality criteria now? [[Abg. Oillinger: Quality criteria – where?- Oh, my God!]] This creates legal certainty for the caregivers and caregivers when you see that the quality criteria at home are really implemented! [[Abg. Oils: Would be nice!]] That really provides people with security! This should actually be an occasion for all of us to welcome this new law or, at least, to acknowledge the performance that has been done here, because it is so that this challenge has simply not been seen in recent years. The new Federal Government under Federal Minister Buchinger has accepted this problem, and we already have a solution in the previous year... – The ÖVP has not wanted to see it at all for a very long time, Mrs Colleague, but you must admit it now too! [[Abg. Steibl: But on pressure of the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Steibl: No, on the pressure of the ÖVP! That was Willi Molterer!]] The Bundes-ÖVP did not want to see it, and our head of state in Lower Austria also did not want to see the problem. Federal Minister Buchinger has seen the problem and has also found a solution. Now, as has already been said, there is legal certainty for those affected for the first time, care becomes manageable and it is also legalized. It must be in the sense of our representatives that we do not knowingly tolerate or know about illegally employed people in Austria! That can't be in our sense! One point still, because one always pretends that this would be possible for all: not only manageable, but also possible. Mr Oellinger! You also know that not everyone has the opportunity to house a 24-hour care at home! I think it is clear to all of us that, as I have already said, this is only a small part in the care sector. I am very confident that, with Federal Minister Buchinger, we will have a minister in the Social Ministry who will take up this problem, this great challenge, in order not to talk negatively about it, in the care sector and that we will find good solutions. At the end – and I hope this is the last debate on 24 hours of service – I appeal to all colleagues: Help us take people's fears! Let's all work on bringing the legal 24-hour care to people by telling them how to get to this 24-hour care! Then we would really work for people, and that should actually be our mission.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13363	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13385	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that I am speaking on behalf of all the opposition parties if I have brought in the accusation, which stands in the room time and again, that we do not have any suggestions on how to do it better – and there is indeed enough of that! –, reject it very firmly. [[Call the ÖVP: Well, not at all!]] It's not like the fact that you can't win anything from a pussy – which you're now continuing to call it something else – because we just want to have a system that's thought out from the beginning, which is future- and sustainable, and because we don't want to go further and not go along with this path for which you've chosen. Ladies and gentlemen, it would have been a TV broadcast very nice, but you've turned it off, maybe because you think the people are clear in the field of care. – I think it’s very, very unclear! You would have had the opportunity today to explain it to people at home in front of the televisions. But maybe you've also turned the transmission off because you don't want to look at your fingers at a point where you're going now and basically produce the next Murks. There are many things that you have brought together in this permanent dispute of the government of the smallest common denominator, which is why people get their heads off because you simply can't understand: There are Chad adventures with the alien legion in the desert sand, an overall school wall, a hysterical smoker hat – there is everything possible! – and there is also a casto piece, and this concerns us here and today, which really is going on. [[Abg. Steibl: “Hysterical Smoker Hat”?- Oh, my God!]] I want to put it this way: This is a somewhat peculiar, if not even problematic, relationship with the Constitution. We discussed this earlier today, where the EU reform treaty was concerned. This is one of the areas affected. What you're doing in beautiful red-black-green-oranger harmony is that you're trying to undermine this constitution, undermine it, basically torpedo it and finally get rid of it as a kind of national-state old load. That's it! - That's the one side. [[Abg. Murauer: Now that you agree, do you also criticise that? ... discussion... or agreement, you can't be against both!]] But you still have another way of dealing with the Constitution – that is to say to you – where you use the status of the Constitution – and now I am not giving you a good idea of what you are doing, so to speak, to harm it again, and that is the debate we are having here. Now, in truth, you are using the constitutional status to try to remove your own systematic failure in the care sector over years and decades, where you have closed your eyes, ears and everything you can just close from the debt – because this and nothing else is what it is about in this amnesty law, as you call it. I first believed I didn’t hear correctly when I heard “Amnesty Law ”! What's going to be amnest? – They basically do not amnesty any behavior or any inaction of anyone who is used to or who is to be cared for, but they amuse what you have “bombed” in the past! That is the meaning and purpose of this Amnesty Law! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Anything else you're saying outside – that legal certainty is now being created, that a shield is created, and what I know, as all these beautiful vocabularys are called – these are fig leaves you're trying to hang out there. You have promised – and I assume you are allowed to speak; you may take seriously what you have promised – that people's insecurity should be stopped: “Swimm over!” Yes, “Swimm over!” is already reality, that’s right! Today, “Swimm over!”, but not “Swimm over!” about the uncertainty, but “Swimm over!” about this promise – one more where your policy of the “Swimm over!” applies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is already a special piece of art, if you aim to create more justice in this country, to step by step put an injustice after step. Instead of focusing on justice, security, finance, and intelligibility – these are the things that are actually going on throughout the care discussion – you'd rather focus on Kitzbühel, sladming, opera ball and VIP logs in any football stadium. And it is to be feared that it will get even worse in this respect in view of the calendar of appointments that is still ahead of us. Substantial slaughting: Ladies and gentlemen, you have already noticed there – there the Chancellor has lost it, it has been a good thing for all of you, as you are not sitting behind me today – that the population for all of this has already been a little bit fifty for you. Ladies and gentlemen, what is now – and there you have to ask the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs – in view of this amnesty with all those who have so far complied with the law? What about those who have paid their taxes and their benefits in good and proper manner? – These people are, with your “foaming over!” law, very massively discriminated against, and I believe that not only from our liberal point of view, against every principle of equality and against every sense of justice, but also the people feel that way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] And that is why there are also destructive opinions from recognized constitutional judges! You just keep your ears closed, but that's not how it can be. We of the FPÖ have a very clear position and believe that it would be the minimum – if you were to hide all reasonable measures now and continue your Harakiri course in the care sector, with reason arguments not to do the next nonsense – that you would refund back to the people the money they paid. That would be an act of justice, so you could fix this injustice you are now creating. That would be a fair measure – bar at hand. That's what we call for. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: To create injustice in the area of alleged fairness, this is also true in the area of money: This applies in the area of asset boundaries, where you create, maintain and cement a two-class society of better-paid and disadvantaged citizens and caregivers, and that is particularly true where the right to rule is concerned. You cannot explain to anyone that this is a sensible and viable solution for the future if you have a two-class society in such a way that the costs of care, if they are not manageable, for those who do not have children, are taken over by the public sector – for this we stand, too, that is all right – but those who have children, so to speak, receive a financial leash, which must be dealt with by the caregiver in addition to the fact that they have to cope with the difficult situation in which they are located, also gives the feeling that they become a burden in a material sense to their children. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is unfair! That's really unfair!]] These are people who are in the middle of the foundation of their own family! And to them, there is no exception to Mr Pröll, in fact, the last shirt. [[Call to the ÖVP: That's not true at all!]] This is not what we, as a social home party, imagine as a freeman under a responsible social policy – certainly not! – because you know very well that these people, who either support professional assistance or are just there for a conversation, make an incredibly important contribution to the whole care system. And since it is not possible that thanks to this government to the people who have raised children who have contributed to society, it is still that one receives as a punishment a penalty “doubt” for it. - That's why we say: That nonsense must be gone! So I'll bring you something that you can see that we're bringing in, and I'm already excited about how you deal with it, probably as always: You do not even listen – the following request: [[Abg. Steibl: We already listen when it....!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the only sensible way, and not a rounding and continuing with a two- and three-class society, as you have done so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13529	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13588	Mrs Steibl has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13611	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Federal Minister! Madam President, More than 385 000 women and men in Austria are entitled to care benefits under the Federal or State Care Act. Last year my family was also affected. At that time, I learned what it means to care for people in the family community, to care for them because they can no longer take care of themselves. More than 80 percent of the caregivers are cared for at home, especially by daughters and daughters-in-law. I have also learned what personal challenge, which task is placed day by day at the spouse, the children, the children-in-law and the whole environment, when family members need to be cared for in the most difficult situation of life in dignity. After being personally sensitized in this area, I also learned to listen more closely when people said at events and on-site meetings: I'm asking you in politics, don't get upset! Take people's concerns seriously! . We in the ÖVP have listened to Willi Molterer as Vice Chancellor, have taken these concerns and fears to heart and, in particular, the SPÖ has done a lot of work towards persuasion and has also done work for you, Minister Buchinger, in order to enforce this freedom of sanctions and the waiver of recovery. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lapp]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Buchinger, we from the ÖVP have done some persuasion, even if you initially did not want to know about an extension of an amnesty, even though you had the power to act for the benefit of people as a responsible minister. I would just like to say that it is a success that I am really proud, as an ÖVP member, that this care-constitutional law, which represents relief and gives security, is now in place. Mr. Federal Minister! There is also a need for action in the area of capital, which has already been mentioned. My question is: What are you planning now? Some federal states do not comply with the 24-hour limit. The directive mentions €7 000. As has been said, the national leaders have decided €10,000. Not least because of this limit, there are not so many cases of funding. The different funding height between self-employed and self-employed caregivers is also to be unified. That's a lot of work, Mr. Federal Minister, but that's not all. Looking at the front page of the “Kronen Zeitung ” today, you read: 1.7% Pension increase or 2.9% Pension increase! Mr Bundesminister, another open point is the re-regulation of invalidity pension. There is a working group, but when is there a result? Federal Minister! In summary, I would like to say: You are not measured by your words, but by your actions. Austrians expect you, Mr. Minister, actions instead of words. This means, by the way, a successful association, an Austrian-wide initiative. I hope that you can start with this and act more successfully for our Austrians in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13676	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13699	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Values Advisors of the Visitor Tribute! Based on the fundamental commitment to a functioning social network in Austria, it is an obligation of policy to give social security. We know from many surveys within the Austrian population that the issue of security is one of the issues that concern people most and also concern them most. That is why I assume that all of us here must also be worth the safe social location of Austria. He is worth something to us, because, I would like to point out, even if more and more financial resources are being called for, around one third of the total budget expenditure is currently going into the areas of social welfare, housing and health. I believe that we take into account what we as politicians are committed to the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: Well-created money!]] Everyone has the right to age in dignity. No one can escape this subject. But here at this point, let me say something: As Minister of Health, I am pleased that this ageing can also be a very active ageing. As much as we need to have the discussion about care and care today, I would also like to point out that an ageing society in Austria can also be actively getting older and that decent pensioners must be at the forefront of our efforts – in the field of prevention and offers for older people. But it is also a very, very important fact that the care and care at home is a very essential question of society. A social state must respond. This government shares its social responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Even though today has been pointed out very often, above all by the opposition, on discourses and disputes, I would like to say that we are aware of this social responsibility here and therefore we are also concerned about these common solutions, but also about finding them and then putting them into practice together. This has to be focused once. Care must be legal and manageable, that is not a question at all; many words have already pointed to it today. The scheme now presented is both fulfilled. With regard to legal certainty for care at home, it is crucial not to drive anyone into illegality and to give secure prospects. This is the first big point we want to achieve with this situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have done something about this in this government: We have received signals from people, we have listened, listened and made the right decision together. However, I also think that a ban on recovery means, on the one hand, greater security in legality; on the other hand – and this is an essential point, which is also borne by my department – we also need security in the areas of quality of care and legal certainty for the caregivers. Therefore, my department is currently working with high pressure on a novice of the GKG, which creates the necessary legal certainty for the care of those in need of care. This quality assurance is also valued. I think this is where both have to be observed: Quality assurance on the one hand – therefore, as Mrs Oberhauser has pointed out, we must be very, very careful in dealing with medical activities – on the other hand, we must also take into account the practical needs of the caregivers, but also those to be cared for. As I think it is a new way of working together, we are not only working here with experts – Professor Mazal has already been mentioned – but we are also working very actively with the social partners, with the staff representatives of the corresponding professions – namely the care professions – and we have already developed a template here that we can present in the next days and weeks. I believe that this is also a further step towards this security. We have the necessary training structures under the Health and Hospital Care Act and we will be presenting this year a corresponding innovation for the training in the field of qualified health and nursing professions. I think these are essential steps. I would also like to mention here the positive aspect of this legislation, which is so often spoken of here by negative sides. I believe that we have created something very positive for the people of our country – and this must be remembered from all sides. This has proved this state government, as I mean, through its activities.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13770	I call Mr Keck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13791	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, I can welcome the police students from Graz very warmly here at the audience gallery. These are also future officials who have to deal with care problems. We know from the past that in this area the executive is becoming increasingly active. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In mid-2006, the awareness of illegally employed nurses, who were also active in the environment of such a prominent person, became apparent a problem that unfortunately still employs us. What happened in the meantime? – Our Social Minister has presented a funding model to which the associations and aid organisations have already opted for. The Minister of Finance has established a basis for financing during the financial compensatory negotiations. Laws have been passed and unanimous decisions have been taken within the government. A lot of work has been done in itself, but the people concerned are still insecured by media reports and some political speeches. There, where a sense of security and belief in the rule of law are urgently needed, many of these persons produce only uncertainty. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me put the facts on the table. The life expectancy of people in our country is increasing from year to year, and we see that in future there will be a lot more elderly and needy people in this country. In my hometown of Linz, ladies and gentlemen, there will be 20 percent more than 80-year-olds by 2030, and the number of people in need will increase by 15 percent. For example, the social-democratic Linz, for example, did not begin years ago, massively in The area of nursing homes, pension centres, as well as investing in the field of mobile care. In Linz, we find today, in addition to some 2,000 nursing homes and nearly 600 caring apartments, a wide range of mobile services. For example, more than 48 700 hours of work were done in 2006 alone in the field of domestic health care. This is probably also a reason for this, ladies and gentlemen, which we do not know in Linz so far about a problem relating to the 24-hour care, and this is true of some 11,000 people who are considered to be in need of care in accordance with the law on care. So it means doing their homework at home for some of the heads of state, state and mayor. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems important to me to put a bit of figures out of this overheated and country-based debate, which leads to this problem of care. In Upper Austria – and this can be seen as an example for all federal states – the situation looks as follows: 83 000 people have received care benefits there in 2007. And now it comes: 1 300 – that's just 1.5 percent – have taken up illegal care there. If you continue to analyze the figures, you can see that it is 0.7 percent of those concerned at the care level, 0.9 percent in the care level, 1.4% in the care level, 4 3.3 percent in the care level and 5 to 7% in the care level. I admit, ladies and gentlemen, every case is too much, because behind it there is not only an illegal employment of tax evasion and tax evasion, but above all a person who has not been able to receive sufficient care under legal conditions, because at national and local level the facilities and facilities for the accommodation of these persons are not available. We at the federal level, as I think, have done a large part of our tasks, and we do so today with the present law. It is now up to the Heads of State or Government to do their job and guarantee comprehensive care facilities and facilities. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Hofer: We shall reject this motion for a resolution on NoVA because it is too different and not socially staggered.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13858	Mr Grünewald. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13880	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! Mr Federal Minister, you have said that the solution you propose today is not a solution for everyone. – That was already very euphemistic, and I must admit that colleague Königsberger-Ludwig was already a bit more precise by saying that this was just one solution for a few. Let's stay with you, that's right. Generally speaking, it is said to be a solution for 5 percent. But what about the remaining 95 percent? If you still remember the political unword “Schulterschluss” that was used in the government of Schüssel I, it has actually been used to somehow create supposed problems, crises and threats from the outside through a new sense of union, by collapse, warmth within the government fractions, so to speak, if you want to become lord and reach something politically. That's what I'm asking myself: Why did ‘ education ’ or the word ‘return ’ or ‘together’ or ‘we’ find no place in the care problem at all? That must have a reason. I remember when the former Chancellor Schüssel – if I am extremely friendly now, I say – meant in an careless choice of words, there is no need for care. It would have been more just if he had said: I don't have an emergency. But an 8 million republic does not consist of 8 million German Chancellors and German Chancellors – would not be possible. So that is to say, with this statement, every sense of union between government and those affected in sound and fog has already been puffed. What are we doing here? – I think we have to give people the feeling that they understand them in their emergency and with their concerns. Now put yourself in the position of old but also young people who need care and care! How do they feel when they are told: You old people or your boys, caring for, can no longer be financed in the future, you are the cause of a future state bankruptcy!, when martial expressions come like “cost explosion” or “overage of society”? Old age is not a criminal offence. [[Abg. Oils: But, two governments have acted as if!]] Age is worthy and respectable. They always argue with beautiful words from the desk and pretend as if you had practical experience as an intern who has learned body dishes for months. That's all abstract. If you don't have a problem with experience and self-relived ports, you simply don't make a good policy. Of course, words such as “overage ” and“ state bankruptcy ” cause these people a sense of threat and uncertainty. When I hear Austria is not a fear-free zone, I want to correct and say: I wish Austria would become a fear-free zone. – But for the time being, we are nuclear-free, but fear-free is still far and wide no trace. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Just because the concerns are serious, because care and care must be manageable for everyone – now and in the future – I demand a fundamental right for all people, with which care and care are legally guaranteed. We Greens also call for a fundamental right to a binding, federal uniform formulation of quality standards. In the political debate, it is essential to include in the discussion the various loads of family members and health professionals. I have personally experienced at the clinic how many women of over 50 years of age were “fixed and foxi”, not because they are located on expensive cots, but because they have cared for their father-in-law, their mother-in-law, their own mother or their own father – and have no longer succeeded. You also need to talk about it. For me, it is really unbearable that in a republic with 8 million inhabitants, there are nine different standards and laws – depending on the federal state – and thus the people feel their safety, their care, their care depends on the biorhythm or the constellation of a national chief. It can't be! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Kickl.]] I call for a fundamental right for all citizens and equality before the law from the Lake Constance to the borders of the Puszta if you want to hear it Polishally. And, of course, funding would be an important question. I didn't congratulate Bartenstein many times, but what he said I also wanted to say here: Care and care in Austria cannot be primarily regulated through social assistance. That is embarrassing, in my opinion, contradicts all good practices and is by the way still unreasonable. I think that we should be so much valued by old, but also young, to caretakers that we can find a solution here together across all the party borders – not in the distant future, of course not tomorrow, but at least in the medium term. Patience for presenting a solution in the long term should not be required for the elderly and the affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13933	The next speaker was Mrs Riener. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13955	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The Federal Ministers! What we decide today is important and right. With these constitutional amnesty and limitation arrangements, we offer the population More security, security, that all before the 1st. January 2008 has happened, is not sanctioned. Let's look back a few months: The legal basis we decided in June 2007 is good. It enables a 24-hour care in an independent and self-employed form. The legal basis in the Federal Care Money Act for promoting the included criteria is also in order. Finally, the financing agreements to promote the 24-hour service with rates of funding, income and wealth borders between the Federal Government and countries were reached and presented to us for decision in this House in December. In July 2007, we accompanied the amnesty regime with regard to administrative penalties to allow the persons concerned, the caregivers and the associations to adapt to this legal situation. But what have we shown over the last few months? – The uncertainty was great. A few caregivers have been or have reported – Mr Buchinger, Federal Minister, confirmed this time and again. Associations could not provide clear information. One point for this was certainly the fear of retroactive payment of social security contributions. That is why it was necessary for all those concerned and therefore for those concerned to take the fears and bring about the highest possible safety by this decision today. In the Committee, Mr Lap already pointed out that my colleague Werner Amon was also speaking today about the fact that we will have a lot to do with the care and care sector. And just as situations are constantly changing, we will have to constantly adjust policy. We will have to talk about the disunity in the conditions of promotion and the further development of the care allowance – it has already been pointed out several times. That is to say, the care sector includes much more – Federal Minister Bartenstein has already pointed out – than the 24-hour care, and we will have much to discuss and decide on in the field of stationary accommodation, outpatient services, the interfaces between health and social systems, the funding interfaces between countries and the federal government, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot to do with this. Let us try – Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky has already pointed out – to find solutions to these questions in an open and honest discourse without party policy. The people in Austria need us.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e13997	The next speaker was Mr Neubauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14018	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to know how the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has slept in the last few weeks and months in all the things that have come about him, but which he himself has to answer and cause. I would also like to know how Mr Buchinger has slept, because if you look at the media coverage that has broken into Austria over the last few weeks, you can easily find that all that we, as a Freedom Party here in the House in recent months, have actually come across the subject of social matters for a year. The “Kronen Zeitung ” entitled: “Why do I get so little pension, Mr. Minister?” – That’s a good question. Today the same newspaper headlines: “With this pension break”. ==References====External links== January that 70,000 Linzers live at the poverty line – that is 40 percent of our full-years – with less than € 1,000! And that ended up in the headline in the “Kurier”: This is due to the "Kanzler-Malus". – We never had a chancellor who was awarded such an attribute, namely with the Chancellor-Malus, to go into political history with it after a year. This has legitimate reasons, ladies and gentlemen: We have listed 38 invaders of the Federal Chancellor within one year! It is interesting to see what will happen if this balance sheet has to be drawn after a year. I have selected only a few points on the subject of social care, because it is simple and simple enough. It is simply enough for us to want to sell the population the pension adjustment as good, provided with this clumsy companion letter from the Federal Chancellor, who is really not worth the paper. We finally want to make nails with heads! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We will call on the population, especially pensioners, to agree to a complaint at the VfGH tomorrow. We will fight this pension scheme seriously by law! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The population of this country has not deserved this government – and not at all the non-social regulations that you believe we all do! I am still recalling the recipe fee cover, the dubiousization of care, the annual adjustment of the pensioner price index. Mr Amon – unfortunately he is not in the hall – has said that there will be maximum legal certainty here. I ask Mr Amon: Can you give the guarantee that, in the event of a complaint, this bill will really stand up to it? .I'm telling you now that she won't. These are measures that you have presented to us here, but not a solution in the field of care that people in this country so urgently need. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is already remarkable that colleague Ackerl was a social councillor in Upper Austria a week ago in every daily newspaper demanding that the Danish model be introduced for care in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The S & D Ackerl demands this – we have already called for it here a year ago! At that time we were mocked and laughed. Of course, this is a more expensive system, but after expert opinion it guarantees the solution of the care problem in Austria for the next 25 years. Yes, if that is nothing, what should be the comparison of this draft? – That makes us really sure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor has only defended his own position for 20 minutes. It has happened to me almost as if he were the Minister of Defence of this Republic – if I did not know better, that this is a certain Mr Darabos. Just as he defended this today, I had the impression that he was Minister of Defense. I can also say something about the regress demands: It is really populist when, due to the upcoming elections in Lower Austria, the head of state goes and says that the country of Lower Austria is in favour of these rulings and will reduce them to zero in Lower Austria. It is not reasonable for the other citizens who live and live in other federal states to be treated differently against others! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you also need explanation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We therefore want to bring in one of our demands on care, because this is, of course, the foundation for every model in the form of the following motion for a resolution – I bring it to hearing: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, I would like to ask you to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14140	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14192	The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This means that at the end of this item on the agenda, we have two major votes to take. The next speaker was Mr Hoefinger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14218	Madam President. Estimated members on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! I think of the various forms of care offered here, the 24-hour care at home is certainly one with the greatest challenges for all concerned, for those who care for themselves, but also for the relatives and all those who then take care of them. At the same time, however, it is also one of the most valuable, because people can often experience very difficult days for them in their familiar environment, in their familiar social environment and thus find security, on the one hand in their home, in their familiar environment, but also in the vicinity of their families. That is why it was all the more important that the amnesty was extended and extended in time and that transitional provisions were adopted in order to promote the legalisation of care and care in private households: in order to give legal certainty so that people do not have to live in addition to their concerns and needs in the care and care work, they also have to live with the uncertainty of legal persecution. I think that was really cleared out. Mr. Federal Minister for Social Affairs, who is not present now! At the same time, from my point of view, this transitional period must also be used to create practical, human and useful solutions for all those concerned in the future. Here I can see the state of Lower Austria under the head of state Dr. Erwin Pröll mentions the country of social warmth, where people have been treated for example and a dedicated care model has been created. [[Abg. Neugebauer: counterfeiting recommended!]] The Lower Austrian funding model makes the 24-hour care really manageable. Firstly, there are no longer any limits on assets, and secondly, the amount of support for self-employed care workers has been increased to €500 and for self-employed care workers to € 1,000. [[Abg. Kickl: Since when?]] Mr President, I should like to thank In addition, there is a care hotline where competent professionals provide individual care and advice to people and even inform people on home visits. The Lower Austrian care model is really a model. And I expect the Federal Minister Buchinger to establish a uniform model in this model. Everything that goes beyond that, of course, all improvements are welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14266	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14288	Madam President. Minister! Minister! Mr Buchinger is obviously in the well-deserved lunch break, although it would be good for him to pursue this debate until the end, because what came out of the government bank today was not really the final conclusion of the wisdom. But it is obvious that Mr Buchinger is already so satisfied with himself that he no longer has to listen to the rest. [[Abg. May. Lap: That's ridiculous!]] - No, it's not ridiculous, Mrs. Colleague! It is a social issue, and it would be useful if the Minister of Social Affairs would listen to this debate until the end. In my opinion, that would also be in the sense of parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What has been presented to us today is actually aimed at extending a problem, extending the amnesty. However, this will not solve the problem of care; it will probably be postponed but not removed. Finally, we need a way to really discuss this issue seriously. This is not happening today. Today, something is being raised in constitutional order, and that is what it is now from the table. I refer to what all came out of OTS before the elections took place and this federal government was formed, especially by Mr Buchinger. ==References== August 2006, at the time he was still Landesrat in Salzburg, said: Because care professions on the labour market represent future occupations, appropriate training opportunities are to be forced. This would prevent the threat of a lack of care force and would also create new jobs. Mr Gusenbauer said in August 2006, that before he was elected Federal Chancellor, he wanted to send money from useless courses of the AMS to combat youth unemployment. ==References== August, Dr. Gusenbauer said that increasing the care allowance was an important requirement for people to be able to take care of themselves. And so on. All this is no longer valid, which was valid in 2006 before the elections. Today, both the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Social Affairs have spoken for 10 minutes. However, it has not been mentioned with a single word where the training offensive is supposed to be now, where we are supposed to get nurses in the future at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Obviously, both the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Social Affairs do not matter how this problem is really solved. We prefer to continue to advertise in Slovakia, Hungary. It's been a few years. But, in reality, this problem is getting much bigger. Because one thing I'm telling you is: The wage level will also rise there, and the labour force will then no longer come to Austria to care for cheap money. This is a problem, and I miss any solution that would be really important here. The problem of care – that was said by Mr Grünewald – is, of course, already a big one. Mr Grünewald said that we should not use the word ‘ageing’. But it's like this, we're getting older, and that's what we need more care, and we need more caregivers. That's where you have to put the lever. I miss it. I miss this in every speech from this government bank! If we continue to consider how many care patients today are in acute beds, we have to ask the question: Isn't there finally up there? Is it not finally time to create the conditions for the care of colleagues at home from their families that support is offered? When I look at the current Court of Auditors report, I note that the Court of Auditors also says quite clearly that the care allowance is far too low that the level of coverage is too low, especially for people in need of care who do not have a chance. In other words, there are no relatives, at least 400 000 Austrians who do not receive any support, nor mental support, but much less financial support. It's always just talking about the money. It is obviously not worth our old people in this country. I take this from today's debate. This is what the big problem is: People in this country are not important to you. It is not important for Mr Buchinger to have this whole discussion. He'd rather be in lunch. I'll take it with me, and I'll take it for the people outside.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14339	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14361	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The field of external 24-hour care at home is finally clearly regulated by this Constitutional Act. The present solution, according to which those concerned, if they are up to 30. It is in the interest of all interested parties that they must not expect any penalty or repayment from previous years or other disadvantages. Now the information has to be in the foreground. We in Vorarlberg have been very offensively informing since the beginning of December. The state of Vorarlberg has carried out special speaking hours in cooperation with experts in all major municipalities. Our credo must be: The better the persons concerned are informed, the faster they will register. As a next step, the Health and Hospital Care Act needs to be reviewed to what extent the framework conditions for 24-hour care can be made even more practical. It is not understandable that caregivers are not entitled to carry out simple activities such as personal care, change of association or the control of drug revenue. Moreover, as announced, the care money needs to be increased quickly and massively, as the 24-hour care is only a segment of daily care and care for those in need. But let us not forget the many caring relatives either. They too need our support. An example from Vorarlberg: A small but important part of the care is mobile child care. In 2007, 44 seriously ill children and young people in Vorarlberg were cared for by specially trained children's nurses in mobile child care – a particularly emotional area. The care of needy persons is something very individual. Every case is different, and every case needs the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14401	Mr Fichtenbauer spoke as the next speaker. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14422	Madam President. High government bank! High house! At the hearing of the joyfully voted “Philosophicum” – but this is to be put under quotation – the question is appropriate, When drama is more to be felt: if you are a plegling in this system, or if it really is that people on the government bank and in the great coalition that celebrate this law really believe it. – That would really be the summit point of drama! I don't think you believe that, but it's the consequence of the consequence, you're pretending to be repairing the thing with this sponge-over-law. It is not to be disputed that this law is a boon to some progress compared to earlier. The last thing that should come out of my mouth is unfairness! Much more fairness, however, is appropriate to people who are affected by it, namely that they are lured into a trap. A warning is to be called to them. There was indeed a hearing that was very good and that experts participated in, and it is claimed that the concerns of the Freedom Expertship would have been disproved. I offer you a thought experiment. – But you have to think about it. For example: There are two people sitting in a darkened room at 12 o'clock in Central European time, and one says to the other: By the way, it's day! – The other looks around and says: No, it's night. – This is the reluctance you have in mind, so finding truth by finding a majority, but that’s not the reality! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The reality is that the appearance is raised that this sponge-over-law eliminates and rehabilitates the entire labour-law problem. – The opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Buchinger mentioned in an additional sentence that there is no interference in terms of labour law. – Well, that’s wonderful, but the consequence of the 24-hour care by a so-called self-employed person according to this model takes care of the Supreme Court of Labour Justice if I can say so salopp. There are both Red and Black Zig thousands of people who have been swept through by the social partnership system – whether it be the Chamber of Workers or the Trade Unions, whether it be the Chamber of Commerce. There are labour law experts in battalion. You just need to get one of them, and he'll tell you what's going on! If man is present for 24 hours with a personal obligation to work, is integrated into the system and so on, he is regarded as an employee. Even if you write about the contract a hundred times “self-employment” about it, it will not use anything. And then the poor who believe this propaganda, which is being blessed today, all employers' burdens fall completely on the poor cross. The cross carries people alone, and obviously no one helps them. If that is true, what you are saying here is that everything has been rehabilitated, I ask you to make a state guarantee that any labour-related burdens arising from this system will be paid off to those concerned. That would be the first step in the process. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14483	The next speaker was Mrs Grander. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14504	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Mr Fichtenbauer, for this reason there is also this decision today: to create this security. We are fully aware that changes must continue. The safety of the persons concerned, of the family and also of the staff in the care – in particular in the care, because the house care law is affected – and the care. We know there's a lot of fear and uncertainty. Everyone who's busy with matter knows that. I also know from colleagues from care who work in case management that this causes a great uncertainty. Our claim is simple, that responsibility is assumed. Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky did this. It is good that we now have a framework – that is, even people who work in this area, in case management – in which we can move right now. The framework, of course, also requires a serious discussion of legalisation. It was and is very well known to the caregivers and also to the employees that this has not always been done in the legal framework. Of course, this has also been insecure, and you must not forget that – especially the fear of demands, because that would, as you yourself know, endanger existences. Legal applications have also been made before, as has already been mentioned today. It is not true, therefore, that all this has always been done only in the illegal field. I would like to focus very briefly on a good case management, which also saves a lot of money, because resumptions that have been addressed today are spared and family members are not overburdened because early rules can occur; therefore: Case and Care Management, Family Health Nurse, part-stationary care – this has been mentioned several times today – short-term care, transitional care. I would like to say briefly to Mrs Mandak: Especially in Vorarlberg there is a very good example in Ludesch: integrated old care, where 24-hour care at home has been lived for 17 years per excellence. I think there are good examples that must also be used. I would like to ask Mr Strache: If one is always talking about the need for care, one also defams the people who work in this area every day, because it comes as if they would do nothing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Oellinger! The development of this whole subject must be possible. We're taking steps. I think that this right to dignified care and care will continue to accompany us in the political work over the next decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14561	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14583	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! The aim of the ÖVP has always been that people with disabilities or older people with care needs may and may live at home for as long as possible. This is where action needs to be taken. In the last legislative period, caregivers were particularly affected, with co-insurance, with the support fund for caregivers. These were important steps, and there is a need to further expand the support. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy I was somewhat moved and angry, namely the statement by colleagues from other political groups, that these days we are in the 21st century. There are great facilities for people in need of care. I think an institution can also have five stars, it will never replace life at home. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ, BZÖ and FPÖ.]] “Home instead of home” is also the foreign exchange of the ÖVP for the 21st century. ==References== With the 24-hour care, another important step was taken, and with the extension of the amnesty legal certainty was created. The next steps have already been addressed. It would be important to increase the care allowance and that care activities would also be possible through caregivers, through personal assistants – of course, only under certain conditions. My predecessor, colleague Grander, addressed the case management. In my opinion, it would be a good and important way for professionals to train caretakers and personal assistants in activities that occur daily and which are part of the routine, and to ensure the quality also through monitoring and monitoring. I would like to conclude by thanking Minister Kdolsky for seeking a legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14637	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[14:11:50]] We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the draft law on care Constitutional Act, title and receipt in 430 of the Supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the payment of 20% of the purchase price in the case of the purchase of motor vehicles by the disabled. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the abolition of the family rule. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues on inflation adjustment of the care allowance. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must also be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the adjustment of the care allowance, 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. I now ask the author, Mrs Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call; Mr Jakob Auer will then replace her later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14774	The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14808	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 165; of which ‘yes’ voices: 27, ‘No’ votes: 138. The application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With “Yes, ” MEPs voted: Aspock; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Bucher; Darmann, Dolinschek; Fichtenbauer; Grain duration, count; Haidlmayr, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Hauser, Hofer, Kickl, Klement; Mayerhofer; Neubauer Werner; Rosary; sound, discs, stratagems; themesl; Vilimsky; Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler; Singer. With “No ” Members voted: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder-Maier, Brinek, Broukal; Cap, Csörgits; Dobnigg, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, perforation; Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Ehmann, Einwallner, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Faul, Fleckl, Franz, friend, Fuhrmann, Führer, Fürntrath; Gahr Hermann, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grander, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Großruck, Grünewald; Hagenhofer, Hakl, Haubner Peter, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek, Hradecsni, Huainigg, Hursky; Jarolim; Kainz, Kaipel, Kapeller, Karl, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knoll, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krainer, Krist, Kukacka, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lens, Lights, Lohfeyer, Lueger, Lunacek; Maier Ferdinand, Mandak, Marizzi, Mayer Elmar, Moser, Muchich, Murauer, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz, Niederwieser; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Pendl, Pepper, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Prehauser, Praßl, Prince; Rada Robert, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reheis, Riepl, Zeit Sylvia, Rossmann, Rudas; Sburny, Schasching, Schalling, Schelling, Schittenhelm, Schönpass, Schopf, Schultes, Schussel, Sieber Norbert, Sonnberger, Spindelberger Erwin, Spindelegger Michael, Stadlbauer, Stadler Astrid, Stauber, Steibl Ridi, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Stummvoll; Tamandl, Trunk; Van der Bellen; Weinzinger Brigid, Wöinger, Worm; Zach, Zinggl, Dwarf, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e14983	We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 431 of the supplements. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must also be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' Parliament and bear the name of the Member or Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the adoption of the report 431 of the Supplements, 'Yes', those who vote against to cast 'No' votes in the urn. I now ask the author, Mrs Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call; Member of the European Parliament Auer will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15041	The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15075	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 158; of which ‘yes’ voices: 114, ‘No’ votes: 44. The report is therefore taken note of. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Brinek, Broukal; Cap, Csörgits; Dobnigg, Donnerbauer Heribert, perforation; Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Ehmann, Einwallner, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Faul, Fleckl, Franz, friend, Fuhrmann, Führer, Fürntrath; Gahr Hermann, Gaßner, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Grossmann; Hagenhofer, Hakl, Haubner Peter, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höfinger, Höller, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Hursky; Jarolim; Kainz, Kaipel, Kapeller, Karl, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knoll, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krainer, Krist, Kukacka, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lentsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger; Marizzi, Mayer Elmar, Morak, Muchitsch, Murauer, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz, Niederwieser; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Pepper, Prehauser, Praßl, Prince; Rada Robert, Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reheis, Riener Barbara, Riepl, Zeit Sylvia, Rudas; Schasching, Schelling, Schittenhelm, Schönpass, Schopf, Schussel, Sieber Norbert, Sonnberger, Spindelberger Erwin, Spindelegger Michael, Stadlbauer, Stadler Astrid, Stauber, Steibl Ridi, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Stumvoll; Tamandl, Trunk; Woogers, worms; Zweytick. Members voted with ‘No’: Aspock; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Bucher, Darmann, Dolinschek; Fichtenbauer; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Graezeit, Graf, Grünewald; Haidlmayr, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Hauser, Hofer, Hradecsni; Kickl, Klement, Kogler; Light-ignition reciprocating device; Mandak, Mayerhofer, Moser; Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Rosary, Rossmann; Sburny, Sound, Treasure, Scheibner, Steinhauser, Strache; themesl; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky; Weinzinger Brigid, Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler; Singer, Zinggl, Dwarf. [[14:40:38]] 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (406 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the standard consumption tax law and the 1995 Mineral Oil Tax Act – Ecologisation Act 2007 (ÖkoG 2007) (441 d.b.) 4. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Ecostrom Act (Ekostromgesetz-Novelle 2008) and the Income Tax Act 1988 (442)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15272	We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann with 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15299	Madam President. – On the government bank, I can't welcome anyone. - High house! - Mrs. State Secretary is here. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Mrs. State Secretary is here!]] Good day, Mrs. State Secretary Marek! Well, that's right. The idea of ecologizing the standard consumption tax, which is the subject of the Ecologisation Act, is in principle a good idea. It was already introduced by the Greens in the government negotiations in 2003. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] After all, Mr Scheibner, it took five years for the government to take up this idea. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When did you have a government? – This is the staircase of history!]] But let us look, Mr Westenthaler, at what the Federal Government has done from this idea of ecologizing the NOVA! In fact, a system that will not have a high steering effect has come out, as mentioned in the explanatory remarks. On the contrary, as the draft was designed, and already the first draft, it was an alibi action. But that in the course of the review many proposals, good proposals, have been rejected, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the proposals of the car dealers and car importers have been included in the opinions, which leads me to the conclusion that it is not something that will have a steering effect, but, on the contrary, a law that makes a powerful kneefall in front of the car dealers and importers, in front of the car lobby and in front of the friends fast cars. Why do we reject this draft to the Ecologisation Act, to ecologize the NOVA? – In essence, there are two reasons: First, the malus threshold with 180 grams of CO2 emissions is extremely high. Very high! It must be kept in mind that only a very small part of the car stock is covered by this CO2 emissions, from this malus threshold. [[Abg. Scheibner: Always against the drivers!]] However, if you want to do something in the sense of climate protection and health, you have to go down clearly with the malus threshold, Mr. Scheibner, because then you get the mass of the cars and thus the mass of those that cause CO2 emissions. But if you look at what the other plan is to lower the malus threshold, you can see a small step in 2010 – as the threshold is lowered from 180 to 160 grams of CO2 emissions – but this is of course too little in the case of the European Commission and also in Austria of 120 grams of CO2 emissions or even less. So if we want to have a NOVA that has a substantial steering effect, then it can only be about reducing CO2 emissions by 10 grams every two years in the next ten or twelve years, so that we reach the threshold of 120 grams of CO2 at some point in the medium term. The second reason why we reject this ecologisation of the NOVA is that the structural weaknesses of the NOVA remain, those that we have constantly criticized, namely the low tax rate. What makes sense would be a progressive tax rate. But it is far and wide nothing to be seen. In addition, the cover remains upright. If we want to reduce the SUVs, the purchase of SUVs and the many dirt slides that move on Austria's roads and highways, we need to remove the cover! In one word: In the 2007 Ecologisation Act, a great opportunity for a NoVA with a really high steering effect was missed. NoVA in this form, as Mr Vice-Chancellor said, is not an ecological milestone. No, no, no, On the contrary, it is a political invitation to the purchase of dirt sluts. By the way, I share this view with the “Raiffeisenzeitung”, which is to be read. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: In letters of readers!]] One thing I would, of course, be from the government or from Mrs. State Secretary – aha, now there are more members on the government bank; Mr Matznetter is here too, he will explain this to me – I would like to know: The government has now come to believe that climate change entails a high level of economic costs. And if I read in the draft that these measures, which are a mild means of avoiding the costs of climate change, I feel it is best to be an euphemism. Do you believe, Mr State Secretary, that this measure, like the measures in the field of mineral oil tax, can actually avoid the economic costs of climate change? - I guess that can't be serious. A few notes to increase the pendulum rate: The shuttle fee will be increased, the negative tax from 200 € to 240 €. Distribution policy is all right, because those who are so to speak hit by the high energy prices are being helped, but the problem of the principle of the promotion of commuters does not change anything at all. Nothing! The structural weaknesses of commuting continue to exist. It continues to be environmentally inefficient, it continues to promote individual transport and not public transport, and it is, Mr State Secretary – and I remain here – a premium for severing. This is rereadable in not only one but in many studies of the Austrian Institute for Spatial Planning or also of the Austrian Institute for Economic Research. That is why I believe that this measure can also not find a way out of the energy trap for the many commuters we have in Austria. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] If we want to get out of this energy trap, it is not enough to turn on a wheel, namely the promotion of commuters, but then we need a further ecological and social tax reform. And these have already presented the greens ten years ago. It would be good if the government also took up this idea. I also wish that it would implement this eco-social tax reform with more verve than it has done with the ecologicalisation of the NOVA. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15387	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Schüssel. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15408	Madam President. High house! These proposals have two objectives. One is the renovation of biogas plants in need, which is very well done, because in recent years, 270 gas plants have been built and these have at least 450 gigawatt hours a year. Overall, we want to put an emphasis on the overall EU line – 20, 20, 20 – with 20 percent more efficiency, 20 percent less CO2 and 20 percent EU average on renewable energy in this area. We welcome this. The Minister of Economic Affairs receives 4 cents of supplement, possibilities for raw materials development. – This is the first part to be dealt with. The second part relates to the development of the standard consumption levy, which has so far been confined only to fuel consumption, to CO2 consumption. Up to 120 grams there is a bonus of 300 € and over 180 grams – in between the neutral zone – a supplement of 25 € per gram is provided. This has a dynamic element that will be slowly reduced. In total, we can now discuss everything, but I believe that it is going in the right direction and, above all, the necessary wise balance between the job interests and the competitiveness of domestic automotive producers and suppliers as well as environmental needs. Therefore: Congratulations on this law, ladies and gentlemen! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Worm.]] But, of course, it is also interesting to see the overall context in which it stands. I have already mentioned that the Commission presented a proposal a few days ago, which is basically accepted and supported by us. Of course, Europe must progress with good example here, but also in the awareness that it is not enough for Europe to go this path alone. As long as the Indians, the Americans, the Chinese – that is, very large contaminants – do not participate in this CO2 problem, we must pay great attention to the competitiveness and the quality of our own businesses. The Commission has not done this enough in the first drafts; I should like to say this openly. In the last week, it has inspired and, in particular, has taken a very reasonable path in the energy-intensive industry – steel and aluminium – in order to avoid the so-called carbon leakage, the migration of steel or aluminium plants. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a real danger. Voest already builds in Romania, ThyssenKrupp moves massively from Germany to Brazil, ArcelorMittal closes the steelworks in France, Belgium. That means we have to go to consider this area. The Commission would like to relieve around 14 percent of the manufacturing industry with free certificates or have a generally binding agreement or surcharges and charges on imports from these competitive countries as from 2011/2012. For us, of course, the goal of renewable energy is a priority, that is clear. Austria is among the top countries in terms of hydropower use for electricity. For us, the objective that the Commission has set is 34 per cent, quite ambitious, that must be said. But it can be achieved with effort, even if one can discuss quite well and probably also needs to see how the Commission comes to these calculations. Because that Sweden should have 50 percent renewable energy, we 34, the French only 23, the Germans 18 and the British and the Poles only 15 percent, which is not really comprehensible. It is positive that the Commission has not been able to cope with some of the unacclaimed calls and continues to provide 10 per cent of the additional support for the biofuels for cars. This is, of course, an interesting point, and I believe that we must take it very seriously, because the original euphoria, as it were, is the case. Stone of the sages found that on the field of the biofuel of the future is growing. There have been some critical comments in the last few days and months and one has to address them. There are very differentiated and wise opinions, very critical are for example the Friends of the Earth, very positive of the WWF. Very interesting, but mostly positive, is the Royal Society, which especially recommends sustainability testing and sustainability criteria, because: Not all biospheres are the same. – You have to distinguish exactly what means are used to have a meaningful, positive green effect if you want to. The range of palm oil ranges from rapes, grains, sugar beet, soybeans to oil residues from industry or households that have already been used. This is very important so that we do not advance the deforestation of rainforests so that such a sustainability review takes place. For example, there is a roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. I believe that the idea of the British setting up their own Renewable Fuels Agency – a thought already expressed by the Environment Ministers in our internal discussions – is also very reasonable so that we can have data published annually, where we can also find out where things come from. It is important that there are, in fact, ethical ecological criteria and that this issue is also kept out of the dispute. Last comment: I think that the proposal of the building savings banks is very positive, with an increase in support at the same time the commitment to climate protection to thermal insulation. This is an idea that we should certainly support here in Parliament. I very much hope that in the foreseeable future there will also be a very concrete proposal. Furthermore, I refer to the very good initiative proposal of our young Members last autumn. It already contains a lot of things that will help us for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15481	The next item is Mr Themessl. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. If you observe exactly the 5 minutes, honourable Member, then your speech goes out, otherwise I would have to interrupt you to call the urgent ones. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15519	Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting what the government can think of in order to impose additional burdens on drivers. In order to achieve additional tax revenue, it is also not apprehensive to call it a non-profit-making ecologisation of the car tax. That's interesting. In case you don't know anymore, I'll remind you: Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel, during your government, from 1999 to the end of 2006, has increased the cost of the diesel vehicle drivers by 65 percent, for petrol vehicles by 43 percent – and for a 17.7 percent consumer price index increase. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] It then goes on so that you do not have to take advantage of the new government: Last year, increases for drivers came by 22 cents per litre, which corresponds to almost 20 percent. These are calculations of the ÖAMTC. Now let's go on. Her new proposal to amend the NOVA states: You want to introduce a bonus malus system that plays down the bonus and prefers the malus. So you don't have enough to raise the oil tax last year, which the Minister of Finance will bring in €520 million a year. No, no, no, It goes further with the downsizing. Experts, both from the car industry and from the automobile clubs, have calculated that by their benchmarks and benchmarks you indicate in your bonus malus system, you can expect revenues in the order of about €54 million and expenses for the bonus system in the order of about €33 million. This means that you will also generate a surplus of €21 million, and at the same time you will calculate a savings in CO2 emissions of 33 000 tonnes. If you now convert these 33 000 tons into a relation to the additional tax revenue of € 21 million, then the one price per tonne of CO2 is € 636. If you know that the emissions trading price on the world market is not quite €10 per tonne, then this is a more coined downfall. Mr Finanz State Secretary, I can only congratulate you on this! Furthermore, you have to assume that this additional load will mostly also affect typical family cars that come into the malus – unless it is your intention to push five-headed families into a Fiat Cinquecento in the future. I don't know if you'll succeed. But if you want to do so and want to tax family cars, small buses and medium-sized vehicles, which are particularly important for external service representatives and thus for commercial businesses, this is another more coinage and does not help to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, the economy and the medium-sized enterprises in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that it is also different and that one could choose different approaches to create an incentive to ensure the changeover to low-consumption vehicles, without an additional administrative burden, because it would be relatively easy to handle, shows our request, which I submit here: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope you will agree to this proposal because it would be an administrative simplification and an additional incentive to switch to lower-emission vehicles. You do not harm the economy as you would otherwise permanently do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15594	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Themessl is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15649	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 3 and 4 of the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m., in other words, at 3 p.m., now. [[15:00:18]] [[Request for urgent procedure]] by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues on the energy transition 2020 – exit roadmap “Rouss from nuclear power, oil, gas and coal” (561/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15682	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 561/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15861	I give the floor to Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e15883	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen, Since last week, it has become clearer what Austria is actually up to in terms of climate protection. It has become very clear, and on the one hand it is good because we have clarity. The beautiful speech we've had to make over the last few weeks and months now has an end. Now clarity is stated. Now, finally, sayings like: Austria is geographically a small country, but a world power in terms of renewable energy! We want to expand alternative energy sources! – Now the mask was dropped. The Austrian Federal Government has repositioned itself. The European Union has presented its climate change package. The bad news is that this climate change package goes far beyond what was promised in Bali and thus remains far behind what is really necessary worldwide. But the even worse news, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Austrian Federal Government and above all Chancellor Gusenbauer, but also the Vice-Chancellor, have announced that they will fight this package. The new division from the point of view of this Federal Government is: To combat climate change. That's clear now. They dropped the mask. The beautiful speech is over. Its aim now is to re-move the European Union in a climate-friendly way in its projects and to combat the Austrian climate change targets. This does not sound like Alfred Gusenbauer, but after Fred Sinowatz from the seventies, namely, after stone-time dinosaur environmental policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To explain once again the absurdity of this approach: Mr Umweltminister! Federal Chancellor! They want to achieve the Kyoto 2012 target. At least you say that again and again. The EU's 2020 target, which you want to fight because it's too much for you and which, in your words, constitutes a burden link for the economy, contains significantly higher values than the Kyoto target. – This would mean that by 2012 it will be greatly reduced and fought for climate protection, but then we will release 15 percent more CO2 by 2020, because it is too much for you. I don't understand the world anymore, and I don't understand you anymore. They are talking about stress policy, a burden on the economy and a load package. Last year, you yourself invited one of Nicholas Stern's young consultants to the climate protection summit, let him speak and – as I hope at least – listened to him. And I also hope you understood. I assume that because you're a smart politician on and on. The simple statement was that in the event that climate protection is not being done now, a strong burden on global economic performance, in concrete terms, of 20 percent, is to be assumed. On the other hand, climate protection costs 3 percent of global economic performance in the worst case, and in the best case, it even brings a plus. What that means for the individual, we now know it, because the European Union has set it before us. Climate change costs EU citizens €3 000 at no time per head and nose. The climate protection package you want to fight because, according to your words, it is too much and a burden, costs the citizens 150 €. . I think this is a very simple bill, and I wonder why you cannot understand it, because you yourself have supposedly put this Nicholas Star report at the centre of your actions. If you continue to fight climate change at European level, keep moving further and further away from the Kyoto target, which can no longer be seen on the horizon, and do nothing in essential areas, then you will actually burden the Austrian population and, above all, the next generation! It seems to me that when the government goes to the “fisher” eats, consumes a lot and more and says: Those who pay aren't here yet, they're coming. – This is your process in climate protection policy! You have written off the responsibility for the next generation. Obviously we are back in the 1970s: Climate protection and environmental protection are perceived as a burden and are not seen as an opportunity for the economy, but rather prevented. We did not expect this in the form of government. Assuming load: This means not only a financial burden on citizens, but also a dramatic health burden, and I expect the SPÖ and SPÖ Chancellors to take this aspect into account in climate policy. – Who is aware of what it means for a two-year-old, in a city such as Graz, Mödling or It is difficult to be exposed to enormous traffic pollution – and perhaps even experienced an asthma attack of a young child – and then, in all the talk of social warmth, does not also take into account environmental pollution and health pollution, which in this area has lost the right to speak from my point of view. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Social warmth, of course, also means concern about child health! Those who fight climate protection and are opposed to European Union climate protection packages are responsible for increasing health pollution caused by fine dust in Austria. That's very simple! Today, the current January data for Lower Austria has come. There is no less fine dust, but more fine dust. There are no fewer border crossings, and there will be no fewer children sitting in the waiting rooms of the doctors, but more children and families with children will sit in the waiting rooms of the doctors and doctors. I thought you understood the problem of the increase in transit traffic in Eastern Austria or at least recognized this fact as a problem. ==References== March 2007, Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer said: Increasing truck transport from Eastern Europe is an unfortunate development. This presents us with great challenges. - Quote. It was different last week. A climate change package has been combated, where traffic is allowed to emit more than it is now. – What kind of policy is that? I don't think this has anything to do with social warmth! Ongoing excesses, loads, reduction of life expectancy, not only heavy trucks on the burner in an order of two million, but also in Eastern Austria a doubling: What have you done in view of that? – Klubobmann Schüssel is thinking about lifting the truck toll, but he wants tax gifts for the freighters. And we don't hear from the SPÖ in this area at all. Minister Faymann swears on the bicycle, but remains completely inconspicuous and vague as regards the actual measures in terms of the restriction of traffic. Those who are against climate change are for more traffic. If you are opposed to climate protection packages, de facto says: I don't care that the population will be more burdened. I really don't know who your political model is on the issue of anti-atomic policy in the climate protection context. Is it Al Gore? Is it Fred Sinowatz? Or is it Bruno Kreisky? Why Fight You don't want the new nuclear fuel plans? Why Prevent You don't want nuclear power plants to become an option in climate protection policy? I didn't hear from you last week! On the contrary: The climate change package will be combated, and nuclear policy has now become no matter what. They are responsible for increasing electricity consumption every year by 2 or 3 percent each year. And what is the result? Rising nuclear power imports to Austria! If you absolutely want to complete Bruno Kreisky's work, you can honestly lock up Zwentendorf immediately and add a second nuclear power plant to it, because in this order of magnitude we are currently importing nuclear power into Austria. And if you don't do anything against increasing electricity consumption and the eco-power law continues to push on to the long bank and don't repair, you can really lock up Zwentendorf! On the contrary! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Do you want to lock it up?]] We are making ourselves extremely unbelievable on this issue, Mr Environment Minister. Who still believes that Austria is fighting against Temelín, Mochovce, Belene – a new power plant in Bulgaria that we even finance? You have always said that there will never be new nuclear power stations with EURATOM! - Wrong! That was a nice untruth! You can just give up the fight and honestly say: We need more and more electricity, we import nuclear power. We finance with the money of the Austrian electricity customers nuclear power plants in Europe, also at our border. Mr. Bundeskanzler, why are you fighting climate change – and not nuclear power at our borders? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why Fight You do not support a new eco electricity law, so that the share of green electricity in Austria does not fall further, but increases? And why don't you finally strive for energy efficiency and energy saving programmes? By the way, you have set yourself the goal of the Government Convention, but clearly you have forgotten. They've, as it were, opened up an RKW flank. Austria is one of the few countries that has scope for this and can also take place internationally. But you don't! In the summer at the African Summit, when the French President took a pro-atom course, no resistance came from the Federal Chancellor. There are new nuclear power stations in Africa! Apparently, your priorities are: Fight climate change, take off nuclear power. – No, thank you, we really don't need that! We need a different approach, namely an ambitious approach to energy and transport policy, which finally recognises the social dimension. I'm trying to do it now with a culinary example; maybe that's what's tickling. – What does Peak Oil mean? – This means that we will reach the maximum level of support in the next few years. Imagine a nice big French cheese that everyone likes to eat. He's eaten up to half. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] – I do, well, an example for the Federal Chancellor. But for you, it can also be a Waldviertler sheep cheese. You're welcome. [[Abg. Hörl: I would rather have a Tyrolean mountain cheese!]] – Tiroler Bergkäse, agree! So this cheese has already eaten half of it. Then more guests come, and everyone wants to eat from this cheese. What happens then? There are distribution struggles, the cheese pieces are getting more expensive, and those who can no longer afford it come under the wheels. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hornek: This is a mouse philosophy!]] - No! This is not a mouse philosophy, but it symbolizes international oil price development! In the meantime, we've crossed the 100-US-dollar limit per barrel. The Minister of Economic Affairs says that this is a worrying development. Do you know how much we spent on oil and energy imports in Austria in 2002? – 6 billion €! That's totally pointless money flown abroad. Do you know how much it was last year? – There was 12 billion €! And that's going to increase dramatically. This does not do to the Austrian economy, which means only a deterioration of our external trade balance, which is simply a gift of money. I do not think Austria should afford this oil bill anymore. Pendlers should not be forced to take Garconners, which will tear families apart just so that they can continue to do their job. This is the 2020 scenario! Society will no longer work the way you imagine it. Therefore, you have to take a firm stand for the exit from oil, gas, coal and nuclear power. That's what we're demanding of you today. We want an exit plan! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want a complete exit from atom, oil, gas and coal. Austria is to become the first country to reach 100 percent from the oil and nuclear industries, and we have the best conditions for this. This is important and necessary for environmental, social and, last but not least, for economic reasons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] – These are not dreams! You sometimes remind me of the 19th-century carriage producers. ==References====External links== Some dreams of steam machines. We're continuing as before! [[Abg. May. Hakl: How do you want to do this, Mrs. Colleague?]] Don't you want to recognize that the oil industry has gone out? Read a book on the whole question! Get some information! But it's a little simple when you say that's dreaming. Sweden has decided to do so and many countries are discussing it. This is one of the top questions, and Austria could really become a pioneer here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: How is that supposed to work, Mrs. Glavischnig?]] - I'll come up with concrete examples. But You can enjoy in 2015 if As a small party in the opposition, you are explaining to people why you have missed out on the last few years in the field of climate protection and environmental and energy policy. Your children will ask you why you didn't. What do we want? – We want there to be 100 percent renewable energy supply in the field of electricity by 2020 in Austria. It's feasible. However, this is only feasible if, on the one hand, we invest massively in renewable energies, we actually have a viable eco electricity law, end these terrible disputes in the Klimafonds et cetera, and instead introduce a real eco-power promotion that opens us up the portal towards the solar economy in the medium term. On the other hand, there has to be energy efficiency and a radical saving, in households, in small businesses and also in industry. With efficiency and renewable energy, we can do this. By 2020, Austria can become completely independent of nuclear power imports and organise its power supply completely CO2-neutral. I cordially invite you to join this vision and implement it. For heat generation: One million households are heated with oil. I don't want anyone to have it dependent on oil heating when Peak Oil is actually reached and the oil price explodes. We need to help people get out of this oil price trap; we have to replace their heating systems instead of increasing heating costs each year. So many heating aid You can no longer pay any more if it becomes reality in 2014 or 2015! We want to be until 2030... – It can already have happened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] There are also analysts who say that Peak Oil is already reached! We want the entire Austrian heat supply to be converted to renewable energy sources by 2030. In the new building there is to be passive house standard and lowest energy standard, and in the old buildings a thermal insulation is to be carried out, not only in 2015, but already earlier. I believe that you are doing better service to people than with the annual debate on heating aid. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want a final end to structural dependence! Transport has now brought enormous strains. I sometimes wonder how people who live on transit routes and main traffic routes still suffer. I mean, the only thing you can do there is to acquire good meditation techniques to imagine, that's the noise of the sea. [[Abg. Hornek: This is an insult to the arrants!]] Under the rule, noise pollution and health pollution are unbearable. This leads to a reduction in life for people. And you have full responsibility for this if you do not put in place radically restrictive measures in the transport sector, namely to extend the truck toll at last across the board. The surrounding neighbouring countries, such as the Czech Republic and Slovakia, are already doing this. Through Austria, however, the trucks will continue to drive at a discount rate on the federal road. In Austria, the transitzuvachse amounts to 40 percent within a year. Next year, it's 40 percent again. This is a very dramatic development, and you just watch! We want an absolute change plan to be put on the table for the transport sector: The truck toll must be increased across the board, the increase in public transport should be 2% each year in order to radically reduce fuel consumption. What we have discussed before here, the NoVA Prize, does not bring anything. This is a promille range of CO2 emissions, which only cause passenger cars. A functioning eco electricity law could do a hundred times. So don't be too proud of these miniature editions of a real ecologisation of the tax system, which, by the way, is missing. We therefore want to achieve the following objectives: by 2020 the total exit from oil and nuclear power and by 2030 a change in the supply of heat in Austria to renewable energy sources. You should be very pleased, Mr Hornek, for you have always supported regional energy supply. I think you don't want to spend another twelve, 13, 14 or perhaps 20 billion euros on oil imports and energy imports. Finally, Mr Federal Chancellor, I would like you not to throw overboard the minimum conditions you have negotiated and committed in the Government Convention on the first opportunity. The European Union wanted 34 percent renewable. These 34 percent want to fight you. In the government agreement between ÖVP and SPÖ – I think it was still Chancellor's bowl that made it public in advertisements and large posters – it's 45 percent. Explain this contradiction to me! The Austrian Government Convention mentions 45 percent. On the other hand, the European Union requires only 34 percent, but the Federal Government says: We can't do that! That's completely overlaid! That's a burden! Explain this contradiction to us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: You should say for what period!]] Both objectives relate to 2020! So that there is no misunderstanding: The European Union demands 34 percent by 2020, and the Austrian Government Convention sets the target from 45 percent by 2020. This concerns the same period. You're welcome to read this. Our request includes one of the quotes contained in the Government Convention. They always explain to us that although the government is fighting, it is working and it is working. – I would like to confirm today that you are working. Confirm the objectives You yourself have written as a minimum condition in the Government Convention! This is at least a small hope that you can give a lot of people in Austria, and you show that climate protection is not a sausage for you and that you do not want to be called Fred Sinowatz and even Bruno Kreisky, who now locks up Zwentendorf, but that you are a German chancellor in 2008, who takes climate protection seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16075	Mr Gusenbauer spoke on the issue of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16096	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request gives a good overview of a number of facts and consequences of climate change. It is absolutely right – as is stated in this proposal – that global energy consumption will increase by 50 percent by 2030 when projections vote and trends continue. In your application, they also refer to a number of scientifically supported work and point out that the lack of time in the field of climate protection is in any case much more expensive than taking action. This very good overview follows in your application a series of very ambitious targets, such as the reduction of CO2 emissions from road transport by 80 percent by 2050 or the exit from fossil energy in electricity generation and in the heat and energy sector by 2030. That sounds very impressive, which also sounds very busy. The only thing I miss in your urgent request is the mention of those measures that can be implemented by which we can approach these objectives in the first place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] - I'll be right there! – On other occasion would be She herself would be elected by another group in Parliament, there and there as a populist to use a very reticent term. I'm not doing that. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] Nor do I deal with the favorite comparison of Mrs Glavischnig; that would be rude. We have heard what this can lead to when we talk about different foods and their origin here in Parliament. I don't consciously do that. I want to deal with the issues of climate change and what you have brought in here. I believe that the Austrian Federal Government made it clear a year ago that climate protection is a very central concern for us and that in good cooperation with all stakeholders we are trying to continuously develop our climate strategy. We presented the climate strategy last year. There has been the first climate summit, there have been many proposals that we are now discussing and processing, and there will be a next summit in spring, where we will report on what additional measures we have been considering and proposing. This too will be part of a comprehensive discussion. I believe that the last reports of last year – especially the United Nations, but also the Star Report – as well as the fact that we have been away from the Kyoto target since 1999 and have not approached us, have even awakened the last ones as far as a more committed climate change policy is concerned. We have therefore decided, in contrast to the time since 1999, where, unfortunately, Austria has evolved from the Kyoto target, a very ambitious goal, that we will try to make every effort to formulate a goal that is realistic and, secondly, to put forward all the measures that can lead to this in the last years before 2012, but also with further prospects by 2020. The Federal Government is concerned with attainable goals, which can also be presented internationally. We see climate protection as a cross-sectional matter of our federal government. That is obviously also your view. Do Not Set For Nothing For the second time on this subject, you have already submitted a request or a request to me. This, of course, concerns the Ministry of the Environment, it concerns the Ministry of Transport, it concerns the Ministry of Economic Affairs and a number of other departments. We are working together to implement a cross-sectoral climate protection strategy in which Andreas Wabl, who is exceptional in this field, supports me as my climate protection officer and also advises me accordingly in order to take the right measures. [[Abg. Grill: Congratulations!]] – I choose my consultant, I don't need any calls! Thirdly, I would like to point out that... –Please? [[Abg. Rädler: We wouldn't have chosen him anyway!]] I don't understand, you have to talk louder! [[Abg. Rädler: We wouldn't have chosen him!]] - You wouldn't have chosen him. Good. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] That is a difference that we place on. They would not have chosen him, I am very happy with my climate protection officer, who brings essential findings into work. Thirdly, I would like to point out that all the measures taken in the field of climate protection are also concerned with keeping in mind the social, economic and social impact of the measures, because they are implemented not against the population but together with the population. I think that's very important. In this context, for example, last week, former Commissioner Franz Fischler proposed the introduction of an eco-tax in Austria. [[Abg. Sburny: New!]] This is quite an interesting excuse, but one example of this is that such a measure could, of course, have a very negative social impact, apart from accompanying measures. On the other hand, such a measure should be offset by a social balance measure in order to avoid adverse social effects. This points out that, in the case of a balanced climate policy, it is also a question of the fact that not one-sided income groups in Austria are burdened by climate protection policy, but of a climate policy carried by society as a whole, by the whole population, and that Austria also sees itself as a pioneer of a socially designed climate protection policy that takes account of different pressures. All measures must, of course, take account of the effects on the economy and employment. In my opinion, the Bali Conference was a success because for the first time countries that have blocked a global solution in the climate process – such as Canada, Australia, Russia and Japan – have declared at least once that they will meet reduction requirements by 2020. Whether these commitments can be implemented into an actual agreement until a final conclusion in 2009, we will still see. In any case, it must be sought because, of course, only a comprehensive agreement, a global agreement can lead to a climate change policy that does not lead to unilaterally competitive digestion, because this would essentially not benefit the environment, nor the jobs. To say, it is better to lock the steel industry in Austria and to produce steel only more in China in the future, although one knows that there is double CO2 emissions on the ton of steel than is the case with us in Austria, would certainly be the wrong way. It does not help employment, nor does it help environmental protection. Therefore, it is for us that such a global agreement prevents an international deregulation race that would be harmful in two respects. Only jobs would be lost, and global CO2 emissions would not fall but rise. They rightly point out in your remarks that there is a discrepancy between the autonomous objective set by us – namely to reach 45 percent of renewable energy sources by 2020 – and what the EU Commission is providing in its Burden Sharing, namely 34 percent renewable energy, which has met with the criticism of the Austrian Federal Government. I would also like to explain to you why this is the case. We will reach this 34 percent and we strive to reach 45 percent, but one is also true in the European Union, namely that there is an even effort of all. And if Austria is fourth in renewable energy with 23 percent today, it is absolutely clear that the economic cost of further expansion is higher than that of those countries that currently have more than 7 or 8 percent renewable energy. What we are pleading for – completely independent of our own objective, which we will naturally respect – is that there is a fair burden distribution in the European Union, which is presented on the basis of common basic positions. I do not know what should interfere with it in the representation of an Austrian position! No matter what we agree with the European Union: In any case, the goal for us is that we want to reach the 45 percent. However, we do not want to make it so easy for the others to make it so easy, that Austria has 11 per cent from a high level, while other countries have seven per cent and, with an increase of 11 per cent, only 18 per cent. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A little complicated!]] Nor can it be in your sense that we are voluntary, because we are willing to move ahead more forcefully than avant-garde in this area, doing what the others would then feel as a discharge. We want to move forward, and the others should participate to the same extent. I think that would be a much more reasonable way in this context. The Federal Government has therefore decided, of course, to hold discussions with the European Commission on how to achieve a level playing field and a level playing field. In any case, we are concerned with achieving our goal, regardless of what the European Union tells us on the basis of the Burden Sharing. However, it is important to have a fair distribution in Europe so that there is a corresponding guarantee of the competitiveness of the Austrian industry and its associated jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is certainly a pioneer in many areas in terms of environmental protection, climate protection. Nevertheless, it must be said that the European Union's strategy is not always coherent, but is extremely contradictory in some areas. They have addressed the following areas: The current Road Costs Directive is, of course, in a blatant contradiction to climate protection measures. It is therefore one of our main objectives to achieve a change in this road cost directive in order to reduce the transit burden on both the North-South and the East-West routes by including environmental costs in the permissible tolls charged on the transit motorways. This is a very crucial challenge and also a credibility test for the European Commission itself. It is relatively simple to say that the Member States should work hard and make their contribution in the sense of the Burden Sharing. - Okay, we're ready to do that. But where it is then about bringing different lobby interests into a different relationship – as is the case for example with the Road Costs Directive – the EU Commission is primarily required. What we demand is not only that we make our contribution, but that the Commission do what it can where it can contribute. For us, therefore, a change in this road cost directive is crucial to the credibility of the European Union's climate policy. Ladies and gentlemen, further measures to increase the share of renewable energy by 2020 will be put in place by the Federal Government. For example, the revision of the eco electricity law should be mentioned. We are planning to extend the term of time for new plants, which can be considered to lift the existing cap of €17 million annually, but this is subject to the crucial condition that the allocation is carried out in accordance with strict efficiency criteria. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Exactly! Liquid biomass!]] In particular, we want to promote solar energy, geothermal energy, biomass, provided that the plants have a high efficiency and heat is also decoupled. It seems important to me to achieve a high level of efficiency of the resources used. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Exactly!]] There is also something like an economy of ecology. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: There is no economy in the Lower Austrian election campaign!]] We know that the existing funds are scarce, and therefore we want to promote more forms that have the highest CO2 reduction per euro spent, and I would point out that there are, of course, exceptions. Solar energy will certainly take a special position. The promotion is much more expensive compared to other renewable forms of energy, as we know. However, photovoltaics is an important technology sector in Austria. And that is why it is not only about taking into account the cost of CO2 savings, but also about the contribution you can make to technological development in Austria. In this context, it is also important to note that the cost of the entire eco electricity should not be borne by households alone, but that there is a fair burden sharing here. A one-sidedness, I believe, would be of no use to anyone. However, the Eco electricity Act is only an instrument for promoting the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption. And this is often overlooked. Many believe that everything has already been achieved with the novelle of the eco electricity law. It's not like that. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Who believes this?]] – There is always that! – It is essential to reduce energy consumption by saving energy and increasing energy efficiency. As recently noted by a study, we are able to achieve significant savings through investment in the heat and cold sector – an area which in Austria, by the way, accounts for half of total energy consumption. Investments in this area are also very labour-intensive and also have very positive regional and local effects and an extremely low import tendency. This means that the growth impulses and employment impulses of public investment or promotions in this area remain largely in Austria. In parts of renewable energy, Austria already has world leadership today. This also applies to some heat and cold technologies that help to increase energy efficiency. We have excellent environmental and energy engineering companies in Austria. Many of the technologies produced here are also very successful in exporting. However, what is still a lack is the market penetration in Austria itself. This means that many of these technologies are significantly more successful abroad than in Austria itself. Therefore, in the heat and cold sector, the promotion of innovative technologies, the further massive expansion of district heating in Austria, the further promotion of renewable energy under strict efficiency and sustainability considerations, and also the partial commitment of housing development. That's where we have a very important lever. Federal Minister Pröll is currently negotiating with the countries an Article-15a agreement on common quality standards for the promotion of the construction and renovation of residential buildings. I am convinced that it will achieve a good negotiating result in the interests of climate protection. The aim is to significantly increase the thermal regeneration rate and to provide incentives for CO2-saving heating and cooling systems. In addition, thermally renovated apartments with energy-saving heating and cooling systems are absolutely welcome even under social and distribution considerations due to the much lower energy consumption. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We need a rehabilitation billion!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you rightly address the possible budgetary costs of a breach of the Kyoto target by 2012. From today's point of view, the costs are not exactly determined. It is only possible to define scenarios, as Mr Schleicher did, among other things, and as is so common among economists. I take these statements by experts on the occasion of making it clear that we will do everything we can to minimise the budgetary burden resulting from the very ambitious commitment that was made in 1997. This also means, of course, that the achievement of climate change objectives should be a common effort to be taken out of the normal party dispute. Our top priority is domestic climate protection measures – that is absolutely clear – but I would like to stress that the CDM projects can make an important contribution to technology transfer in poor countries and that technology transfer is one of the key elements of achieving global climate change targets. I believe that domestic climate change measures are a priority because they not only create domestic value added and jobs, but also favour the necessary technological change. The promotion of environmental technologies is essential to strengthen our own competitiveness. Now a few comments on the subject of traffic. Much has happened in the transport sector in the past year. First: Mineral oil tax has been increased, and at the same time the rate has been increased by 10 per cent; not to mention the subsidy for low-income counterparts, which was last raised. Secondly, Developing and attracting public transport. The Rail 2007 Framework Plan provides for significant investment in the further expansion of rail infrastructure. As you know, by 2010 € 6.5 billion, by 2020 € 22.3 billion. Thirdly, Increase truck toll and actively influence the possibility of an amended road cost directive as regards internalisation of external costs; plan to collect a toll supplement for cross-financing of rail infrastructure projects in accordance with the EU Road Costs Directive. Fourth: I also consider the last ecologisation of the NOVA to be a first step towards further ecologisation of the tax system. The additional revenue from this title is in addition to the Climate and Energy Funds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] I would also like to mention the climate and energy funds in this context. Climate protection is mainly concerned with the conversion of the energy system. We will achieve a reduction in the dependence on fossil energy sources through massive investment in research and development and by promoting market penetration of existing forward-looking technologies. I would also like to comment on your three requests in this regard. First of all, as regards the share of the imported atomic stream: This is currently 9 percent. Our aim is to further reduce this share. This is due to the fact that energy systems have a high nuclear content and also explains our vehement intervention against nuclear energy. Thus, we are committed to this – we are quite alone in the meantime, should you not notice – that within the European Union nuclear power is not counted among renewable energies. [[Calls for Greens]] Secondly, According to a study by the Technical University, there is enormous potential for savings in the heat-cold area, as mentioned earlier. However, I consider a complete exit from fossil fuels to be very difficult at the present technological stage until 2030, if not impossible at all. It will therefore be a matter of finding a more reasonable mix of energy sources, which we aim to achieve a very strong renewable share. Thirdly, Compliance with the Kyoto target by 2012 without the purchase of emission certificates is not possible due to the current development, and therefore the achievement of the Kyoto target will only be possible with the purchase of such emission certificates. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I can understand your impatience, but I would point out that we are making greater efforts in the field of climate protection – due to the discussions that have taken place in recent years – and I have the impression that the reinforced measures in this direction will sooner or later bear their fruit at all levels. In any case, we will be able to fulfil the European Union's Burden Sharing to the extent that Austria also corresponds to, namely: to point out!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16320	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Van der Bellen, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16348	Federal Chancellor! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! That was a relatively conciliatory answer, Mr. Federal Chancellor! First of all, a few brief comments from me to some remarks from you. Of course, this is a cross-sectional matter, of course it is a matter of the Federal Government, which is why the request and the requests to you. Minister Pröll is, among other things, the climate minister, but we all know that he basically has to represent the failures, the hesitations, this misguided approach to the necessary climate protection measures of the other ministers. Minister Faymann is responsible for transport, yes, Minister Bartenstein is responsible for energy. Minister Molterer is responsible for taxes and taxes of all kinds. Minister for Climate Change Pröll is actually only responsible for biomass. So that's really a problem, I think, for this central task. Andreas Wabl - what we welcomed - has appointed you as your highest-personal climate protection officer. Only, Federal Chancellor, he's no one, as much as I know, and he can't get all the chestnuts out of the fire for you, because you have to use yourself a little more. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The information situation with some politicians is already somewhat remarkable. Ecological tax reforms, energy tax reforms, eco-social tax reforms, these are really not new topics. The OECD has been working on it for at least 20 years – for at least 20 years! – and I would have expected an economist like Gusenbauer to know that the social balance in this context is really an ex-judicated issue. And in these proposals, which we introduced at least ten years ago – advocating the level of action here – I would even say that we would be in favour of the weakest groups in Austria, who would have benefited net by reimbursing energy taxes per man and nose for women, men and children. So there's plenty of opportunities there, you don't have to worry. By the way, these reforms were discussed under Lacina and Edlinger at the time, but then disappeared in the deep drawers of Karl-Heinz Grasser. First of all, as far as the level of action is concerned, Mr Bundeskanzler, I am solemnly handing over to you a relatively thick brochure of the Greens – it covers 60 pages and is too long for a motion for a resolution – with some suggestions for possible measures in all these areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[The speaker presented the brochure to Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Thank you!]] But do you know what I'm particularly missing? I still have the feeling that SPÖ and ÖVP, i.e. the two government groups, are already aware: Lord God, climate protection, yes, everyone is talking about it, Europe will also be affected, even the Alpine region will not be spared, but I think you have not yet learned that the Alpine region will be particularly affected; at least the rise in temperature is twice as high as at the European average. Somehow you can't make this your concern. That's why you can't make it clear to the people – hello, Andreas, greet you – that this is not a burden, a burden, but a task that is worth taking into consideration. [[towards the climate protection officer Andreas Wabl sitting on the gallery]] I read briefly what an EU Commissioner – to whom I otherwise do not trust a lot in terms of proximity and vision – says in two, three sentences what it is all about; although God does not know what kind of rhetoric is. Piebalgs, responsible for energy: “... provide renewable energy sources with an opportunity that we should not afford. They enable us to reduce CO2 emissions and increase security of supply. “ It is not only about reducing CO2 emissions and other greenhouse gases, but, of course, about greater independence with Iraq, Iran, Russia and so on, towards oil and gas suppliers. “In addition” – and now it comes – “this developing high-tech sector offers a great employment and growth potential. If we act now, Europe will be far off in the race for a low-emission economy so urgently needed by our planet.” Yes, Federal Chancellor: if we act now. The Commission is obviously meant by “acting now” and the Council will be meant, and then the policy is meant. You rightly referred to some companies and companies in Austria, which are global leaders in the wind, photovoltaics and biomass sector, not because of this federal government and not because of the former federal governments, but because of the brilliant entrepreneurs who have recognized and invested this market in good time. The Federal Chancellor says with regretful tone: Unfortunately, for example, the home market is very weak in photovoltaics. – Why is the home market so weak, Mr. Federal Chancellor? [[Call the Greens:Ecostromgesetz!]] – Eco electricity law, thank you for the keyword, but I would have liked it otherwise. – Mr Bundeskanzler, 180 pages, too long for a resolution: Experience in 2007 on the Renewable Energy Act (EEG Experience Report) from the German Bundestag, adopted by the Federal Cabinet of the German Federal Government on 7 July 2007. ==References== It's really worth looking in there. For example, why is Germany world champion in photovoltaics? What has happened after this experience? The EEG, this new law to promote renewable energy in the electricity sector, has now been seven or eight years old; it entered into force in 2000 and has been innovative several times. What happened? – Electricity generation from biomass: doubled in these years, electricity generation from biogas: increased by triple, wind energy: plus 20 percent – because the starting level was already very high in Germany – electricity from photovoltaics: Fourfold in these years, still admitted at absolutely very low level. [[Abg. Hornek: That's the point!]] – This is not the point, Mr President. The point is that the German state has made it through a law that, among other things, promotes photovoltaics, that this market is developing. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Sounds.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] – The colleague does not understand. [[Abg. Hornek: This is your problem, because I know better in this report than you do! That's your problem!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: (in the direction of Abg. Hornek) You're the low point!]] [[Abg. Hornek: Tell him the sides he should look for.]] That's just two pages, and I won't read them to you either. Perhaps you are interested in the following, Mr. Colleague: In the years since the German EEG entered into force, electricity generation costs from photovoltaics have fallen by 60 percent, almost two thirds. Why have these costs fallen? Because the quantities produced have increased. Mr. colleague, you're going to Steinach on the Brenner – do you know where that is? In Tyrol. – Ah, I was probably too small. [[Abg. Hornek: Mr Colleague, I have already seen photovoltaic systems, as you have not yet known what this is!]] Okay, you've seen such installations, but you haven't had any consequences, but let's leave that. In any case, a market with 200 000 additional jobs has been created in Germany. Even if you calculate possible other effects, according to official data, 70 000 or 80 000 additional jobs remain in the field of renewable energy, a quarter of them in the photovoltaic industry. This sector also exists in Austria. There are found companies, Fronius in Upper Austria, SOLON in Tyrol – but these are entrepreneurs – that have completely unimpeded by the failure of the Austrian state to develop their products in this area. They have export quotas in their range of 100 percent because the home market does not exist because Austria has slept. It's high time we picked up here. [[It was in favour of the Greens and SPÖ and BZÖ delegates.]] But you only come up with your referendums, there and there a little bit is done, you're also putting in 10 million – do you know what Fronius is investing for research year after year? 18 million €! This small company in Sattledt invests more than you are willing to promote in the field of eco electricity promotion for Austria. Do you understand the magnitude and my anger? This is not a question of climate change alone, my colleague, because it is about the labour market, it is about modern, innovative companies that will have a market in India, in China, all over the world. Everyone understands that, just we don't here or, better said, you don't!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16520	Mrs Bayr's next speech. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16544	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, I can share your anger, indeed. Four months, a week and three days, it has been so long since the last environmental committee met and we, all five parties, have agreed that climate policy, that climate protection is too important a topic to spin on with party-political cross-sections, is too important a matter simply to keep up with. We have agreed that we all sit at a table and we all want to find a common position. The chairman of the Committee, Eva Glavischnig, then took over the task of coordinating an appointment and ensuring that these talks begin. There's nothing passing. - Okay, let's take note of this. We note that it is quite obvious that you are not involved in a really effective climate protection policy, that you obviously only have an interest in creating a stage where you can leave some theater donner. Otherwise, we could have been sitting together for four months, a week and three days. No problem at all. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Personally, it would be really important to me to find such a common basis. I would very much welcome this. We are also, I believe, all ready to contribute to this. Before you give out seven thoughts at press conferences, it may have failed to write a memoir, for example, to invite everyone to this first meeting as an initial inflammation. That would really make a slim foot. You could come to the idea – to take your picture – that your climate policy is cheese and not much more. But I hope that will be the case. If it's not because it's not important to you or because you don't really want consensus and want to continue playing piano on a stage that's not really a stage, then we should be right. We as SPÖ are happy to take over the coordination and invitation – and believe me: You won't have to wait four months, one week and three days. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Indeed, when the European Commission presented its paper, it was highly criticised that Austria, among other things, was thinking about negotiating this proposal, which is now in place in Brussels. I think there are a lot of good reasons to continue negotiating about it: The first reason for me, for example, is the nuclear concession made to France. I think that's an indebted schnitzer. Not only do we agree that nuclear technology is a dangerous technology that is in no way CO2-neutral, but we also know that if depreciated nuclear power plants, which naturally produce very cheap electricity, are driven further, they are in infinite competition with renewable energy. This means that renewable energies need to be promoted even longer and more. For this reason alone, nuclear power stations must be rejected. Mr Glawischnig mentioned Africa, Africa and nuclear energy. I would like to remind you – I do not know if you have heard – that in his speech, in December at the EU-Africa Summit in Lisbon, German Chancellor Gusenbauer made a very clear statement on the fact that, from his point of view, this is a wood road if the EU is now promoting nuclear projects in Africa. In Africa, there are no more or better reasons for promoting nuclear technology than we do. But there is another reason why I believe that it is quite useful to continue to negotiate the question of this package: Among other things, it states that carbon capture and storage should be a definitive possibility for CO2 reduction from 2012 onwards and should then be supposedly economic from 2020 onwards. I personally think this is very much questionable. I don't think it's very good to invest a lot of money to keep burning carbon. I find it much smarter and much more sensible to invest in technologies that make us independent, which also guarantee us a technology leadership and thus Austrian value creation. That is, I think, just as negotiable as the position on the Bio Fuels. It is very welcome that there should now be benchmarks to make the complete production process of these agricultural fuels comparable. That's good. However, if it is said that they are ecological as soon as they substitute 35 percent of fossil fuels, then this is a limit that I personally have far too low. I would like to see a higher percentage. As far as sustainability criteria are concerned, there are some solid proposals in the direction of ecology, but in terms of human rights and social implications, food sovereignty and other issues, I think there is still a lot to be done. We will not save our climate by being sick and suffering from climate policy. There has been a lot of things listed, a lot of steps that go Austria. Granted, there are first steps, and it will still be a long way that will be stoned, but which can also be very promising. I would really like to invite you that we all go together on this important, important path for the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16611	Now, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16632	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For an economy that is one of the most efficient in terms of CO2 emissions, namely Austria – once the countries that rely on nuclear energy, namely the most CO2 efficient country, are left out! – are the goals we have set ourselves, and those who are now thinking about the EU at Burden Sharing are already damned ambitious. But we are committed to the self-elected goals – 45 percent renewable energy, also the CO2 savings targets – and, as the Federal Chancellor said earlier, we will also meet the targets imposed on us by the EU within the framework of the Burden Sharing – they are, as I have said, damn ambitious – on the day of the deadline. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Should we bet?]] Prosperity brings resource consumption, prosperity brings emissions, possibly follow-up costs. The Chinese are just showing us that a country, a giant country that wants to share in this prosperity, is causing an increase in emissions, which in reality destroys all the efforts we are making in Austria, in the EU, in a very short period of time. I mean, plus 1 350 million tonnes of CO2 within ten years, we can still work so hard, because if it does not succeed as actually the top and most important task of achieving a fair distribution of savings efforts worldwide, then we can face up to it, unfortunately we will not save the world with our 13 percent, which the EU has in total emissions worldwide. But we will try to make an essential and substantial contribution to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the intra-European distribution and on the criticism that we have practiced – the Federal Chancellor, the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Economic Affairs, our Mr. Klubobmann –: I think it is necessary and useful to draw the EU's attention to the need to target the right emissions senders in its actions, in the sense of fair distribution. The industry now wants to meet again with a fee – that is, the industry that has done its homework like no other sector in Austria, across Europe – these now with excessive measures – keyword: Certificate allocation – possibly to animated, to transfer its locations to countries where it is much easier, is equally cheaper, is to issue CO2, i.e. to produce steel in a country that has twice as high CO2 emissions per tonne of steel, would not only be likely, but would certainly be the wrong measure and would cause a steering that we all cannot want. That is to say, in addition to the call for a fair distribution worldwide, it is also a matter of making a meaningful distribution – in the sense of steering within Europe – because otherwise, what the “FAZ” I think has recently explained is that we then have no effects at all with costs of 30 billion – some claim to have 60 billion – of this package, while losing jobs and the like. It has also been pointed out that the right recipients of measures are more likely to be those in the field of transport, for example. And the Federal Chancellor has also mentioned quite correctly that the EU's Road Costs Directive is going in the wrong direction here, actually bringing us a bit far away from the objective of significantly saving traffic. It has already been referred to the efforts in the development of housing, because these two areas are – transport and space heating – where most of them can be obtained. A comment on eco electricity: I believe that a country that has managed to get from a share of less than one percent to 8 percent of green electricity within a few years has, first of all, a high credibility that it is able to achieve the next goal, namely, 15 percent by 2010 – and we will certainly achieve it. Mr Van der Bellen, when you refer to companies like Fronius and Solon, I say: Yeah, right! We are all proud of these companies! But our Mr. Klubobmann was at the company Fronius and at the company Solon already at least as timely as you – you are not the only one who has discovered these companies thank God – and these companies also benefit massively from programmes in the research funding that we have targeted precisely on such companies. So this is something that we have long recognized, massively support with support programmes and that, as you can see, also leads to success, also to export success in many countries. They benefit from the eastern opening – wonderful, we support it. We support these companies! One more thing about the behaviour of the Greens: How credible is an applicant who on the one hand has been in the request to strengthen the anti-CFC efforts if, on the other hand, the green participant in this bilateral Commission with the Czech Republic, as far as Temelín is concerned, first agrees to a final protocol at the last meeting, but then leaves the meeting and publicly announces that it is leaving the Commission? – I don’t know what this behavior is, except a populist! It's certainly not constructive. Or on the other hand – this has already been mentioned by colleague Bayr –: Mrs Glawischnig, you have been guilty for months, first of all, of the redemption of your announcement, of the requests we have already made to the other parties for climate protection – by the way, a very comprehensive one, with 21 measures for the concrete savings of 21 million tonnes of CO2 – and, second, of the redemption of the promise to make a joint request in a negotiation. I'm still waiting for you to invite us to this conversation. Our request, namely that of the EIA, with which we could save 21 million tonnes, can be taken as a basis for a joint request if you do not think so. I'll invite you to: Make a concrete proposal! But at first it would be necessary for us to sit down and talk about it. But you don't seem to want that. You are urgent requests, urgent meetings much prefer public talk, but you don't want to do anything specific. – This is not our way! We're going the way of constructiveness.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16699	The next item is Mr Themessl. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16720	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Climate policy, I believe, is a very important issue in this House, across all parties, because we know that something has to be done. And before I come to the applicants to speak the Greens, I would like to give you one point, Professor Van der Bellen: We, too, have called on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to re-design the eco electricity law in a fundamental way – I am perfectly right that this is necessary, as you have our voice – and we have often pointed out that the German Ecostrom Act would be used as an example here, because it is also considered by all experts as such. But now to the applicants, the Greens. – I took out a sentence here, in which I don’t know how to value it: “For ecological, social and economic reasons, it must be the Federal Government’s declared goal to make Austria a pioneer in climate protection.” Now there are two options: Either the Greens have rediscovered their love for Austria, which I rather do not believe, or the Greens, which I very much believe to sacrifice the Austrian economy on the altar of their climate-political dreams. And why I come to this view, you know, I think: First of all, a few weeks ago, a poster was hung in your party headquarters, on which you write: “Take your flag for your Gaggerl” and “Who loves Austria must be shit”. You never distanced yourself from it. – That’s the first reason. But the second reason is quite another, and I am telling you this: because in many things you simply have a hypocrisy in climate policy, which can no longer be surpassed, Professor Van der Bellen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It says: They want to give Austria a pioneering role, a strong pioneer role. – You know that 6.7 billion people live on our planet worldwide. In Austria, 8.3 million of these live. If you calculate this, the 0.12 percent share of the population in the world's population. And then you want to set Austria as a pioneer, even though at a global level we are unable to convince other countries, large countries, where industry is currently growing strongly, like China or India, not even the USA to comply with Kyoto targets or to participate in these climate change measures at a global level? And then you want to stamp Austria with 8.3 million as a pioneer?- Oh, my God! But self-operating You're a climate policy with a hypocrisy that can't be surpassed! I can tell you some things where I am already excited about how you will react to them or how you really want to justify them. First of all: Pioneering roles also sometimes have something negative in themselves. We note this, for example, in tax policy. We are pioneers there, but in the opposite sense: We have the highest additional wage costs in all EU countries. We are also pioneers there, and for this reason we have less economic growth than those pioneering countries in Europe, which have fewer additional labour costs, which have a different economic and tax policy than we do. For example, we have also pursued a pioneering policy through our ongoing toll and fuel price increases. We have flagged thousands of Austrian trucks, thus avoiding tax money from the Austrian state of Immens and at risk of tens of thousands of jobs in the transport industry. – These are also “forerunners”, these are negative! They want to take similar negative pioneering roles with an overrun economic policy of the Greens, which is partly very outdated. Mrs Glawischnig mentioned Fred Sinowatz because she wanted to draw attention to the government's outdated policy. I believe that the climate policy of the Greens must be settled at a similar age. Let's take some things here: They're talking about renewable energy. – When it comes to the expansion of hydropower, you are the first to oppose it because it does not fit into the environment because it is not compatible. – But we need additional energy! They are for the expansion of the infrastructure. Interesting! Then: Here in this hall you are strongly committed to the expansion of the rails, but outside, in reality, in the population, the Greens are the first to participate in every citizen's initiative to make it impossible, where anti-noise measures, noise pollution, environmental pollution and so on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, in your series a few weeks ago, I heard the statement that windwheels are too loud, terriblely cruel, do not fit into the landscape. So there's nothing better to know about you either. If you are talking about the expansion of the rail, the railway infrastructure, I will also tell you the following: It was a last week event on the topic of Alpine transit Austria – Switzerland. This was an exhibition at the Südbahnhof, and later a panel discussion took place in the house of the lotteries. And, interestingly, because the Greens are so committed to the rails, there was no Green MEPs there to see! - Ah? Yes, you were probably in Switzerland and looked at it on site. [[Abg. Mandak: They're all just by train...!]] – It was an interesting debate, because Switzerland is really much wider here than Austria. Switzerland already has more than two thirds of all goods on the train. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We know that! Do you think that's something new?]] You can ask your colleague, Mrs Haidlmayr – who was with the parliamentary group in Switzerland, where this topic was also discussed –: Switzerland has strongly insisted that further increases in freight transport on rail are no longer possible because they have too little energy! That is, at the moment, driving through Switzerland 170 freight trains per day in the north-south transit or in the reverse direction. The Lötschberg tunnel, which has now been completed, and in two years later the Sankt-Gotthard tunnel would be able to record such transports in the quarter-hour cycle. Only: You have too little energy! And Switzerland also has the same problems with the greens that appear in Switzerland, that the expansion of hydropower is not possible, because it is against it everywhere, and that an expansion of solar energy cannot deliver the necessary energy that is needed in the next up to ten years due to these techniques, and Switzerland is, of course, forced to renew and expand its nuclear power plants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] You know what? – Say goodbye to your obsolete climate policy, to your obsolete climate policies! The only thing I'm right about: The government is urgently urged to amend the eco electricity law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16790	Mrs Lichtenecker has now referred to an actual correction. The rules are known: first the corrective, then the corrected facts, in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16815	Mr Kopf, at the time when the Green Group was fully present at the last interparliamentary Temelín Commission in Budweis, was no longer present by members of the ÖVP and SPÖ and also the BZÖ, who were from the National Council, in order to clarify this. [[Abg. Head: What is it now?]] And the Greens are therefore from the Commission...
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16841	This is not an actual correction. First of all, they must explain the facts to be corrected and then the facts corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16860	It was the accusation that we left the meeting or the Commission and were therefore against the anti-atomic policy line of Austria. [[Abg. Head: First agreed and then afterwards...!]] – That's not true! We have therefore resigned because the international liability of the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been doubted.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16916	However, this was not an actual correction! I'm just gonna hold that once again. [[Abg. Head: There was nothing to correct!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e16953	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! According to climate researchers, chaos reigns in the atmosphere. This does not differ from the climate policy of this federal government, for: Unfortunately, this federal government is characterized by chaos, standstill, inconsistency announcements and disputes. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have only said today in the “NEWS”, more or less: The ÖVP is in the hammock and does nothing. – You have to explain this to us later! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer) We would like to know that more precisely! Could you tell us something more accurate?]] In the meantime, two managing directors have been appointed for a new climate and energy fund, which is to implement up to €500 million by 2010 for meaningful, sustainable environmental projects. As has already been massively criticised by us in the parliamentary decision-making process, the activity of this fund has been severely affected by the red and black division of all functions. Only in order not to endanger the already non-existent Grand Coalitionary Peace will there be no less than four sectors involved in the decision-making process in the Energy Fund. The disputes that have already become a synonym for this government are also fully expressed here. Even from the funds made available in 2007, 10 percent were not exhausted. This is likely to be due to the lack of commitment of the applicants, since 600 applications have been received, but only 150 have been approved. Mr. Finanzminister Molterer has also promised to spend the proceeds from increasing the oil tax on diesel and petrol for climate protection. This has not been done so far, he has at least entered more than € 100 million. Of course, not precisely to improve the climate between red and black in the climate protection fund, the appointment of Mr. Andreas Wabl as the Federal Chancellor's personal climate protection officer has contributed. This is good and beautiful, but of course it does not contribute to climate protection at all, but quite the contrary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr. Wabl pursues his own interests – and not that of the general public! For example, he blockes the funding required by the Federal Minister for the 10 000 roof solar power programme, which would have been basically done and good, and instead wants funding for his own projects. Of course, as always, the many applicants for promotions in the interest of investments in renewable energy sources remain on the track – and not least climate protection. But nothing happens with regard to the other measures announced in the government programme on climate change. There was a very full-bodied promise, among other things: Promoting low-energy and passive budgetary standards was simply forgotten in the financial compensatory negotiations on the corresponding conditions. Or: Althaus renovations according to climate protection criteria, especially in the area of thermal renovation, development and use of energy-efficient devices and solutions. There is little passing; I can only agree with the colleagues of the Greens. As far as truck transport is concerned, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I am unfortunately not in agreement with you. [[Abg. Oillinger: You always agree with us, and then you will criticize us again!]] – Yes, but these are different topics. – There are no positive changes in the foreseeable future, but there are no free wagons and free capacity on the main transit routes. There is no more space and no more wagon that you could drive from Hamburg to the Black Sea or from the north to the south. Unfortunately, it is. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But trucks are enough!]] I don't think it makes sense to limit the speed of truck rides at night to 60 kilometres, especially on motorways. As has already been scientifically proven, the engine and gearbox produce the lowest CO2 emissions and the lowest noise at a speed of 80 kilometres. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, it is true that Austria has missed the right path and opportunity in the field of the growth market in climate protection. There is far too little investment in research and development here. Home companies in particular in the field of solar energy and photovoltaics do not have a market in Austria, as they are not supported enough. In the future, photovoltaics will prevail on the energy market, as the newly developed printed photocells will be much cheaper and the films can be printed everywhere. Photovoltaics also provides top current, which is also most expensive. The energy from geothermal energy and wind energy will also have to be a topic in the future, because they cost little and bring a lot. Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Schüssel, also called for this in the press hour. [[Call the ÖVP:Was very good!]] Yeah, I'm fine, too. But we also demand the guaranteed and unlimited preferred access to the power supply network for electricity generators from renewable energy sources, where, for example, Germany shows us how it works. The electricity operators are also required to invest more and not always vote against everything. If there is not a massive investment in this area and since the Federal Government does not finally wake up, the points in the urgent request of the Greens will be difficult or not feasible from today's point of view. I have to keep the greens in good hands: Of course, we already have to go over and make everyone aware of where development is going in order to achieve what we have prescribed in the climate objectives. I think that's very important. Finally, my request to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and to the entire Federal Government: Take climate protection seriously! Stop discussing – and finally start with the implementation! Otherwise this will be a very expensive fun for all Austrian residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17038	It now has Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17059	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Question climate protection – discussed several times in this House, the Greens constantly warmed up with announcements, but without concrete measures and proposals, as has already been done a few times today. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That is why I would like to make a few clarifications: Where are we? What is the challenge? What does this Federal Government, together with the Federal Government, countries and municipalities, do to pursue the climate change objectives and the energy objectives that cannot be seen separately and to guarantee their achievement? The first: Let's start from the question: What, for example, is the major challenge in the field of energy industry worldwide? – World energy consumption will rise by more than 50 percent by 2030, fossil fuels will remain the most important primary source of energy. China will soon replace the US as the world's largest energy consumer after 2010, and by 2030 80 percent of global emissions will be accounted for by the USA, China and India. These are the major trends in the world from which action needs to be taken in Austria, not only on the issue of achievement of objectives, but above all on the question of security of supply and energy provision for Austria and for the whole European Union. The European Union recently adopted a resolution on this subject on 23 November. January, by the Commission, in line with the objectives set by Europe, that is to say, minus 20 percent CO2 emissions by 2020, 20 percent alternative energy share in this period, presented the burden sharing for the individual Member States of the European Union. It's wise, I think how the division was done. The proposals are very ambitious for Austria: 34 percent of the share of alternative energy in this period and a re-dividualization in the reduction of the CO2 target on the basis of 2005, but the proposals are acceptable. The only thing we need to discuss is: Are the breakdown data used and the formulas between Member States also designed to re-establish competition within Europe, but to treat all of them in a balanced and fair manner? And this question will be discussed in both objectives, both in terms of CO2 reduction and also in terms of achieving the alternative energy target, namely the Environment Council, the Energy Council and, of course, in the Council itself, where the final allocation for both areas can then be determined. My basic position on the climate package is as follows: It is wise to define the industry in particular, to consider and then implement a common emission trading concept for European industry – the parameters are to be negotiated and discussed – and to set apart objectives for each Member State in the area of space heating, transport dynamics and in all other areas, for example agriculture, peripheral areas, which are also important to achieve the climate objective. These objectives are ambitious, but realistic, and above all we need to be careful – several previous speakers have already said – that we do not get under the wheels of this issue in the European industrial comparison. Why? – Austria is the third most successful country in the European Union in terms of CO2 emissions per unit of GDP. Sweden and Finland are ahead of us. Why are they in front of us? Because these are countries that have been offensively committed to nuclear power and therefore also have better CO2 values per GDP unit. In the issue of CO2 emissions per individual we are also in the good European middle. As we should not put our light under the umbrella, this has been a good success that we have achieved, and we must now ensure that the Austrian economy and, above all, the industry are not penalised with even more ambitious requirements. Now I come to the question of energy package, 34 per cent of alternative energy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is behind Finland, Sweden and Lithuania the fourth most successful country: 23 percent of the energy content of alternative energies in the total energy cake. I don't understand the criticism either. This did not come about by itself, Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, as you said, and where you thought that only the companies had invested would have developed. No, the specific political frameworks have also contributed to this, for example by promoting housing with the support of biomass. Where do the biomass heating plants come from for entire villages and villages in Austria, where we are leading in Europe? They come from promoting the federal, country and European Union. These are the concepts that have made this success story possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The expansion of hydropower was not designed by individual companies and EVUs, but jointly planned and implemented in federal and regional responsibility years and decades ago. This is also the merit of those who have made sure that we produce 60 percent of our electricity from hydropower. The question now is: How can we get from 23 percent to 34 percent – and reach 45 percent as a long-term political goal? This will require a mix of measures. Of course, we also need to go new ways in the Eco electricity Act and get the Eco electricity Act on the way. One thing to be said to you, especially from the Greens: In the small hydropower we need to expand, we encounter regional green resistance in almost all the planned stream and river runs. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I have experienced this over and over again with many individual projects. In almost all wind farm projects, we encounter massive resistance, especially from a green point of view, in concrete implementation in the regions. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Not at all!]] In the area of the expansion of biomass, even for the electricity, we are increasingly encountering your local criticism, which reads as follows: That would bring more fine dust, so you don't want biomass either! In the case of biogas, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you are increasingly entering the debate and saying: Please do not waste any biogas, the competitive situation with food and the agricultural sector is no longer to be resolved! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's the stupidest thing you can do! That's right, Andreas Wabl!]] Then I ask you: What do you want? How do you want to achieve the objective in the field of eco electricity? We have potential, but then you do not prevent all projects in this country, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, when you implement them in concrete terms! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria, however, is not only a leader in the relation of CO2 to gross domestic product, but we have also created a trend change with the measures we have envisaged and already implemented in the climate strategy. You always forget this when you present the statistics, ladies and gentlemen. In comparison... – I know that you will be nervous in this comparison because he is correct and goes in the right direction, Mrs Glavischnig, but nevertheless: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The trend change was already over in 2007!]] In 2006, we were able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2.3 percent compared to the previous year, in other words 2.2 million tonnes in 2005. That's a more noticeable, a bigger step than we've ever done before, in the right direction. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This was the warmest winter of the century, but please!]] We are still lacking 11 million tonnes, but with the measures we have put in place and will continue to put in place, from the transport sector to space heating to the question of cooperation with the federal states in the development of housing, with the increase in the mineral oil tax we have decided to increase the addition – and again and again again – of criticism from your ranks; the addition has brought us the largest share of these 2.2 million tonnes of CO2 reduction, we want to expand it – so with this mix we will be able to achieve both our objectives from Kyoto commitment and the objectives that we will be able to meet in the European Union. This is good for ecology, is good for economy, for the economy in this country. I'm just saying something about that. Yes, we should – and I am grateful that the Federal Chancellor has also said – also support new technologies from the Climate and Energy Fund and help them break through; the photovoltaic has been addressed. [[Abg. Mandak: Do it!]] That is why it is the task not only to think purely economic but, of course, to set up projects that need our special support in order to get through the market. That is why I am going to force this 10,000-threading programme, which I consider to be the starting point for smart, quite massively, because it is important that we also move on in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17181	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17202	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Yes, Minister, that was your luck, 2006 was a warm winter, and that was the main reason why CO2 emissions were declining. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Stop it, stop it, stop it!]] But what's that mean by luck? We urgently need a CO2 reduction, and if you are talking about targets in large measure, the question is: What are the measures? You can't say on a tour: Internationally it looks like this, and the development will be that way, but we have to put the measures here. Putting on fairness, Minister, that's too little. And, my colleague, Bayr, don't hide, throwing nebula grenades is something that isn't appropriate for climate protection. Finally, the government is required. Mr Minister, if you ask: What are your concrete proposals and measures?, then it is quite clear: It is about energy efficiency, an energy efficiency strategy that we are missing, because it is exactly where the responsibilities are located, that there is a hack that you carry out via media, and because nothing goes on. If you are serious about it, then there must be a clear research offensive, and it is very likely that it is also a matter of committing and using other funds for this purpose, or of linking economic support to climate change objectives. If you look at the residential area that has a huge savings potential, you have to say: It is still overdue that housing development is finally linked directly to climate change objectives. Even now in the financial compensatory negotiations, this has not been implemented, which is long since necessary. It is also about taking advantage of the opportunities for the labour market and promoting housing renovation. This too is long overdue. I'm not talking about traffic where long distances are big brachland when it comes to climate protection. If you are implementing the Eco electricity Act on how important the photovoltaic is, then a sentence on it: With the Renewable Energy Act in Germany, more than 200 000 jobs have been created to save more than 44 million tonnes of CO2 in 2006, that is to say a huge cost savings. And it has been achieved by saying and writing 600 times more on photovoltaic power than in Austria in 2006. That's what you need to imagine, this order of magnitude: 600 times more than in Austria! And, of course, the question is why. After Mr. Kopf, who is now outside, quoted the company Fronius, which has already been made several times today, I would like to quote you from a letter from Klaus Fronius of 19. In December 2007, the owner of the much-quoted, very successful company in Upper Austria, quote with 2 000 employees, with a significant research budget in the field of photovoltaics. Minister, Federal Chancellor, Fronius clearly writes: However, I do not want to hide that we feel very left out of the politics of the eco electricity law. There is nothing going on here, and the expansion of an industry such as photovoltaics is not possible under the current and planned framework conditions. - Quote. Yes, and they are very closely referring to the novel that Bartenstein has presented, which can thus be judged with a smooth not enough. Today, when the “Climaparadies Austria” is spoken of and numbers are strained, there are some figures and facts where we actually stand. Austria's electricity consumption increases above average compared to EU values. Energy intensity has deteriorated constantly, and this has been happening since 1990. You really have to imagine that. One thing has been noted for the praised CO2 efficiency: Since, Minister, we are in Austria in the EU section, calculated per head. And so, of course, the question arises as to what are the promises you, Mr Chancellor, Minister, have made in permanence, which you have set out in the government programme. You have the opportunity today to confirm your government programme in this form so that you seriously mean climate protection. I therefore make the following requests. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17257	Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is not how it is done. They must read each application for themselves; otherwise, it is not properly filed.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17272	Now the last of the requests: Resolution of the Members Van der Bellen, Glawischnig, colleagues on energy check at all Austrian households by 2010 The National Council wants to decide: The Austrian Federal Government is invited to make at least the following point from the government programme for the XXIII. Implementation of the legislative period: Energy check for all Austrian households by 2010 (Government Programme, page 75) So a lot of measures that Austria would be very likely to take. But the question is: Is it actually going to happen in this form, and are you today also on these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17363	The four motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker have just been properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17543	Mr Steier has now come to speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17564	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start the discussion on this urgent question by giving a few figures to illustrate to our listeners. A look at the Eighth Environmental Control Report clearly identifies key areas of future action in the field of climate protection. In 2005, greenhouse gas emissions were 18 percent above the base year and 36 percent above the Kyoto target. The main contaminants were transport of 27 percent, industry with 27 percent, energy supply of 17 percent as well as space heat and other small consumers with 17 percent. For comparison: According to the Seventh Environmental Control Report, the deviation from the Kyoto target in 2001 was 16.8 percent. The six main contaminants in greenhouse gas emissions were industry with 27 percent, transport by 23 percent, small consumers by 18 percent, energy supply by 17 percent and agriculture by 9 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, this development of the data shows two things very clearly, namely that the measures that have been taken in recent years have not been sufficient in the case of an item. And our lifestyle, but above all our dealings with energy and raw materials are not targeted enough at weitem. The efficient use of resources, the abandonment of unnecessary consumption, is a very essential and central element. And that must apply to all areas of life. This is where politics, the economy, but also society as a whole is called for. Mr. Federal Chancellor and many of my previous speakers have pointed out that climate protection is a cross-sectional matter, but we can only stand together without adding up to each other in a form, to excite fears, to take some people's courage to engage in this matter, to deal with this matter. On the political side, we are invited to give guidance to all people, to take them along and also to involve them in this matter so that they can effectively link their objectives with those of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, information and knowledge about savings potentials are still flawed, because in almost all sectors there are considerable potential for increase in energy and material efficiency. This begins with the role model of policy and goes to the consumer. Then: The daily decisions we make on the market are a decisive impulse and the answer to the current and future environmental and economic challenges. In this context, I should like to break a lance for all those responsible in the rural sector who have been working for years with all possible commitment to renewable energy, not only in the field of biomass, but also in the field of solar technology, photovoltaics, lighting, thermal renovation, among other things, to achieve a model for countries and for the federal government. A warm thanks to all the mayors or local authorities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! The issue of lifestyle is also reflected in the waste management sector, which was involved in greenhouse gas emissions by 2.4 percent in 2005. From 1996 to 2004, the total amount of waste has grown almost as much as our economic volume. And in the future there is a further increase to be expected. This leads me to a very up-to-date development in this area, to have worked with tariff manipulations to blame the ARA system. The ARA system is the largest player in the field of Austrian waste management and in the collection and recovery of packaging waste from household, industry and industry. For years there have been rumors about systematic miscalculations of the ARA, i.e. concretely that the ARA is deliberately too deep an estimate of the amount of packaging that occurs, in order to achieve higher tariffs than necessary. In this way, the competition was severely affected, and as a result, we consumers were also affected in the final consequence. We have repeatedly criticized enough in recent years and asked the question: How can it be that a non-profit company has three-digit surpluses? And why has the ARA, as a monopoly in the household sector, made unlawful cross-subsidisation between household and commercial collection? We all wondered what is actually going on with the control of the Ministry of the Environment, which simply tolerates such events at the expense of consumers over years. At last there is an investigation report from the Federal Competition Authority, which puts the allegations on the spot, and hopefully – and that is really to be hoped – will help to resolve these shortcomings in the system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In view of the seriousness of the accusations made by the Federal Competition Authority, you, Mr Pröll, would be well advised to carry out a special examination of the ARA system with our agreement, from the point of view of There is 1993 in terms of efficiency, sensibleness, use of resources and control. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17634	Next, Mr. Ing. School speaking. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17656	Thank you, Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I understand that Mrs Glavischnig, who comes from Carinthia, is putting the issue of climate protection on the agenda today, because the storm “Paula”, actually the “Sturm Paula”, or I do not know how to say there in the Greens, at least this disaster has caused something terrible, and it has again become clear to us that this issue is hot – as hot as the Maroni, which Mr. Wabl has to get out of the fire for the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Oillinger: Maroni is good!]] I congratulate Mr Wabl on the special selection and ability of Mr Van der Bellen; now he is, so to speak, the Maronibrater of the Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I didn't say that!]] In any case, this issue of climate protection policy concerns – quite dry – issues such as reforms, changes, adaptations, new lifestyles, efficiencys, extreme economic activities on the one hand and areas that go deep into our lives on the other. Therefore, all the changes are that they are majority-powered on the one hand, but on the other hand they are safe for the future and on the third side they do not disturb and hinder the competitiveness of our system and our economy. That means we have to analyze exactly what is happening. And if we see that since 2004, energy price increases in principle make each Austrian poorer per year by €1,000, because it loses purchasing power, purchasing power that goes out of Austria and becomes effective in Kazakhstan, then this naturally has consequences that cannot be compensated for by the development of purchasing power. That is the biggest burden on our economy at the moment. And that is why everything that is going on in the direction of energy saving and improving efficiency is, in principle, right. When we consider that, according to official estimates, Europe will assume that we will also import 200 to 300 billion m3 of natural gas by 2020, because the dependence will just rise massively – we currently have 57 percent import, and we will then import 84 percent of natural gas – then we know that the situation will be dramatic at every level. I myself live near Baumgarten, where this natural gas takeover station is – about 50 billion m3 come in. Gazprom has just acquired half this gas hub and is also keenly interested in buying networks and power plants – a topic that we have to think very seriously about, because the closer Gazprom is to the customer, the less we have the possibility of choosing the energy source. The fact is that this tree garden is for us a matter where we also need to consider the question of security. It is also about security in the future of our energy supply. Baumgarten is the largest gas hub in Europe, and there is not even a watchdog at night. It doesn't take care of it because you're so sure in Austria. The fact is that only those power plants operating in the towns building on a bioenergy basis are really safe, the 22,000 hacking furnaces that are operating with us today. The plants that build on the fact that they process the products of our fields are really safe. I am also pleased that Mrs Bayr has studied the European Union's documents carefully. We see that the new joint paper actually requires that the efficiency of energy production from agriculture in Europe be assessed. And she says 35 percent would have to be the lower limit. I also think that's the lower limit. This applies to those who can't prove anything themselves. We in Austria can present the figures and know that we have an efficiency of 55 percent, both with ethanol and diesel, i.e. with vegetable oil. And if we also use straw from these areas as an energy source, we even have an efficiency of 70 percent. The only thing that is still missing in order to bring these good Austrian energy sources into the market is a sufficient adaptation. If it hits there, then also the gas stations for E85 are missing. Because this is the possibility that every Austrian can decide for himself where he is tanking, even in Austria our superethanol can get his money in Austria. What is missing is a corresponding gas station network. Promoting and developing this gas station network is an important task of the KLIEN Fund, and I expect that there will be strong impulses next year because it makes sense. A request to the Greens: Stop it all or nothing! It frightens people and paralyzes them, scares them. That's not necessary. We have many opportunities in Austria to take good steps. I would therefore say: Please go along, stay constructive and don't prevent good projects now! Austria is moving on.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17713	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17735	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Once again, the Greens managed to raise the climate hysteria to the dogma. The application shows that they do not address facts that they only care for fear and panic and shape fatalistic statements to conjure up an environmental horror scenario that ends civilisation. Since the Star report or the IPCC report is being retrieved over and over again, I have to say: He doesn't get any more true when he's quoting! This is only a possible view of the truth. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! If your wife says Glawischnig, all those who do not follow this dogma would have the right to speak and would not be entitled to speak here, I must say: Of the Greens, we certainly do not have the right to speak. – Perhaps as an explanation to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is striking here is a new ideology. You want to explain everything you say is right and anything else could be wrong. And that's not the point. They apparently want to create a new global climate dictatorship and return to the Stone Age. Do you want to ride the wheel? I have recently experienced that Mr. Pilz, not with the wheel, but across and across Vienna, is only driving by car. I'm on my way with the wheel. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Become realistic!]] – Only so much about the implementation in your own ranks. But a few facts to clarify, ladies and gentlemen from the Greens, that there is also a different view of climate and climate development. And the following: CO2 is not a poison. If CO2 were not in the atmosphere, there would be no assimilation, there would be no plant growth, no humans, no animals. – That only once as a fact. A scale that is also very interesting for you: When we count all the emissions that man produces from CO2, we come about 5 billion tons a year. The cars produce about 2.1 billion tons a year, man by exhaling about 2.4 billion tons. That means, in total, it's only one to four percent, estimated at the total CO2 emissions, which we can experience worldwide, because the world oceans and volcanoes and natural activities of the Earth's atmosphere also contribute to CO2 emissions. - That's what I'm talking about. And something else, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, also against your climate hysteria: There are investigations by the Niels-Bohr-Institute in Copenhagen, according to which these fluctuations in the climate system are always there, every 1,470 years just such fluctuations occur. There is also the Institute of Paleoclimatology in Heidelberg, which repeatedly speaks of natural variables in the climate, where we can also experience that there has always been warm winter, just as it is now. I'm saying there are other points of view, and I don't want to. Leave their opinion as the only one and therefore do not necessarily talk about a human-made climate disaster. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The danger of your standing alone is indeed greater!]] That means, we also think one step further where your ideas lead, which is to be good for everything that is provided with the accelerator “bio”. This has ultimately led to the fact that without questioning everything that has been done in these areas is also presented as good. An example, ladies and gentlemen from the Greens: These JI/CDM stupidities have also grown on your dung. We give out our technology across the world. In Brazil we make landfill gas plants, in New Zealand we also make landfill gas plants, wind farms in Estonia. This we give, financed by our tax funds, from our resources, with our technology and receive zero return. That's something you've fabricated with. This is total nonsense, not only economic policy, but also our knowledge. We give in to our knowledge, we give out our technology without return – a result of your biophanties. But now there are some facts that are so crucial to the future of our economy. They say that the industry must now be held responsible and, above all, aluminium, chemical, steel, cement industries must not continue to do so. Do you know what that means when we extract these large industries from Europe? – There were about 100,000 jobs lost. Are you aware of that? Do you really want that? Something else, for your calculations – think You're right with me! –: In Carinthia there is a plant called OMYA, which produces high-quality basic materials for the paint and varnish industry. Calcium carbonate is divided in this process chain, and it requires thermal energy, where CO2 is released. This CO2 tax is charged to the operation. In the process of further finishing CaO, CaCO3 – which is easy to calculate – becomes again from the CaO, and the same amount of CO2 goes back into this process sequence. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] These CO2 volumes are not taken into account for these industries. This means that you simply ignore these numbers by not taking note that such a thing is also included in an overall balance sheet. The result is that, if we drive this industry out of Europe, of course, it will produce it elsewhere. And where will she go? – In countries where environmental standards are far lower than with us and where environmental technology does not work. Mr. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer said quite correctly that, for example, the Magnesade in China produces three to four times the environmental pollution and that the electro-particle separators in Europe have a very high standard, and therefore it is an environmental nonsense to remove these productions from Europe. – These were just a few examples. What you want to do here is a blow to the European industry and thus also to the Austrian industry. This is certainly not the right way. Consider, come back to the facts, to what we really need! The only approach that is right is: We have to deal with the resources gently. We need to look at alternative energies. We need to strengthen research in the field of energy. That's quite right! [[Abg. Oillinger: This is the first exciting aspect you present!]] But your background thoughts are completely wrong and your reasoning leads to facts being distorted, which is absolutely not helpful to this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17815	The next speaker is Mrs Ursula Haubner. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17839	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am right in saying to the Greens that this Federal Government is in the process of failure on climate protection issues. But this is not so much because it has no objectives, because there are not enough summit talks, because too few climate summits are held, but this is ultimately due to the acting persons themselves, who should actually work together or together. Unfortunately, however, no one trusts the other properly, even if he is in the hammock, and as a result, a failure is already preprogrammed. I mean, if you want to achieve these very ambitious goals, such as, for example, winning 80 percent of the electricity from renewable energy by 2010, you have to lay a tooth and, as it were, try hard to get the programmes that are intended to motivate people to switch to other forms of energy. We have heard today that energy costs are rising extremely and that electricity consumption is also exploding, and I mean: That's where you have to sit! Energy costs must not rise, and climate protection must nevertheless be taken into account. If Mr Pröll, who is not here now, says that he is starting the '10 000 roof programme', a start-up financing, I must say: That is absolutely welcome! Only: I hope this program will start soon! But basically need It is more than just a “9 000 roof program”, because Carinthia, which is a pioneer again, has already launched a “1,000 roof program” in the previous year, and this is very successful and very noticeable for people too. I would also like to address a particular problem of credibility in this government, which concerns anti-atomic policy. At present, from our point of view, there is no real and honest commitment by the government towards Temelín, with regard to nuclear power stations close to the border. It supports nuclear policy indirectly at EU level by giving its consent to texts at the European Council, such as in March 2007, where the contribution of nuclear energy in response to the growing concern about the Energy security and CO2 emission reduction are clearly maintained. But to what directly concerns us in Austria, we have not actually heard anything from the government for a long time. At this point I would point out that we are here in this House on 14 November. A resolution was adopted unanimously by December in which the Federal Government was called, in particular, to initiate a international lawsuit against the Czech Republic for the breach of the international and international law treaty concluded between the Czech Republic and the Republic in the event that the Czech Republic does not immediately demonstrate the implementation of all open questions. – This “immediate” has really disintegrated into air. We all here – including the opposition – have agreed to a constructive interparliamentary dialogue with the Czech colleagues. 13 months we've been talking to each other. There were three meetings, but still the most important issues have not been resolved. And I say quite honestly: I cannot imagine that these important questions are still being clarified and that we can expect something to happen. That is why I understand everyone who has left this Commission. The willingness of each individual to do so is very slow, because the fundamental question of international liability – and that is what it has ultimately been about – has not been clarified to this day, this task has been postponed over and over again. When I remember that only recently the Czech Prime Minister Topolánek visited Mr. German Chancellor Gusenbauer and said in an interview that the Milk Protocol is not binding on the Czech Republic and that he hopes that Europe will experience a renaissance of the nuclear power, I mean: That's where the alarm bells have to shriek! In addition, I would have expected the Chancellor of the Federal Republic really vehemently to represent the Austrian opinion and opinion of all the parties represented here in Parliament. That's why I'm going to say straight and clear: We cannot continue to take a custodial course here, we cannot hold further meetings just to achieve that the government has a clear conscience, or to create employment therapy for us parliamentarians, but now this Causa has to be raised to a different level, at the government level, and there it has to be negotiated very seriously. It has to be said quite clearly that the Milk Agreement is not just an indifferent bilateral treaty or an agreement between two countries, but that this Agreement is subject to international law. I expect the government – particularly the Chancellor – to represent the interests of Austria and also the interests of the people in the field of security, which is very much at risk, as long as there are still insecurity problems. Ladies and gentlemen! credible climate protection also needs a credible anti-atomic policy! And there is a fair and binding commitment to the safety of border nuclear power plants. But I clearly miss that with this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17898	Mrs Kranzl, Secretary of State, spoke from the government bank. I put the clock at the desired 10 minutes speaking time – please, Mrs State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17921	Mr President. High house! I would like to refer to the statements made by Dipl.-Ing. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. – It is important to me at this point to stress that anyone who has been seriously involved in the Fourth UN Climate Report, who, scientifically proven, documents what will happen if nothing happens, I believe, would not resort to this choice of words. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ as well as detonative applause with the greens.]] On Monday I had the pleasure of attending the “Viennanergy 2008” event with Nobel Laureater Mr. Pachauri. Pachauri has presented the facts very impressively there, and I believe that there is nothing to do with it. The fact is, we already feel that this is the most different impact, whether it is the storm disaster of the past weekend or that from just one year ago, whether it is the flood disaster of 2002 that I have experienced in close proximity – that the climate will change considerably if the CO2 load remains the same as it is at present. If it is said here that CO2 is not unhealthy, it always comes to measure and quantity, then I have to say: The fact is – and this is confirmed – that this scenario predicts global warming up to 6 degrees, that snow coverings and glaciers – these are areas that are largely related to Austria – will decline and that health consequences will come to us, in addition to the consequences raised, such as energy conservation and so on. I do not want to address these facts, which you all know, but rather the ambitious goals set by this Federal Government. That's where I have to contradict you and say: We are well aware that this is really the great challenge of the next few years and decades that affects us people, every one of us, no matter what ideology belongs to one or another. These objectives are included in the government programme. In my opinion, however, the objectives set by the European Commission and the results of Bali are also going in the right direction. But I would also like to mention some best-practice examples. And you're right if you say, How can we achieve these objectives? How can we actually contribute to reducing CO2 emissions? It is very important to stress: There will never be a single recipe for everything, but there will have to be a set of measures, a mix of measures. I would like to focus on four areas. The first area – and I agree completely with you here – is energy efficiency. It is very important and important to develop a strategy, namely the entire energy path, from the resource to the consumer. But there are many areas that have not yet been mentioned. It is important not only that each individual in the household consciously deal with energy, but that, in my opinion, goes a step further, namely that overall product development needs to be completely rethinked, which means that, in principle, the development of goods, of goods, must also be put under the energy efficiency aspect. But this is a task that will not be achieved from today to tomorrow. This is a process that needs to be carefully thought out. In the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, we are trying to create our own programmes, which support these process developments, these process developments, in order to gain, in particular, undertakings to allow this energy efficiency to flow into future product development. Another essential area, in my opinion, is intelligent use of energy, i.e. use of energy if it cannot be substituted or supplemented by other measures. I mean, in order to also give an example, that cities and communities in particular are invited to develop spatial planning in such a way as to make optimal use of natural resources. I call myself a hundred percent for the even greater use of solar energy by solar technology. I believe that Austria can have enormous potential in this area, as every third solar collector installed in Europe is known to come from Austrian production. I also call myself a hundred percent to much stronger force of photovoltaics. I have so far been able to underline this at various events. In this area, I believe that the existing potential has not yet been used. I am therefore very pleased to hear that, in the context of the revision of the Ecostrom Act, also Federal Minister Pröll is considering a much stronger promotion of photovoltaics. Photovoltaic, Dear Ladies and gentlemen, as it seems, it counts much more abroad. Austrian companies complain that 97 percent of the plants produced are exported, unfortunately only 3 percent are in contact with Austria itself. Of course, something has to happen. It is even more important to highlight the advantages of photovoltaics. Of course, the economic sector, which is particularly concerned with alternative possibilities, is a booming area. The figures speak for themselves. Employment has increased by 40 percent in this area since 2005 and export quotas have partly increased by 100 percent, thus doubling. I keep stressing: It can be a win-win situation to put into research and development of new technologies. The development of new technologies is a central point. This is a win-win situation, because if Austria manages to be the first to develop new technologies quickly, then not only the Austrian market is waiting for it, but a European market is waiting for us and sometimes a global market. The second area, which is very important, is the design of buildings. They know that the majority of the Austrian buildings still originate from the post-war period, that in this insulation, power lines, installations and so on there is a condition to be renovated accordingly. There, I think, are the best instruments to adapt the housing support of the countries, which, of course, are even more appropriate. I can remember that our Federal Ministry initiated a very good programme line a few years ago: “House of the Future”, “Fabric of the Future”, “Energy Systems of the Future”, where the Passive House has been forced accordingly. I am of your opinion that it would also be preferable if we were not just leaders in the number of passive houses, but we are still in the forefront of the world, as measured by the population of Austria, with 2,000 passive homes. In the meantime, this is not only applied to residential construction, home construction, but also to the office area. I should also like to give an example at this point: Upper Austria has also applied passive house standard to the renovation of a school building. And what the surprise has been for me: that the bill has shown that the recovery costs are only 10 percent above the cost of a conventional renovation. This should certainly move us to force this technology. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] The Nobel Prizewinner, Mr. Pachauri, also presented quite impressively the causes: These are primarily our own four walls. There are, I think, many possibilities. There will be a continuation of the ‘House of the Future’ programme. This is in the direction of energy-producing building, towards building integration. I've chosen my own slogan: My house as a power plant. That's what it's all about: How can I get the necessary energy from what nature provides? How can I save? How can I sometimes use excess energy for my vehicle? This idea fascinates me absolutely. Another area is transport; this point has already been raised. I believe that I have made an impressive point that in principle we must do everything we can to remove, in particular, the transport of goods from the road to environmentally friendly modes of transport, including on the waterways. There is an ambitious programme on this from Mr Faymann, where over €11 billion is spent on funds. However, there are also capacity available in the water road sector, which I believe is far from being used. This too will not be possible from today to tomorrow. It just takes longer to make this road attractive. The idea has been born to force container service on the waterway, to offer a solution, especially for goods that are bulky. These are to be transported by Austria accordingly. This is my intention, and I say quite consciously: I would like to say to the road that it is because, as all the forecasts show, Austria's central position will increase its traffic in our country. That's a fact, that's a fact! But it will not be possible without truck traffic, because of course you need individual traffic, delivery to the consumer, delivery and delivery. So without that, it won't go either. Another area that is very important to me is the formation of consciousness. No question at all, let us be honest: We could all probably walk more on foot, ride more by bike instead of by car. I don't take care of it at all. I mean, that's where we're all called. I don't think I can say now that we can't fly on vacation anymore or now we can't drive by car anymore, but a targeted awareness campaign to motivate each individual, sometimes to give up on the car – it also has advantages – I support. I also recognise the need to make much more people able to change to public transport. You have seen the approach or the suggestion to provide a network card for public transport at the end of a car insurance scheme, without costing consumers – I emphasize: without costing consumers! – is at least worth discussing, because if the insurance industry were to check carefully how many accidents occur in the transport sector, in short sections of transport, then we would see that this is sometimes an attractive offer, a win-win situation for both. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Sburny.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, especially in the area of alternative drives/fuels, I can point to a special programme, namely IV2S+, which contains four programme lines and is mainly about alternative drives/fuels. Hydrogen, I think, has a very high probability of presenting a very crucial source of energy in a few years. But it is also about programme lines such as the development of an interoperable container service: How can the various modes of transport communicate much better? – These are projects that go exactly in the direction, which the Green Group rightly underlines here. I would like to conclude by saying: I understand myself and our house as an open house. It has also been mentioned by previous speakers that this is a problem that affects all of us. I am very open to proposals that have benefits and can be implemented. I have already announced in a personal conversation that I would like to invite all the research speakers to a joint discussion. I hope that they will also follow this invitation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e17987	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 6 minutes' speaking time; maximum speaking time of the Group: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18008	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! The ministers and the Chancellors of the Federal Republic have long been looking for the scope, because climate protection is something to be addressed briefly, but immediately we are looking for the outcome when it comes to the concrete measures. Mrs Minister...! - Excuse me, of course, if you were a minister, because of what you have now announced. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] Mrs. „Future Minister“, Mrs. State Secretary Kranzl, you referred to: We have a win-win situation. As you can win, this has already shown the country Upper Austria with this jacket. [[The speaker refers to a red garment with the inscription “climaterettung”, which she herself wears.]] I took part in a competition for climate protection, because it was an efficient use of energy, because it filled out questionnaires, and 14 days later I was in possession of this magnificent jacket. The problem is just: What is the use of the jacket if I have already changed my life individually, but around it the social, economic and social conditions are such that the individual action is cut down, simply cut off, because it does not fit in the overall context? [[Abg. Murauer: But not in Upper Austria!]] Mrs. State Secretary, you have shown a broad scenario. I would like to raise the point once again: The climate issue is a central social issue! If the heating costs rise when the buildings are badly insulated when the heating systems are inefficient, who gets the fastest and the worst? – The pensioners and pensioners! What if fuel prices rise if public transport is not properly expanded if trams are not in the required frequency range? – Of course the people who don’t have a car! Those who cannot afford this and who depend on general transport services. The climate issue and the energy transition question is a social issue of distribution. That is why I expect a lot more commitment from social democracy, a lot more ambition, a lot more credibility and word strength. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is what it is all about: that you stand by your word, as is stated in the Government Convention. That is why I am also putting forward motions for resolutions. You've already determined what we all want, just don't do it! This is always the problem: The individual is supposed to do it, but you as a government fail in legislation. That is why, Mrs State Secretary: Let's make a win-win situation! I would also like to give the West to you, but you must first agree to our requests. She's already from a Social Democratic Councillor, I have to say that. These are the following applications: [[Quoted print version removed]] Second request: Motion for a resolution by Members Van der Bellen, Glavischnig, colleagues on the doubling of biomass use by 2010 “The National Council wants to decide: The Austrian Federal Government is invited to make at least the following point from the government programme for the XXIII. Implementation of the legislative period: Doubling biomass use by 2010 (Government Programme, page 75).’ A third request: Motion for a resolution by Members Van der Bellen, Glavischnig, colleagues on renewable energy increases to 45 percent by 2020 "The National Council wants to decide: The Austrian Federal Government is invited to make at least the following point from the government programme for the XXIII. Implementation of the legislative period: Net revenue-neutral increase in renewable energy in total energy consumption to at least 25 percent by 2010 and doubling to 45 percent by 2020 (Government Programme, page 75).” Ms. State Secretary! Clubmen – Mr. stupid is perhaps here! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He reads the stock exchange reports in the newspaper!]] Finally, take your own program seriously! I'll tell you: You meant the promotion of housing. This is, as it were, a social and economic win-win-total effect when I finally raise the standards throughout Austria and do not negligently deal with Article 15a agreements, which I then rely on for years until they are implemented. We need uniform, offensive standards for construction as well as for housing, from Burgenland to Vorarlberg, from Neusiedlersee to Lake Constance. That's not a question of being fooled, but you're finally making nails with heads. The second Win-Win situation, Mrs State Secretary, has already been discussed. That's what I wrote, because it was really fascinating: You say “the road to the battle, ” you said. I've never dared to do that before; I'm telling the energy wasters on the street to fight. I am massively in favour of you in your house – you have called it an “open house” – in this beautiful, open house at last significantly increasing public transport support contributions. What do we have now? – € 11 million annually for offensive, innovative projects. Please, under black and blue it was 7.8 million. And what do we need? – 100 million € we need! That is where we should invest, but not pay 2.5 billion to the EU or to institutions other than ponales, if we do not reach the Kyoto target. Why don't we use this money to change now and make proper housing offers to those who really need to make proper mobility offers? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, this is Win-Win, and I am particularly missing the help of social democracy. At last do climate protection policy with punch – and not glacé gloves, like the Minister of Transport, who does not even dare to do a most increase! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18107	The next speaker is Mrs Lueger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18128	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear colleagues at the Hohenhaus! In my opinion, the urgent request made by the Greens today is underlined by an article in today’s “Kurier”, in which there is a sentence by the clubman Van der Bellen, whom I would like to quote here: “At confession level, all climate defenders are first rank. But nothing is done.” First of all, I would like to strongly contradict this example, and I can show it on the basis of some projects in Vienna. In 1999, climate change is already the first time in the world. the programme of protection has been decided in Vienna, and I am in favour of it. Climate protection is a bundle of measures and is not limited to: Transport and electricity: 241 measures in 36 action packages, total in five areas of action; let me quote some of them. It happens a lot, it belongs of course further expanded, but there is already something there. Ferro-heating and electricity generation: The combined heat and power plants and technologies have reduced the annual carbon dioxide emissions by 700 000 tonnes each year compared to the separate production of electricity and district heating. In addition, sophisticated filter systems ensure that the exhaust gases are cleaned. In 2001 the power plant Donaustadt 3 was opened. With its efficiency of 86 percent, the gas turbine plant makes an important contribution to the security of supply of the city of Vienna. Europe's largest bioforest mass power plant is in Simmering, which has been in Simmering since 4. On September 1, 2006, some 50,000 households were supplied with electricity and some 12,000 households in addition to district heating. Compared to a conventional thermal power plant, it saves 144,000 tons of CO2 annually. Since autumn 2007, 10 000 tonnes of biogenic waste have been used in the biogas-Vienna plant. In January 2006, a drinking water power plant was built on the part of the Vienna Waterworks at the Vienna High Source Water Line. There has been a wind farm in Vienna since mid-December 2005. The largest photovoltaic system is not far from here: the next block, the Bartenstein block. This is technology developed by the Magistrate itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The WIEN ENERGIE / WIENSTROM GmbH, however, ensures that sound protection can be combined with energy production with innovative projects, such as the Theodor-Körner-Hofe on the Margareten belt. Other numerous eco-electric plants were realized: more than a hundred photovoltaic plants, two small hydropower plants – one in Nußdorf and one in Simmering – and a landfill gas electricity plant at the Rautenweg and several wind turbines in Vienna and around Vienna. Earth heat was used for the first time in the digging of the Lainzer tunnel, where we now fire a sports high school. The first subway in the world, which is both cooled and heated with global heat, is in Vienna; the first three stations already exist. The whole goes further over living, over the city administration and many, many other points. I would therefore like to conclude relatively quickly; this is just a short break from what is actually happening. I'm already on Mrs. Moser's side: It can only be a win-win situation. If other federal states join, it can only be an advantage for the future of the Austrians. In my opinion, climate protection is not a product that has an end date, but it is a process that needs to be adapted with new projects and new ideas. Vienna is certainly a very good example. This has been confirmed – as Mrs State Secretary has already mentioned – at “Viennanergy”, which took place on Monday. The Nobel Peace Prizewinner has confirmed that we are on the right track. So I come back to the starting quote that I can't understand in any way. There are – and I hope I have listed some of them to you – many, many variants of how we can do this. It is not enough to list, it is not enough to place wishes – we do a constructive cooperation in the Senses of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18203	I declare that the three motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Moser are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18335	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18356	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I would like to support clearly and clearly what you, Mrs. State Secretary Kranzl, said earlier, namely that climate protection is also something that begins in their own four walls. I believe that there is already a piece of work ahead of us to carry out in this direction of raising awareness that it is not only about politics and what individual continents contribute to climate protection, but also about individual people, the individual. If, as Mrs Moser said earlier, and I also support this, we do not take measures to protect climate, if we do not save energy and provide efficient alternatives in time, then this can become quite expensive. I believe that it is precisely this that needs to be focused even more on the awareness of the population. When it comes to every individual being careful: if I turn off electronic devices or not, I use the subway, if I drive the car et cetera, this is not only an important contribution to saving CO2 emissions, but it is also linked to a cost reduction. I believe that this is an aspect that can be quite attractive to the individual to do something in this direction. If heating costs get higher because thermal insulation no longer works, the wallet also recognises that it is important to take action both in politics and as individual measures. We can only support this on the part of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Politically speaking, we are, of course, in the duty to do something for climate protection. We not only have the opportunities to do so, but we also have the responsibility. The Federal Government is aware of this responsibility and, accordingly, has already launched measures, for example, with the climate strategy, an adjustment already in the Council of Ministers. 180 measures were included. Let me give you a few examples. We have created incentives for environmentally friendly cars and environmentally friendly alternative drives: 300 € for cars, 500 € for alternative drives. But also the increase in mineral oil tax by 3 cents for petrol or 5 cents for diesel, which by 1. A measure under this climate change package was entered into force on July 2007. This also applies to biofuels and the increase in the addition to 4.3 percent. Last but not least, we set up a climate and energy fund, which was created on 3 March. In December 2007, it was a matter of taking money into the hands of: € 45 million for 150 projects, which have been and are to be supported; and we have expected to make €500 million available by 2010. However, the 2007 environmental promotion is also tangible, which has been increased from € 8.2 million to €90.2 million. These are at least 785 tons of CO2 savings and in total almost 3,000 projects; this is a plus of 25 percent. This too must be put in the foreground, otherwise you would almost give the impression that nothing would happen in the field of climate protection in Austria. The opposite is the case! The only thing I would like to do is to focus more on research, namely research in the field of alternative energy sources, because I believe it will be important here to make investments in the future. If we, all the parties, put down our flaws here, namely between government and opposition, then we will also be able to view the luxury of nature not only as such, but also in the sense of generation justice to ensure that our children and our grandchildren can also grow up in a clean environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18407	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18429	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Climate policy, environmental policy, energy policy – all of this is very close together. I have looked at a few figures – and therefore also this booklet. Dr. Van der Bellen has submitted a book to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany; I will also hand over this to Mrs. State Secretary Kranzl. We have also compiled one because we believe that, if they pursue their objectives, opposition parties also have the responsibility to say exactly how they are doing. That's why the accusation is not true, if it's said again and again: You are only criticizing, but you are not saying how we are going to create this energy turnaround! – We, like the Greens, have recorded this in a book and come to similar results. Let's take a look at some numbers. In the period 1995 to 2005, expenditure on oil in Austria has quadrupled, which is an enormous value. For every Austrian – whether baby or grey – there are 1 000 euros per year for fossil energy sources in foreign countries. This means that we have no choice but to introduce this energy transition in Austria because of the ultimateity of these fossil energy sources. You have to agree on the way there. Let us take a look at how long oil can be expected. I know there are those old numbers from the Club of Rome that then had to be renewed again, but that's what's about to happen. Oil will be available to us for about 43 years, natural gas 64 years. The coal is a bit longer: 207 years, lignite 198 years and – quite interestingly – uranium 42 years. Therefore, those who now rely on nuclear technology, on nuclear power plants, need to know that this is a technology that is at last, because also enrichable uranium will no longer be available infinitely long. Some 42 years, ladies and gentlemen! EURATOM has been a short topic today. And when we talk about renewable energies, it says again and again: This is so expensive to use these renewable energies for us. There's a lot of funding. In Austria, it is €17 million that we invest. I've got numbers from Germany here. What is the cost of using nuclear power in Germany? You can see very well what subsidies this is linked to: Construction of research reactors: € 20 billion; Decommissioning, replacement of nuclear installations: € 2.5 billion; Atom test reactor demolition Jülich: € 500 million; Operation and decommissioning Morsleben: €1.2 billion; public financing of failed projects: € 9 billion; Castor transports: € 3 billion; Rehabilitation Wisdom: € 6.6 billion; Abreiss – Endlager Reichswald: € 3.7 billion; Loss of tax revenue due to non-taxable provisions: 20 billion €. – These are huge amounts! This cannot be compared with what we invest in renewable energies at all. Germany, however, has set itself up in time with the Renewable Energy Act. It is a pity that, with the last amendment of the Ecostrom Act, we have actually prevented the increased use of renewable energy in Austria. The share of renewable energy in total energy consumption in Austria has fallen continuously since 2002 and is falling every year. We need something completely different: We need more renewable energy to make ourselves independent: regardless of energy supplies from abroad, from supplies of fossil energy sources. What do we need to do? – An actual Renewable Energy Act for Austria without cover, but with investment security for the operators. And what else do we need? – A thermal rehabilitation offensive. This makes it possible for us to reach the most. The old house and old house population in Austria is in need of renovation. If you really want a continuous renovation, that would cost about €80 billion. That's a lot of money. Nevertheless, we need to shift the focus of support in residential construction towards renovation in order to speed up this thermal renovation of the old house and old housing stock. I mentioned earlier the subsidies for nuclear power. But it does not look different for other fossil energy sources. Coal in Germany, coal subsidies from 1980 to 2003: 146 billion €. Every job in this area is subsidized in Germany with an annual subsidy of €80 000; Weight compensation for mining: € 400 million. These are huge costs that we have to do with. Ladies and gentlemen, you also have to say where the journey is, what time targets you set. I listened very well to you when you set your schedule and said when we could achieve what goals and then compare them with what we did and documented in the book. We have undertaken – and we think this is possible – to achieve energy independence in the electricity sector by 2020. In 2030, at least 80 percent of the heat production from renewable ene can be achieved The biggest problem, of course, is transport. It will not be possible to really reach the level we all plan before 2050. These are not only goals, but we have also explained the way there in this book. It is always dangerous for an opposition party to say exactly how to imagine the way. It is also very easy to criticize. Nevertheless, I think it is very important that the precise key data are also given in this important policy area. Of course, today we will agree with the Greens' requests for the implementation of the government objectives. I have a lot to gain from the urgent request. However, there is a paragraph that causes us not to agree to it, and this concerns mobility and transport, because we believe that we should not put on punishment, but on rewards. There are now very, very many people in Austria who are still dependent on their cars, but not because they are so distorted in this product that most of the family income eats away, but because in much of Austria – and I come from such a part of the country – there is hardly any expanded public transport and the inhabitants there are dependent on the car and have to bear high costs for it. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's what nobody is fighting!]] Mrs State Secretary, I may present this book to you and may also tell you that I liked your statements very much. [[the speaker submits a book to Secretary of State Kranzl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18500	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit; Group as a whole: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18521	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Energiewende 2020 or climate protection – without a doubt this is a very important issue that we are discussing here today. I think, however, that the arguments will not be better if they are brought back again and again, and they will not be new if they are dealt with urgently. Energy change, climate change and CO2 emissions are not new issues that concern Austria alone, because greenhouse gases do not stop at the border. We must not pretend that nothing has yet happened. Let us look at this in terms of CO2 efficiency in international comparison. Federal Minister Pröll and colleague Kopf have already mentioned it: Austria ranks fourth behind Switzerland, Sweden and France. It should also be borne in mind that the countries in front of Austria are nuclear nations. In my remarks, I would like to take care of a child of concern on the issue of CO2 emissions, namely road transport. This causes about a quarter of the CO2 emissions; a non-insignificant proportion of this is the fuel tourism sector, especially in freight transport. And this fuel tourism in freight transport accounts for 33 percent, and the greenhouse gases released from it amounted to 32 percent of the Austrian greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector in 2005. Car and truck transport have increased enormously, especially leisure traffic. But mobility is simply a value that people hold high, and it is one of the elements of quality of life. What we want is, climate protection, life- ensure quality and, above all, durability for the people in Austria. The Federal Government has recognised this problem and has also put it into practice. With the increase in mineral oil tax last year, for example, the infrastructure package was or is financed, on the other hand the energy and climate funds are set up and donated with €500 million. This infrastructure programme provides for the expansion of rail, an investment boost for the ÖBB and thus for public transport. The Energy and Climate Funds also support public transport. Similarly, a traffic control instrument was used with the increase of the truck toll. With the amendment to the Ecology Act, which we are still going to adopt today, the next action will be taken with this change in standard consumption taxes. A bonus malus system when buying a car, depending on the CO2 emission, also achieves a high steering effect. This effect should also be used for climate policy objectives. Of course, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, as some of the colleagues from the opposition have suggested, one could have acted even more restrictively in CO2 emissions or could have made the bonus malus system even stronger. It's very similar with the truck toll. Of course, we can discuss the scope of the truck toll, which is what we are talking about, not generating additional and non-controllable increases for households, because it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, and this does not really mean that someone does not really think that these additional costs for transport are paid by the company itself, but that they are 1 : 1 to the households. We do not want this, and we do not want to endanger jobs in the automotive and supplier industries in Austria by restrictive measures. In the meantime, 700 companies across Austria are active in this sector, which accounts for almost €22 billion in production, with approximately 175 000 employees. Taking into account the downstream and forward-looking economic sectors of the automotive industry, such as insurance, trade, car repair, gas stations and so on, it is seen that there are 360 000 employees around the car in Austria. In other words: Every eighth job in Austria, a total of 12 percent of the self-employed, is active in the automotive industry. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what we want is a broad consensus – as my colleague Petra Bayrreids has said – by discussing and developing the key points for sustainable climate protection. There is no doubt that there is much to do. There is the eco electricity law, which needs to be renewed, which should actually be called the Energy Efficiency Act, and as Mrs Kranzl has already mentioned, this is about future technologies; Photovoltaics are only one area. It is also a question of improving public transport, increasing the transport of goods from road to rail; it is a question of improving the public transport of passengers so that workers, pupils and students can be safely, quickly and environmentally targeted. It is also about launching an offensive on the use of environmentally friendly motor vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to do, and for this we have a dedicated government team – and I am convinced that we will achieve the goals set. By the way: I do not think that what is in the government's programme needs to be decided once again by a motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18596	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit; The rest of the speaking time of the Group is 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18618	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I think we should look at where we stand during this debate. Austria has the fourth lowest share of CO2 emissions after three so-called nuclear countries, namely Switzerland, Sweden and France. It is clear that there are countries that are less industrialized and have less share per capita, but I do not think we need to apologize for our economic performance. At the same time, however, this means that in Austria, compared to most other countries, this high level of value added is achieved very, very cleanly – and that is something we, as I mean, can all be proud of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But also in Austria, energy demand is increasing in total, and if we look at the development from 1990 to 2006, we see a massive increase in transport, a percentage decline or a balance in industry and a rather large increase in the household sector. If we know that, then we need to ask ourselves what the right measures are, which is the right way to respond in time, efficiently and with the aim of saving the world climate. On the one hand, it is at first glance that it is very, very difficult for Austria to do more and more with extremely CO2-neutral and highly energy-efficient companies to the already achieved, which is at the absolute top of Austria. The companies would, of course, be ready, but in part they are already leading the world with the latest technologies in the field of energy saving, and there are no other ways for some industries to become even more efficient – except to throttle production and fire people. At the same time, this means that some of the objectives envisaged by the European Commission for Austria would be very difficult or hardly feasible. I am therefore very grateful to the Minister for Economic Affairs for ensuring that, in particular, countries such as Austria, where industrial production is already taking place at an extremely high level of the environment, have the opportunity to maintain their industrial businesses. Austria should not become a de-industrialized zone, so other objectives must be set in terms of climate protection. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] Especially suitable for this, there are once again energy saving measures. We are always talking about dams and heating, but if we see that in the summer, due to air conditioning, we now have main supply bottlenecks in the field of electricity, we know that it is not done with heating alone – and should therefore consider how we are progressing with good example, For example, by switching devices on stand-by by using energy saving lamps, but of course also putting energy saving at the centre of our efforts. The foreign exchange means: saving energy; Moving traffic from road to rail, the European Commission has to say that since the EU has not done its homework yet, and in this context I am going to introduce the Road Costs Directive. If we are to make use of the possibility of improving transport even where the increase is greatest, Europe must also provide us with the instruments, namely a fair road cost directive that we have been working on in Austria for years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the greens say we want to get away from coal, we want to get away from oil, we want to get away from gas, I reply: Yes, then it must also be said to other forms of energy. If I imagine what the Greens in Tyrol are putting in place, for example, in extending hydropower to obstacles and protests, then I must say that you should have a debate on this in your own ranks. It is clear that this must be done in an environmentally sound manner, clearly that this must be done within limits, but I believe that the things that are planned are going to end in exactly these boundaries – and that there is great damage to Austria, Europe and the many poorer countries in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18706	Mrs Kranzl, Secretary of State, spoke from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18727	Mr President. High house! I would just like to make three additions to the Road Costs Directive. Mrs. National Councillor Hakl, I would like to thank you for this point – and would like to say that MinisterFaymann has demonstrated impressively how it is possible to modify this subject accordingly in Brussels. This is not easy, and we acknowledge that the Road Costs Directive, the revision of which must be put on other legs, must above all succeed in calculating external costs, which are currently not charged at all. However, your suggestion, Mrs Hakl, to put more devices on stand-by, I cannot entirely agree because it has been shown that stand-by devices have a great energy loss. As I believe, all manufacturers are invited to develop other products, through the convenience on the one hand – we can also discuss whether everything has to be so comfortable – and on the other hand, energy efficiency is guaranteed. Mr Fuhrmann mentioned that she wished for more research in the field of alternative energy technologies. I should like to point out once again to the IV2S+ programme I have already referred to, that a variety of programme lines includes the development, research of alternative drive systems and fuels, intermodality, interoperability, as well as technologies for changing mobility needs and basic research for innovations in transport. However, I should also like to point out the e2050 programme, a programme which, by the way, is being carried out together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where the intention is to develop resources-saving energy and environmental technologies, how it manages to use this technology transfer much, much more, to force it as an export hit, and, above all, how we manage to reduce energy dependence. There are three topics, three priority topics, namely energy in buildings, energy systems and networks, as well as energy and final consumers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18775	The next speaker is Mr Bauer. 3 minutes of your group's remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18796	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think this debate has shown that we are very united in the objective and that we could actually be more proud of the achieved than we are. I would like to say that very clearly. If we are fourth in many statistics or fourth in renewable energies and then we hear countries like Germany quoted with 6 percent of renewable energy, and that we should take an example, then, I think, is simply not fair to discuss it. I think it is very important that we become aware that the energy transition and also the CO2 problem must be dealt with more quickly. We set very ambitious goals, but they must also be attainable. The fact is that today, for example, we have 35 to 45 percent energy efficiency increases targets. I am one of those who say that 45 percent are also reachable! A goal which is very ambitious, but which we can also achieve. Finally, we need to achieve that mix that is necessary to get more and more of the fossil energy sources away and more and more renewable energies. It should not be forgotten that it is also important to ensure the provision of fossil energy sources to meet our energy needs. Finally, there is the principle of security of supply. The second – equally important – principle is that of supply ethics. This means that all energy has to be available. I believe that people's needs, such as mobility, light and warmth, are those on whose cover all have a right. These are questions that need to be raised and simply taken into account when talking about CO2 problems and energy futures. In this sense, I am very pleased that the many proposals made by the political groups and the individual colleagues are put on the table and assessed fairly. This means that in Austria – at the end of the discussion – we will have the best eco electricity law in Europe, with the best values in the field of renewable energy. Let's set our goals now. I am convinced that we have the necessary technological conditions and also the power to apply and implement these technologies in order to use them, as it is said, as export goods and as a means of securing many jobs. In this sense I am already looking forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18839	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Sonnberger. The remaining speaking time of your group is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18861	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to deal with the issue of housing and climate protection, and I believe that there has been a very positive development in recent years. If we look at the study “Ecologisation of residential development in multi-storey housing” by Klaus Lugger and Wolfgang Amann, we simply see that the last article 15a B-VG agreement has already taken effect. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That she's going exactly... apart!]] If I look at the curves of how they go together in recent years and are on average below the energy number 40, I know that we are going the right way in the right direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When we look at the ratios and ask: What is used in the area of housing development – at least €2.5 billion per year – for the new building sector?, we see: It is spent in about 72 percent, and we have risen from 18 to 22 percent during the renovation, and the rest remains for the promotion of the subject. . But I believe that the current bill is wrong if one believes that the new building can be postponed and the problem solved by it, because if we know that we are building about 43 000 housing units a year and a Wifo study says that we will need more in the next few years in about 10,000 housing units, one can see that there is actually not so much left. I believe that we need to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the new Article 15a agreement, which is now being negotiated by the federal government with the countries in the context of financial compensation, to further improve these objectives, especially in the field of construction regulations, by trying to ensure that the construction regulations are closer to the housing development guidelines in order to reduce this difference. – Of course, there is also pressure from the countries that don’t have so much joy with it, but I believe that we will be working together again on the screw and developing improvements together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] – We are really on a very, very good path. On the conclusion of the following point: By 1985 about 1 million single and two-family houses and apartments were built. There is actually a small funding instrument, but it has happened and happened in recent years at least. – If we look at this target group and know that the energy figures are around 200 and more, and if we see that at least one third to half of these buildings are being renovated in the next five or six years, we see: That would be a huge leap! As improvements will be achieved, this will not go without additional financial resources.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18910	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. The remaining speaking time of your group is also 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e18932	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The energy turnaround is a command of the hour! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should I could tell you that today's urgent request has led to a very strong commitment from the SPÖ side, from the ÖVP side, from the FPÖ side, but I must say that the tension sheet has been put very far: from a few voices that deny climate change, to appeals to the individual, he may act personally. The challenge today is that we also present rigorous policy concepts. Mr Bauer, you have spoken about a “round table of the best ideas”. – Yes, of course this would be one thing you would have to offer better today than tomorrow! They know that the whole industry, which is active in renewable energy, has been in doubt for years, that there is nothing going on in Austria, because it is thought in “smallest-sized projects” that good approaches are being worked on there and there, but that the framework conditions for this area are not there, so that there is really progress here, so that something is finally going on here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One of Mr Hofer's comments, which, in my view, has also been very well received, which is the other cost in this area and which is very close to our request in some respects: They have taken one out, namely the question of mobility and transport. That's what I'm telling you, that's the challenge! The transport sector in particular is the challenge for a real climate policy! If we do not manage to reach a breakthrough even in traffic – a breakthrough towards less CO2 emissions – we will not achieve our ambitious goals. One point is that a comprehensive truck toll is feasible and economically acceptable even today! And as far as alternative technologies are concerned, solar mobility is imaginable by 2050 and scientifically also a possibility that should be more researched. Mrs Kranzl, you have today issued a very ambitious statement, which we have also assessed positively. What you have said, we find ourselves committed, motivated and clear; we support it. However, we would also expect the relevant meeting ministers to show a similar commitment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I cannot save the ÖVP of one: If you read what your friends find out from the Eco-Social Forum – I come to the conclusion, Mr President – that the draft eco-power law is a merciless blow for all the progressive forces of energy and environmental policy in Austria, then you should finally leave this behind! [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] There is a change in course, and we will continue to fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19007	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take the places, because we are now coming to a number of votes. First of all, we are voting on the self-employed amendment 561/A(E) tabled by Dr Van der Bellen, colleagues on energy change 2020 – exit roadmap “Rouss from nuclear power, oil, gas and coal”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen, colleagues, on the conversion from 400 000 households to renewable energy by 2020. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen, colleagues on improving energy intensity by at least 20 percent by 2020. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: It's in the government program!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's why we don't have to decide today!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues on the National Energy Efficiency Programme. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Van der Bellen, colleagues on energy check for all Austrian households by 2010. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on increasing the share of renewable electricity generation to 80 percent by 2010 and 85 percent by 2020. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues, on the doubling of biomass use by 2010. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Van der Bellen, colleagues on the increase in renewable energy to 45 percent by 2020. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[18:12:27]] Short debate on the reply to the question 1792/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19106	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Defence with the order number 1792/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I should now like to ask the honourable Member Dr. Fichtenbauer as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19142	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As if the chance had been directed, it has become apparent that today's National Council debate will then take place on the day of the adoption of the Chad troops which you made yesterday, Minister of State Darabos, so that a certain intensity of attention that would have been devoted to the subject would have been a little bit of today's debate. We have allowed ourselves to question the following facts in the context of a request: Whether and to what extent there is a connection with the foreign policy ambition to gain a seat in the non-existent area of the Security Council through Austria, and the very prompt and rapid approval of the Chad mission, which has been requested by the UN. – You, Mr Minister, have said that there is no such connection. Federal Minister! With leave, I put your honorableness out of dispute in the most comprehensive and urgent way, but I don't think so. I do not think... – Mr Murauer, I already admit that this is perhaps a embarrassing issue for your group and for you, because the Foreign Minister is an EIA foreign minister, and of course she has maneuvered our Minister for Defence into this situation! [[Abg. Murauer: There's nothing to do!]] [[Abg. Murauer: No, it's not embarrassing!]] It is the unbroken and energy-rich concern that we want to shine outside politics, that our glamorous foreign minister finally wants to gain this non-permanent seat in the UN Security Council, and for this purpose, the rapid approval that Austria is participating in this Chad mission was given to the UN headquarters. [[Abg. Neugebauer:... Austria! ... In the interest of the country!]] This can be clearly understood from the media: With the UN requirement that Austria participate in Chad, it has returned from New York to Austria, and Foreign Minister Darabos has made the mistake... [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Minister of Defense!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Minister of War!]] - Excuse me: the Minister of Defence! The Minister of Defense has made the mistake of convincing himself on the spot, as it does in Chad. And of course it is that this humanitarian drama, which has lasted for more than 20 years, must personally touch any person who has normal feelings, and that a normal thinking person of course immediately feels the instinct of helping himself. The art of governance, however, means the consideration of interests and the design of political possibilities by the existing means, and that is the approach of my criticism: There is not the slightest opposition to Austrian participation in foreign missions in a sensible way, and it is right that Austria has been active among changing ministers of all colours since 1960 – except green – but it is a command of state-political benefit not to do with the casting can, but to carry out a power distribution according to economic criteria. For this reason, we have here the beginning of an excessive investment and effort pressure which is not in line with the funds available in Austria. Austria's security court is nothing but the Balkans. We cannot geographically expand our forces to the infinite, and we cannot at all approach the principles or possibilities that a military “half-great power” like France has. In this way we come to the following derivatives: First: I postulate that the estimated cost of € 25 million for Weitem is not enough. The equipment of the Puch G army car, which is taken there, is costing up to €60 000 per piece of waste. The costs for logistics will also break down the framework, and the personnel costs, the logistics, equipment and conversion costs will, of course, far, far exceed these 25 million. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: War is always expensive, ask...! If you're at war, it's always very expensive!]] Secondly, Mr Federal Minister, you have yesterday in the framework of Your adoption ceremony said: Darabos assured the soldiers – it is in the newspaper – that the government is 100 percent behind the mission, and he criticized the debate in Austria that is polemizing on its back. To clarify: The Freedom Party always stood and stands behind the soldiers, 100 percent, and we are also 100 percent behind the soldiers who go to Chad – there is nothing to do with that! – but it must be allowed to debate the sensibleness of this political effort and decision-making. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And there is nowhere to be established their inevitability and it would be an act of political opportunism to agree to such things fully and without any critical debate. We are not polemizing, not even on the back of our soldiers, but we are fully politically debating what is critical of this matter. In addition, I say that we do not have to resort to our own inventions here, because the attentive persecutors of the political scenarios could actually read daily in the newspapers, under which not a successful start – because the EU states as a whole have failed their participation – the company has stood up from the beginning. Even today it says what the Chief Commander of the Mission, the Irish General Nash, has to say: The EU military mission in Chad begins without a sufficient number of transport helicopters and soldiers in the long term. This was given by the EU's commander-in-chief, Ire Patrick Nash, in Brussels on Tuesday. I hope to read additional offers today. A military company of this kind, based on hope, is a drama, particularly with regard to military planning, which, however, is subject to the political oktroi. It is claimed that this would be a humanitarian mission. Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen: A humanitarian mission is the expression of disaster protection, as we have already said, in the face of earthquakes and the like. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, not just!]] But this is not a humanitarian mission, but a defense mission by humanitarian forces. This is the result of the derivative of the order. It's a backup. Security is a military way of action. This is about securing routes of movement and refugee camps. This must be set up in accordance with military principles. – Whoever says the opposite does not know what he is talking about! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] That's a fact. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to depend on the fact that there's a fight there. On the other hand, I agree that this is the case with covert falsifications and that the population is being led astray! Even if you talk so much about the matter, it doesn't become more true! There is no way to pass the truth. Let us speak an honest language in these things! If one moves in and says that the soldiers are available for humanitarian purposes only, this has the negative consequence that the psychological projection keeps the soldiers there from the necessary defence measures in the end. [[Abg. Wheeler: Again!]] – Don't you understand? - Then you can't do anything. You can read it later. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] That's to say about these things. Austria is clearly aware that this mission – I am coming to the conclusion – is a military option that carries a military mission within itself – and is not there for the “stuttering” of those persecuted. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] If you don't understand that, you should read it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19320	From the government bank, Mr. Mag. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19351	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased, Mr Fichtenbauer, that you, also in your capacity as chairman of the Defence Committee, dispute my honoraryness. I am also putting your out of dispute, but I know that at the beginning I would like to say that this is also felt in your speech, with it being a subjective opinion that I am now speaking here – that you might have been able to give other opinions in this direction too. With you, I know that you are not 100% and completely opposed to this commitment, but that was only addressed by the way. [[Call the FPÖ:How do you know?]] – Because in the run-up to Chad, I have all informed and talked to everyone. I do not want to say anything more about these talks, but I tell you that I have also found supporters of this Chad commitment in all parties. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: War Ministers usually don't tell the truth! They are the Minister of War – and nothing else!]] – If you make a lie to me, I have to take note of it. Mr Fichtenbauer, you have referred to my question. To this end, I would like to reaffirm: It has nothing to do with our candidate for the Security Council; I have made this clear to you in my answer to the question. Austria has been actively involved in peace missions since 1960 and has thus also acquired a long-standing reputation as a reliable partner in peace missions. In the knowledge of this reliable reputation, we have decided to support this humanitarian action, based on a UN mandate and for the first time to create a large-scale EUFOR mission outside Europe. It's about purely humanitarian reasons – and not about any strategic games you're putting in here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Bush says that to the Iraq war too!]] I would also like to say briefly, Mr Fichtenbauer: ==References== January 2002 – Yes, you hear correctly, on 17th. In January 2002, the main committee of the National Council – at the time Mr Scheibner was Minister of Defence, including with the votes of the FPÖ and the Greens – decided unanimously to use Afghanistan with a much lower preparation time than – you can assume that it was on 17 November 2002 that the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs would be able to act unanimously. ==References== [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Before!]] This was a commitment which, in my view, was more dangerous than that in Chad; a commitment in which 19 states also participated; a commitment – and this is now quite similar to Chad’s use – during which an action of a great power took place in parallel, namely the Operation Enduring Freedom. The political half-life is always short, you don't always notice that. The US has launched its own action and carried out this mission in parallel to this ISAF mandate, no one then asked the question of partyity or neutrality. At the time, the Social Democrats, as well as all the others here in this House, also agreed. I'll tell you: Given the fact that the use in Chad is less dangerous than in Afghanistan, given that the use in Chad is unanimously decided not by me, but by all 27 EU countries, and is also actively supported by 22 states of the European Union, given the fact that many neutral and alliance-free states were involved, and that this commitment is based on a UN mandate, and that there is a clear humanitarian objective, we will carry it out. We adopted the quota yesterday. I consider the attitude of the opposition to this question – which I say quite openly from the government bank – to be quite questionable, because the humanitarian necessity and reason urge us to share this commitment. It is also about the reputation of the Republic of Austria, because we have committed ourselves in the European context to supporting such actions. Here in the House, I would like to take the opportunity to take advantage of the soldiers who have signed up for this Chad mission – it was far more than the 160 that we have now adopted, it was to the 700; then we had to set up a lock, because much more had been reported – to express my personal thanks, my respect and my recognition. And that's what everyone in this house should do. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Scheibner.]] I also say quite openly: This is a question that we in Austria should also discuss openly: Do we really want a second Rwanda in Africa? Do we want a second Darfur in the east of Chad? - I don't think so. This cannot be in the sense of the Greens, the BZÖ and also not in the sense of the FPÖ. It is simply important that we show the flag, the European flag and also fight crises on the ground, and not allow these crises – and this is also quite in their own interests and, I believe, also to cross over to Europe the world picture of BZÖ and FPÖ. That's what I'm talking about. Security policy is also an important contribution for Austria. That is why I am also in Chad for this use. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: What are you doing in Darfur?]] As you have just mentioned this, Mrs Lunacek: You can't mix that. It is not about interfering in a conflict, for example in a border conflict, but about protecting refugee camps. “Protection of refugee camps” is abstractly formulated. In concrete terms, that means: protection of traumatised women after rape; Protection against rape by women living in these refugee camps and protecting them from being dragged away as child soldiers. I think that alone would justify our commitment to Chad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I say quite frankly to you: This alliance, which I have now seen in advance in another matter, between FPÖ and Greens is already very remarkable, because it is the same language that is spoken there. Mr Pilz, who does not make the effort to attend this discussion, says that this is a war effort. – This is the same language that Mr Strache speaks. Mr Pilz knows exactly that this is not a war effort. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] We are working there within the framework of an EUFOR mission, we will be strictly over-participative, neutral – and will not be involved in military conflicts. That's why I'm telling you quite openly: I'm disappointed with you! The humanitarian mandate we are taking there has always been your argument, the argument of the Greens that you took in the summer of the previous year, when you, Mrs Lunacek, have yet vehemently advocated that Austrian soldiers go to Darfur. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I look at the neutrality!]] I'm telling you, Darfur's the name of 300,000 dead. And 300,000 dead mean a really bloody civil war. I wouldn't have sent our soldiers there in this situation. The Chad mission, however, means humanitarian aid to women and children, protection of refugee camps, and thus a tailor-made action to be taken by Austrian soldiers as part of our international peace efforts. And I'm proud of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only say that our soldiers are on the right side. They prevent a humanitarian disaster there or the spread of this catastrophe and save human lives. We were actually in the Austrian Parliament always of one opinion when it came to these peace efforts – for example the Golan, since 1973/74 we have been there, at the beginning it was not a walk, but a very dangerous mission, in which there was even injury and death to complain. We were in Cyprus: not a simple mission either. We were in Kosovo: not a safe mission. We were in Bosnia: not a safe mission. And we were in Afghanistan – and there everyone agreed: the Greens, the FPÖ; the current BZÖ delegates also heard the FPÖ at the time. I'll be right there. I believe that we have made a good decision that we still have a lot of information work to do if we want to protect 250 000 refugees from civil war, 170 000 internally displaced people in Chad and improve the living conditions of refugees. We are also following a call for help from the aid organizations, not only in Chad, but above all in the UN. The EUFOR troupe will also show that it can provide the services it requires. I stand personally as a Minister of Defense, I have said that often enough, and you can count on it, and this is what the entire Federal Government, which is 100 percent behind this commitment. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19519	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next item is the speech by Mr Prehauser. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19544	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I was already very curious about how Mr Fichtenbauer will explain the position of the FPÖ here today, especially since I have so far assumed that the FPÖ is behind the German army – the colleague has also said that the FPÖ is with all power behind the German army – as he will explain here to the German army, not equipped to be sufficiently trained. I also do not know what a Federal Minister other than Service Scheibner will think in this matter; I am a bit unscrupulous there. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why, I always say that!]] A Federal Minister responsible for the performance, for the training of the Federal Army, has to say today that the Federal Army is not prepared for these efforts. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have a 1960 telescopic protocol here. You know, in 1960, the first foreign employment in the Congo, which started in a way that is unthinkable today. [[Call the ÖVP:Golan!]] At the time of arrival, our soldiers were disarmed, their belongings disposed and put under quarantine. – Imagine what mediaecho would bring if this happened today! Today, however, we know that this commitment is one of the greatest successes of the federal army in history and the trigger was that the UN has returned to Austria in the event of crisis, asked us to send forces, for example, to Cyprus or to the Golan. I believe that the soldiers – in 1955 the German army was founded – were not yet able to resort to the training that our tried-and-tested soldiers display today. It can already be said that the last 20, 30 years have been a success story of the federal army. Mr Darabos, you really have the government at your side when it comes to fulfilling this mission. I respect the fact that you are not aware of the contradictions of discussions and the abuses also in the media and that you have attached small amounts here, but show the flag on this humanitarian order and do what you expect to do: The strong is supposed to help the weak if it is necessary! We stand by you, we will support you in this mission. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was important, of course, after the Foreign Minister's request to the main committee to send soldiers there, to find out what a task this is really about. And there is no way to say that it is a mistake to visit a territory which is then to be secured, even to the danger, Mr Fichtenbauer, that human rights are, of course, also well suited in politics. You don't need to be ashamed of that either. I admit, the decision can be a little influenced. But if you can help 500 000 people who have to live there in refugee camps under the most difficult conditions, then of course you have to do so in the form, and there is also a bit of rain, because then you do not shoot out of the target. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1960 – because it is said Austria was not equipped, the soldiers did not have the armor, nor the equipment – the soldiers were taken to the South Railway Station, Rome Express, to Pisa and from there to Léopoldville in the Congo. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There were no soldiers there!]] If one let this happen, Mr Graf, so Revue, one cannot imagine that Austria was able to carry out such a great mission there. And today, with the technical means we have, I am not concerned that this task will not be done to satisfaction. But, above all, the prime thing for us is that these people are really being helped. Mrs Lunacek, I do not now have the impression that we should have a discussion with the Greens for or against the Federal Army. I'm not saying now that you wanted to go to Darfur in the summer to help the people there. The approach to helping people is also right. Only there, of course, would the danger have been much greater, and that could not be done by us in the form at that time. We will now see how things, the situation in Chad will develop. We will also ensure that relevant information is provided to Parliament. I assume, ladies and gentlemen, that when the first activities have been set up, when the first positive reports come, Parliament will also find a common line for later missions. And especially in security matters, when it comes, we should pull on a line. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the budget?]] If a Parliament, if a government is acting together against those who are in danger of human beings, it can also succeed. But if we break each other, this will lead to a failure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19636	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. Maximum speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19658	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Mr Fichtenbauer, Austria certainly does not need to link a seat in the Security Council with a commitment in Chad. You know that as well as I do. We can refer to a number of humanitarian missions, peace missions that can be seen for our country. We Austrians have always been at the forefront, as measured by other countries and their commitment. I do not need to remind you that, under this tradition, we are now available to 60,000 foreign soldiers and, of course, to the civilian population, within the framework of the CIMIC, in Kosovo, in missions that have kept the parties to each other. They now doubt it and believe that this would not be a humanitarian action, because the task is to protect civilian people, to stop the wildly diverting equestrian militias, of course also with the weapon. It makes sense and purpose to protect the civilian population, to safeguard the children, the women who have gathered there and are not few, and to ensure their survival. Today’s “New Volksblatt” has brought it to the fore: These people need our help, the help of Europe, that we also care about the continent of Africa within the framework of our European opportunities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] – Be careful so that you can also understand, young man, what it means to take on a common European responsibility for this world, for the poorest! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Where are we going next time? – Mr Commissioner, that is what you have to say.]] If you think otherwise, you can come and explain this to the House. I mean, we're called. If today come up with allegations and Mr. Dr. Pilz says – in order to take this accusation immediately – that the Austrian quota would have a sloppy or negligent preparation: Mrs. Lunacek, you'll correct him! Or Mag. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Magistra!]] Lunacek, for me, you're a doctor, because if I listen to you, I always have the impression that you have the doctorate because it sounds like it. You will explain to Mr Pilz that this is not true. They would have sent our soldiers to Darfur in the summer, where the situation is even more difficult. And these soldiers would now be poorly prepared or negligently prepared? – That is to be rejected, ladies and gentlemen! Those who are interested in it see with what commitment, with what logistical preparations, with which situation assessment our soldiers are prepared, on all the events that can be estimated from a distance. A pre-quota will now examine even more precisely. Everything is done to ensure as much security as possible for our soldiers. And if it is meant that the mission in Chad is dangerous: Of course, because if it were quiet there, if there were no conflicts, our military would not be needed there. I hope we agree on this. In this regard, I would like to join Mr Prehauser in saying: It should be our common task, as in all the other committed European states, to support and support our commitment to this mission. It is, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, about the population to protect the refugees who are 500 000... – Mrs Lunacek, I am surprised that you can laugh there. But just laugh. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: That has other reasons! My laugh has nothing to do with it!]] It surprises me, because on the other hand, you think that other things are going to have to be done dramatically out here. And if someone from a government party mentions this the same thing, you start laughing. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: has nothing to do with you!]] In conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to support this commitment, even in terms of our security.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19745	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. The maximum speaking time of 5 minutes is also valid for you. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19767	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speaker: My laughter had nothing to do with you to clarify this, and also nothing about this subject. It's related to something else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] I've had yesterday. An evening opportunity to discuss this issue with the Minister. Now again. In order to clarify: The position of the Freedom Party, which says that they do not want any use of this kind in parts of the world outside of Europe, is not ours! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We never said that!]] In principle, we are always in favour of humanitarian operations if they are well prepared if they are not planned negligently if there is a political framework that enables our consent to good conscience. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There you have the same opinion as we do! Why do you say...?]] That is not the case with this commitment, and that is why we voted against it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Darabos, briefly to your question, about which I have already wondered a little. You have written to 11 questions 12 or perhaps 13 lines, all in one, have not addressed the details of this request at all, which I also see as very problematic in the parliamentary sense, in the sense of our right, because we should actually get answers to our questions and not be swept away in the type of: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's it!]] I'm not telling you that! – Mr Minister, this is not a way of dealing with the National Council! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] On the content: Of course, we also hope that the Austrian soldiers will return from this mission well, healed and well-preserved and that they will actually be able to protect refugees. The problem, however, is that the political framework is wrong. The neutrality of this European force is not given, because there is a French command in Chad. And as you all know, France is strongly involved there. The French Government has been supporting the dictator in this country for years! That is to say, this force is not impartial and not impartial to the population, to other parts of this country, to the opposition. That's a difference to what you mentioned, like Afghanistan. At that time, it was clear that the people – not the Taliban, but everyone else – wanted this commitment, so we agreed at the time. So there's a big difference. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] The impartiality, the neutrality of this force is not given. That's the danger. That's why we say that's a questionable action. As far as Darfur is concerned: There lies the cause of the whole evil. Where is there a political initiative on the part of this Federal Government, including you, Minister Darabos, and the Foreign Minister, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the European Union, to clarify that the conflict in Darfur should be resolved, that the regime in Khartoum should be heard in such a way that they can no longer send the Janjaweed militias there that the arms supplies to these countries will be stopped? Where are the political initiatives in this regard? They belong so that this conflict is curtailed at the root and is not – well meant, but unfortunately made bad – deceived to help the civilian population, the population in the camps. [[Abg. Scheibner: How would you do that? A proposal!]] That's why we are. We want this cause to be put at the root. [[Abg. Scheibner: But these political measures, what is that supposed to be? What could that be?]] These policies do not take place! In the committees, we have repeatedly asked what is happening on the part of the Federal Government. - Nothing in this sense! That is why, unfortunately, this mission is questionable for us, because the political standstill takes place in Darfur, and there it belongs. Another thing: the equipment of the Federal Government. Actually, helicopters would be used there, desert helicopters would be used to see out of the air where rebel groups are on their way to refugee camps, and to stop them in time. [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: Already with a few people inside! I can't do this without people!]] The EU has taken months to set up some of these helicopters. And what has Austria done in recent years, including Minister Darabos and this Federal Government? - Eurofighter gets it! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Helicopter too!]] They are not useful in Austria and not in Chad at all! It would have been necessary to obtain a wasteful device after the 2004 Federal Force Reform Commission – then already! – and not Eurofighter. Mr. Minister, you know that very well. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Because in Austria there is a loud desert!]] There's no such thing as this one. The Austrian soldiers drive there without having these helicopters at their disposal without having this device at their disposal. I also think that this is negligent in the sense of a meaningful commitment, which is actually there to protect the population. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to have an answer from you: Our research has shown that it is obviously planned to share this commitment because it is a humanitarian mission to count as money for development cooperation. This may be legal, but that's why it's far from right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19935	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e19956	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals have asked for this question today because we believe, Federal Minister, that you have not answered this question correctly. I should therefore like to make the following request: Request by Dr. Bösch, on the non-knowledge of the written reply to the question 1792/AB The National Council wants to decide: The answer to the question 1792/AB by the Federal Minister for Defence Mag. Norbert Daraboszu to the written question in 1973/J by Dr Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Defence concerning Chad and Security Council sitting is not taken note of. Mr Federal Minister, we wanted to know from this question whether there is a connection between the pursuit of the Republic of Austria and a non-standing seat in the Security Council, and that commitment in Chad, and you have rejected it. They said there was not the slightest link between the decision to participate and the mandate in the Security Council. Your Major General, your new Director of Security Policy, Major General Mag. Johann Pucher, says something else. In an interview with the magazine “Der Soldier”, he says: “Conclusion is that, in the sense of European solidarity and our UN efforts to exclude a non-permanent seat in the UN Security Council 2009, Austria “is involved in neither of the two operations” – either in the Sudan or in the Chad operation. Mr Federal Minister, your Major General Johann Pucher, in my opinion, says the truth, and that is why you would have been able to communicate this position of the Federal Government outside. You can say that the Federal Government wants this non-existent seat in the UN Security Council and has therefore made a special effort at UN level. But you should not deny this, Mr Federal Minister, if this is a political fact, which is also publicly clear and is essentially admitted by your chief officials. We liberals are not against international missions by the Austrian Federal Army. – On the contrary: If there is a good reason for this, we stand behind it. You mentioned historical examples, Minister of State. In this case, we have also clearly stated that this is a particular situation assessment, that the forces of the Austrian federal army are now heavily dislodged in the Balkans, and that we have a long-term task there to deal with with with all the forces that are available. This is no longer guaranteed if you play out the forces of the Austrian federal army, which are becoming ever more modest. You have always said that you see only the humanitarian approach of this mission in the foreground. Mr Federal Minister, I recognise that you, as a politician, are particularly prominent in this aspect, but that is not the exclusive aspect and not the sole motive for performing this operation in Chad; there are also several others. I have already mentioned one, namely the desire of the Federal Government for this non-existent seat in the UN Security Council. However, there are also economic interests, which are essentially already available to you by the press in their comments. This is what is in the “Kurier” today: "The EU's use of troops in Chad, in which Austria participates with a strong quota, is at first sight a humanitarian, unprofitable commitment. At second glance, it is a very dangerous military action to save European economic interests in Africa." Mr Federal Minister, there is nothing against it, either, if the European Union represents economic interests in Africa, only if you give it to the public. You should not wander around these motives that have moved you to stand up for this commitment, but you should say openly, honestly and clearly why you support this commitment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals will be behind the soldiers involved in this mission. This is a matter of course. We know they'll do their best there. However, Mr Federal Minister, you should not have kept this from being a more responsible assessment of the situation, especially the military and the general political situation, and should not have done so.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20059	Mr Bösch's request, which has just been tabled, for the failure to hear the question, is a matter for negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. Your speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20083	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! I can say in advance for the BZÖ that we will not agree to the request for non-knowledge, because one may very well be able to keep the Minister of Defence in this response that it is wrong, but that the questions have not been answered correctly, although almost weekly in broadcasts exactly the same answers to these questions are given, it may not be possible. – Therefore, it is not formally possible to support non-knowledge. However, before dealing with the subject even more precisely, I would like to comment on a number of speeches. Federal Minister Darabos, you made the comparison to the use in Afghanistan earlier. I would like to point out quite clearly that the use in Afghanistan was perfectly organized by NATO and that at the time the Federal Ministry of State Defense also received additional resources to carry out this mission in Afghanistan. This is one of the main criticisms that the BZÖ brings in for this commitment in Chad, that in the special case of Chad the Federal Ministry of State Defense has tried to challenge the costs from its own budget and – these are information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – in spite of demand from the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs, has not been able to bear the costs for the most part by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is simply not sustainable and cannot be supported by us in the current budgetary situation in the area of defence. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On behalf of Mr Prehauser, who has put into the room that the BZÖ should not be used for foreign operations, it should also be noted that: As far as this discussion on Chad's use is concerned, the BZÖ has made clear from the outset that we have always and now, in principle, always for foreign operations, but in the specific case – and there we are again in the preparatory work, in the financing of this Chad mission – cannot agree to this mission. That's where I'm at the next point: They will all remember the debate on Chad's use in the main committee. At the time, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel used the words that he was for the Austrian federal army, therefore he was for this Chad use. At the time I stopped him from saying that the BZÖ was for the Austrian federal army, so we were against this Chad action. I say it again: It cannot be said that the Austrian Federal Army is budgeting €25 million for the first half of the year – in the background, everyone knows that it will cost up to €100 million in advance, and will be borne by the Ministry of Defence by €20 million, out of the current budget in which this was not planned. – Since Federal Minister Darabos will have to agree, they were also your statements. That means you have to subtract this money somewhere. We currently have a number of foreign missions in which the Austrian federal army is very much involved – whether it is in Kosovo this year or is involved in Golan and Cyprus everywhere – and our troops, of course, also need a supply there, and not only there, but also in Austria, a certain standard is to guarantee the Austrian army in the supply of materials and in the other delivery of our troops. That is, the deduction of this funding for Chad's mission is simply a brutal problem for the German army in Austria. To my colleague, Mr Lunacek, who at the beginning of the discussion said that we should have bought waste material instead of the Eurofighter, I must say: You were lucky that your colleague, Pilz, was not present, because I think even Dr. Pilz would have taken the Eurofighters by hand in this case if he had had the choice. What does Austria do with desert equipment in 2002? So that was really a statement that you didn't just reveal as an expert in this field. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now a crucial criticism of the BZÖ in this area – and we have not focused the criticism on you alone, Mr. Federal Minister, but very much on the EU: The European Union has really slammed in the organisation of this commitment. It has not been able to obtain any material for months to ensure local supply. Now one has managed to bring down at least the troops in a “Horuck action”. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Irish general, who will have the command, has now stated in several statements that it is now possible to bring the troops into Chad and to ensure the first time the supply, but on the spot it is not possible to ensure the further supply of our troops. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] In other words, there are serious shortcomings in the organization and also in the execution of this mission. For the answer to the question itself: As has been said, we will not agree to a lack of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20197	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We therefore come to the vote on the request by Mr Bösch, ladies and gentlemen, not to take note of the reply to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of their lack of knowledge to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[19:01:22]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20231	I will resume the negotiations on points 3 and 4 of the agenda. The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20255	Ladies and gentlemen! If I am allowed to join seamlessly in the discussion that was interrupted four hours ago, I am quite right for Mr Rossmann. It may be that in 2002 you already made the proposal to ecologize the NoVa and that it has taken a total of just over five years. However, it took only one year under the new Federal Government for this ecologicalisation to take place. In this respect, this criticism is not directed against the existing government but against a previous government. It is also significant that Mr Westenthaler is not present. Nor am I surprised that he then has no idea of social policy legislation in Austria, because he is not present. What we decide today is not what the previous government, in which the BZÖ was involved, did, because all those who make so little money that they don't pay taxes still get a negative equivalent. – That means more money and a suspension. This will be extended again in two ways: First, the negative tax effect is increased from 10 percent to 15 percent, and the lid is increased from 200 € to 240 €. This is the policy that is, of course, strange to the BZÖ, because it has completely neglected the people who have a low income in the past. - The BZÖ doesn't get it. No wonder, if the clubman isn't there, he won't get it either, but maybe the rest of the BZÖ can tell him that accordingly. [[Abg. Dolinschek: The pension increase...!]] Why is this temporary? Mr Rossmann said that it would be more reasonable to look more closely at the penalty payments, with regard to their environmental impact, their distribution effect. – I think that the impact on spatial planning is less than what is estimated. But it is also worth noting: This measure is limited to 2009, because we have 1. January 2010 wants to have a tax reform and to look at exactly how we can make it even more efficient, socially better and more effective – in the positive sense, not in a sense that we may know from the past discussions. [[Abg. Dolinschek: But not like the pension reform!]] – Yes, I know if you hear perfectly well, then you always think of something negative. If I say social security, I mean that positively and not as you did at your time. [[Abg. Dolinschek: There you have completely skinned!]] That is also the reason why there is a time limit, and I do not see this relocation that you see – the “Cerceeling premium” keyword. I believe that the problems in spatial planning are not justified in the pendulum rate, but much more so in questions of competence between the local authorities. On whether the whole has a steering effect, which was also mentioned in the debate: The NoVa will have no steering effect, the most-preisung will have no steering effect. . That is precisely why these two measures include the regulation that additional revenue may need to be used for climate action, so that, if this indirect steering effect is not present, at least directly more money is available for climate policy. In reality, this law also ensures a steering effect, i.e. if there is more revenue, it immediately flows into climate protection. Mr Rossmann! I think that this 18-month transitional period for reducing 180 grams to 160 grams as a kneefall in front of the automotive industry is an exaggeration. You may be experts in other areas, but obviously not in automotive construction. 18 months is not a long time for the automotive industry for conversions to motor technology et cetera, but this is a damn short time. That's not like paper flyers or Lego houses, but it's a bit more expensive, with a variety of lead times. There are 18 months for a transitional phase in reality very short and by no means a kneefall. Now on the question raised in the field of climate protection and industry: I would just like to say the following: It is essential that we in the new climate policy have the negative effect that industry – CO2-intensive industry, especially steel industry – emigrates from the European economic area, continues to produce for the European market, but at worse environmental conditions, because there is the burden and not in the other countries. - It has to stop. It must be added that within the European Union there is a fairness between the individual steelworks and not one country treats the industry better and the other worse. Every steelworks in Europe must buy or receive CO2 certificates on the same conditions. - I'm gonna have to buy. We then have to ensure that there is competitiveness against the migration trend over Border Tax Adjustments, so that those who produce for the European market outside the European Union have to pay corresponding duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20333	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20355	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! A sentence on the adventurous speech of Mr Krainer, who obviously has Hellenic skills. [[Call the SPÖ: It was good!]] – I did not expect you to find the speech of Mr. Krainer bad for God’s sake! However, he is not right if he takes our decision as to how we stand at these points. Without ever hearing a speaker from us, he said: not like the BZÖ. We stand on the penalty and on this scheme because, unlike SPÖ, we have different principles. If people get something when their suffering is eased – and especially the suffering of the comrades, because they are under high loads – then we will be the last to put something in the way of it, and of course be for it, ladies and gentlemen! That's quite clear, even if it's only a little bit of what they're getting. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If the cover for the negative tax is from €200 to €240 for the claimants – these are at least 50,000 people in Austria! – is raised, then this is a good thing, and we will also stand for it. We are also a member of the Eco electricity Act. Although, of course, we have different ideas than the Federal Government, we will nevertheless vote in favour because we see that 80 percent of all biogas plants in Austria are at risk because simply raw materials prices have exploded and the feed-in tariffs are far too low to operate these plants economically. The example of Italy or Germany shows that there is much more restrictive funding. Thus, the overall benefit balance of the biogas plants in Austria is good. The cost of green electricity is € 198 million, and the economic benefit of the economy is € 573 million, so you have to consider this path well if you keep in mind the economic plans and objectives of Austria. But we also say that it would be even more effective and would be a greater and higher motivation, one would do indexation of the eco-electric tariff and take into account the development of raw materials costs. The second thing we have already said in the Committee was that there is a price guarantee for those projects that are already struggling with high costs from home. On the other hand, one cannot demand a guarantee of raw materials and then say that the financing period is not guaranteed by the admissibility of financing. But now I come to the standard excise duty law, which we will not agree with, because we believe that the drivers in our country are already too heavy. In total, they contribute €11 billion to the budget. Just to remember: The total budget is €62 billion, i.e. a significant share. Therefore, we will not give our approval to this bill, because it is not climate-friendly from our point of view, and it has already been said today that significant sections of the population will be very affected. How a family party can account for this, I do not know when one knows that especially family vehicles will be extremely affected. I do not know what an entrepreneurship party can say about this either, because small entrepreneurs will also be affected in the first place. But please. We make our own request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20424	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20498	Mr Bartenstein spoke next time. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20519	Madam President. Estimated State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the big novelle of the Ecostrom Act, which I hope will be here in the House before the summer. The review is complete. It is about doubling the CO2 savings target from currently 3 million tonnes of CO2 to 6 million tonnes, increasing the green electricity share from 8 per cent to then 15 per cent. So it's a really big novel with structural changes as well. We are in good conversation and hope as a coalition partner to be able to advance the project soon. This is a small novel, but one that is very important for the recipients. It is about 270 biogas producers, about 45 electricity generators, who use liquid biomass as raw materials, and who, as Mr Bucher has already said, need help. Why? – Raw material prices have more than doubled, and after these increased commodity prices cannot be passed on in the feed-in tariffs, because they are fixed, help is necessary. – by the way, honourable Member Bucher: 12 years, probably 15 years in the future. Of course, there are guaranteed feed-in rates and guaranteed feed-in. Nevertheless, these plants no longer count, so they should and should be helped. I thank the coalition partner for the quick and good understanding of the matter. It's not a little money. The aim is to use approximately 500 million kilowatt hours with about 4 cents per kilowatt hour in the arms, which is 20 million €. This does not cover the total price increases, but only about 75 percent. The e-control expert Schönbauer assumes that the actual price increase would amount to about 5.5 cents. On the edge, we also allow a small but important number of photovoltaic generators to be able to feed now at higher rates. This was no longer possible because of the full limits already available due to the existing legislation. So there is also help in this case, where plants are already built and eco electricity is produced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20549	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll, who spoke with 4 minutes' speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20573	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that with the present ecologisation law, we are taking a really important step towards the great challenge, which is climate protection. It is an important step, but I say quite openly, it is also a very small step. What do I mean by that? I mean, just to compare numbers, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can leave the church in the village: What has saved the entire European Union from CO2 emissions in the ten years from 1990 to 2000, has caused China eight times as much CO2 during the same period, ladies and gentlemen! I think the relationships must never be forgotten. Even if we are required to do something for climate protection, we must not forget the globality of the challenge. And let me also say the following, ladies and gentlemen: We are at risk of climate change in two directions. First: We are at risk of selling the industry from Austria. Especially in the industrial sector – I quote about gene. You. Eder von der Voest – with 440 kilograms of CO2 emissions per tonne of steel around the world, not a steel plant that produces environmentally friendly steel! And we are in danger of, on the one hand, selling industry and, on the other, losing jobs in countries where the environment is much more damaged. Or let's take the example of cement: In the European Union 330 kg CO2 emissions per tonne, in Asia twice as much! That means we have a lot of release position here: We are losing jobs and damaging the environment if we are working too much towards the removal of industry. The second is the great danger of a wave of stress, so we burden our consumers and businesses with something that is happening under the pretext of environmental protection and climate protection. I believe that the key to ecologisation can only be in the field of technology and innovation, and therefore it is very wise that we decide here, for example, in the field of NoVA, a bonus malus system, which will ultimately also be an incentive for the car-producing industry to produce less pollutant cars, because they want to sell and sell their cars, and therefore it is an incentive for more innovation in the automotive industry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pirklhuber, we also have the innovative approach to energy saving lamps. You've always known that; I know that. It's bright insanity when we have electric lamps today, where 95 percent heat is produced and 5 percent light! We have enormous potentials in the field of innovation, research, development and technology. Or, for example, I take the whole question of thermal insulation and new technologies in boilers. Here we have a number of possibilities, where we do not only sell industry, but actually have a growth sector here, if we push for this research funding in the field of climate protection and environmental protection accordingly. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the advanced period of time, I would like to make a very brief request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20635	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20703	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20724	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! - Sorry, vice versa, of course! – Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I am totally in your ears, because I believe that the industry has done its part to a large percentage, also towards Kyoto target. [[Call the ÖVP: It hurts!]] Why don't you strengthen me in the basic issue that we are finally drawing up here in the transport sector, reducing or even eliminating tank tourism, and setting up, so to speak, shift systems in the transport sector with budget resources, so that we can relieve the industry by doing so? I personally do not want to be responsible for any unemployed persons, who are therefore unemployed in the industrial sector, because people are driving by car for fun, driving with expensive cars, taking our seats in the cities with SUV vehicles and ruining the environment and causing noise! We really need to work together, and here I see in your NoVA approach – where you say that is the father of innovation bad – zero innovation appeal. Mr Colleague of FPÖ, I can list five cars, as family cars already in use, to buy anywhere below 160 grams of CO2 per kilometer. You have set this threshold in favour of the car lobby, the car dealer so high! We've got to go down there! Our demand is 140, 120 grams, and then gradually rising. Your threshold is a mockery in terms of climate protection! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's not an essential step at all, that's Husch-Fuch and something like a symbolic act, but nothing with teeth, nothing with bites. So our second requirement is that we should definitely introduce a progressive tax rate. We also want to increase the basic rate to 2.5 and not only 2 percent. We want the lid gone. We want to get funding for climate change measures out of the NOVA, because we simply want to put a stronger burden there. The people are supposed to afford a car from me, a 3-liter car or a 4-liter car that has a CO2 emissions below 120 grams. No problem. They're supposed to use it to make sense. Only: The petrol buyers, the instincts, the noises belong to massively burdened, and for that the nova is there that you do not benefit. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr President, I would like to say that I have another offer of cooperation, including with regard to industry, with regard to economic transport. Today we also decide, with our agreement, to improve the rate of penalty, in particular with a view to the fact that the socially poor are now receiving higher compensation and that the amount of negative redundancies is also getting better, because we are always doing this as an actual green concern – always! – have formulated. But we want a shift from motorized individual traffic to transport communities or, even better, to public transport, also in the sense of more road space for the necessary economic transport. I've seen a show recently: There, commuters who used to drive individually by car have set up a driving group, and now they pay to celebrate, despite rising fuel prices, a maximum of a quarter of what they have paid before just because they have formed driving communities. There is still a huge potential, and therefore our request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a pendler package that you should agree with today, especially for the people in Lower Austria on 9 October. Go to the urn on March. We will be very happy to see how you are dealing with this package today, because we want climate protection policy to become really visible in this house and not slimmer around the corner with the tarn cap. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20820	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20912	The next item is the speech by Mr Bauer, who has two minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20933	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is easy to see that we want to solve the tasks step by step, and this is a task that we also have to solve, because if businesses are in difficulty for raw materials reasons, we have to provide assistance here, and this is implemented by this law. Of course, this does not mean that there are no documents to be made available, such as the raw material balance, for example, the whole question of electricity. I believe that the word “eco electricity law” is in some way misleading, because electricity is not the most efficient way of using eco-energy. Therefore, we prefer to talk about “ecoenergy. ” But there are other reasons why you will stick to this term. But we are helping these companies, and at the same time also for those affected by fuel price increases with the lowest income by increasing advertising costs or increasing to 240 €, which brings balance to those companies that need urgent support. We will then draw important conclusions from these documents within the framework of the major eco electricity legislation. I am therefore very grateful for the fact that during this short period of time it was possible for all parties involved to be able to make available to the commuters the amount that will lead to a certain compensation for more and more pressured commuters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20966	The next speaker is Mr Weinzinger, who has two minutes' speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e20987	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It's not true that any drivers are busting through the area for pleasure and pleasure in driving and speed. You all know, and we've been talking about it for a long time now, that there are many people who need the vehicle to go to work, that there are many people who have to go there because of the devastation of our villages and because of the fact that there are only more wholesale houses, just shopping palaces somewhere in the central area, to buy. And it's not just with any small car. Therefore, under the CO2 dogma of course, we immediately found the first victims, and there are the first drivers who “dran” the drivers. We have standard consumption tax, mineral oil tax, car oil tax, and on these taxes we still have the turnover tax. But not enough with it: We also demand the NOVA for our military vehicles, and that is particularly funny. We give only 0.66 percent of GDP to the military for the defence of the state, and then we take something away from them! If they want to buy motor vehicles, they also have to pay the NoVA. Maybe it's been overlooked, but probably not. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask that this request be included in the negotiations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21083	The amendment is properly submitted, sufficiently supported, and is therefore also part of the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21183	Mr Matznetter was next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21204	Madam President. Mrs Marek! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced time and the many items on the agenda, soon: Mr Weinzinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment concerns the standard excise duty law. But briefly to the content: Nor does the federal army do bad to ensure that the CO2 emissions are reduced when purchasing cars. In this sense, I am convinced that the Minister of Defense will make the right choices in the selection and that there is no need for exemption for vehicles that are particularly consumeable. A few things to clarify, because Mrs. Dr. Moser – in that case rightly – said to the other opposition group that there are five family vehicles. This is in concrete terms the Grand C4 Picasso 1.6 HDi, the Opel Zafira 1.9 CDTI and the VW Touran 1.9 TD, which are below 160 grams, Mrs. Colleague. However, it would not be five family vehicles if we did not keep the limit temporarily to 180 grams. The Ford Galaxy 2.0 TD and the VW Sharan 1.9 TD fall into it. So there are really family vehicles from every car company. below the border. Yes, we need these 180 grams for a year and a half, so that the industry can produce vehicles with 160 grams without malus also for families. I come to the second and short part, where there would be a few more material points to be made. Point one: It is not true that only a very small part of the vehicles are bonusable. We assume the current acceptance of the behaviour of today's new car buyers and the current offer and expect 20 to 25 percent bonus vehicles. We expect 20 percent of Malus vehicles to enter into force from 1. ==References====External links== January 2010. We therefore see a balanced system, a proper measure to achieve this change in behaviour among consumers. I think that this measure is very correct. I would like to point out briefly in the second part that the increase in the rate of return in the negative sector is particularly helpful to those who are particularly affected by their low income but the need to drive to the workplace. I can only inform you, Mrs. Moser, in this regard: We have already introduced the consideration of public transport fortunately in our tax system under Minister of Finance Lacina. The so-called small pendulum fee is the pendulum fee, where the person concerned has to use the public transport. “Small” and “large” don’t say anything about the distance, which is up to 60 kilometers. The so-called large flat rate, which is connected to the car, only gets someone for whom, unfortunately, there is no public transport or for whom it is unreasonable because he has to buy long distances with public transport. Speaking quite openly: If a mother or father has to settle with caregivers and then is at work for five hours to eight hours, it is clear that the legislator has given these people the big penalty. We have ecologisation, we are expanding the railway lines, we are investing €6 billion in this area over the next three years. We are increasing contributions to local transport – the whole part of last year's most increase is going to increase public transport. We have agreed with the federal states that the additional funds of the MEST will be invested in this area. The Federal Government, as well as the federal states, are doing something about this. We expand the railway, we expand local transport, we do something for ecologicalization. This is an essential step that we are taking here today. The last point: the question of spraying the mineral oil tax for the house fire on heating oil. Of course, it would be best for us to see a stronger change to renewable energy. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must always bear in mind that we have 900 000 households in the country that have to heat their homes with heating oil today, tomorrow and the day after. These are people who have had to carry out the increase in heating costs, who have often had no special wage developments in recent years and who are very difficult to say simply that I would like to have a super modern new heating system. Here, too, I think it is right to give money to the climate protection funds, to strengthen support measures, and, I am particularly pleased today, also strengthened by a motion for a resolution from this House, the Federal Government will develop a funding programme with the countries so that these people will quickly receive the latest heating plants with an average of 40 percent less CO2. This is active environmental protection. This federal government is committed to this. I think these new laws, which are presented today, are an essential further step in this direction, which is a real one. We are doing something for climate protection and we will also meet our objectives. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21270	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Head with three minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21292	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The most effective measure in climate protection is certainly the prevention of energy consumption – we still have a good piece to put back – but of course no less important is the substitution of fossil energy sources by, for example, renewables. We make a substantial contribution to this substitution with our eco electricity law. After all, Mr Pirklhuber, an increase in the share from one percent to 8 percent is not so bad. We will surely achieve the 15 percent – I have said it today – in 2010, also with the innovation of the eco electricity law. But we have to see that some problems have also arisen in the process of forcing alternative energy sources, including the price of raw materials, which is no longer shown in the feed-in tariffs that we grant. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: However!]] In the case of normal electricity production, prices simply and simply go up if prices for oil, gas or whatever are increasing on the raw material market. This possibility on the market does not have the aided energy sources and the generation of electricity from them. Therefore, it was certainly wise to come to the High House with this request and thus save these plants from the safe ruin – it is at least 300 eco-electric plants – but initially limited to a year – I also think it is reasonable to see how the development will continue on the raw material market. But these installations with this measure, which we are deciding today to save from the ruin, are certainly reasonable. Before putting new installations into the world with further funding money – what we will safely do – it would probably be a little unreasonable, already promoted to let installations built up with funding in the past be ruined. That is why I think we are setting up a proper, reasonable measure here – but under strict observation, how market prices will develop in the next few months. And we will have to come back to it after the end of the deadline or before the end of the deadline and discuss how these plants will continue. I would therefore ask you to agree to this request, because I think it is a much more reasonable one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21326	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21348	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! When Mr Bauer points out that the problems are being dealt with step by step, I have to say that this is a serious threat, which we now face in the Ecostrom Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] Last: What did we have? What happened ten months ago? Almost ten months ago, we had a climate summit, where unisono emphasized all the leaders of the government, we need a new eco electricity law. What happened almost ten months later? – Last week, Husch-pusch came to the Council of Ministers on Wednesday, which was decided in this form, went to the Committee on Thursday and was here in plenary a week later! There is already the question: All the parliamentary rules in this form, so to speak, to lift for an important story – for a proper review was no time – on the other hand, we are strict, we must say so in this clarity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The companies concerned, Mr. Kopf – and you always stress these companies – had no opportunity to say how they see it, nor the other affected companies in the field of wind, photovoltaics, small hydropower. [[Abg. Head: What do you think the application comes from?]] Now there is that in this form. And what's already bizarre is that you decided in 2006 a novel that de facto meant a blockade in the eco electricity sector. You have given the death blow to an industry, come with a patch now and find that great. Playing the Saviour here now has something bizarre. Mr Kopf, Mr Bauer: Raw material prices did not rise overnight. We have known for a long time that it explodes in this form. What is now available is of course also to be questioned in terms of efficiency, which has been so much discussed by the Federal Chancellor today, who stressed the importance of this. Mr. Kopf! If you make a broadcast in the morning and say: “Now that this pressure has been eliminated, one can focus on the new construction of efficient and energy-politically meaningful eco-electric systems,” the question arises: How do you really see this when you make such statements about this law? Finally, the question is: Do these plants, which are now being further promoted, actually meet the efficiency criteria? Is the waste heat actually used efficiently? – All these are things that have been considered in the assessment phase and have been drawn into the calculation, which does not happen. It's a flick work. A part is taken out, is now set up, yet for that – another bizarre element on the verge – with the money that has been left last year, € 11 million, and with which you expect it to be left again this year. They actually expect it to not work to cover practically one area. The Minister presented a novel, with an opinion on 7 November. ==References== Mr Kopf, if you say that 15 percent we reach, I say: Yes, we only achieve that because this goal has now been adapted – and you know it – so that it is easily accessible. When I calculate the small hydropower, it is not difficult to achieve that 2015 in this form. In the same way, there is a problem with the duration of funding, with the level of funding and with the overall volume of funding. It's also a problem – that's something that's been confirmed again today – that's what the technology of the future is going to come up with photovoltaics; that's not even in there. We Greens imagine this differently. A renewable energy law needs cornerstones, and an eco electricity law needs a total reform to finally bring the industry forward. This is important for climate protection, but also for security of supply in Austria, for the economy and for jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now finally a flick, but it will help a part of the industry. We will therefore agree with this part of the law today with the expectation and hope that there is an eco electricity law that actually corresponds to what is necessary in Austria, namely a 20-year funding period, fair tariffs, a purchase guarantee and at least a 50 million € funding volume. Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: Worth the name!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21411	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21433	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to join right now where my previous speaker stopped. An ambitious eco electricity law is also very important to me. I think that this relatively ambitious goal of 34 percent renewable energy can be achieved if we have the corresponding law. I also consider 45 percent to be accessible with the appropriate instruments. And this is exactly what the new law is about to create here, that we can promote and give them proper relevance to truly meaningful and sustainable renewable energies. Another sentence on the NoVA prize. I have already said this in committee: I think that this is a first small contribution towards ecologizing the tax system, a first small contribution, as I said. I think we could also have trusted a bigger step, a more courageous one. Nevertheless, I hope that the malus will lead to steering effects for the big “sinkers” that such cars may be bought less. And if not, the additional revenue will also flow into the climate and energy funds. I would now like to make the motion for a resolution that the Secretary of State has already mentioned. This is a motion for a resolution by the honourable Members on the use of the additional resources from the disposal of the mineral oil tax, which is intended to ensure that more revenue from this spray, as far as low sulphur mineral oil is concerned, is definitely to have an ecological effect. [[Quoted print version removed]] This has not been completely correct in grammatical terms, but I would nevertheless ask you to agree to the request. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21497	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21564	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement with 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21586	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! Have you ever asked why there must be ongoing innovations to the eco-power law? – Here again, a novelle is necessary, because it was simply a Husch-pusch-law. It was never well thought out, it never had a good base. Unfortunately, God's efforts to make novels do not take seriously the serious criticisms from the really well-founded renewable energy industries seriously. If you had the courage to take this criticism and the proposals from these companies in the renewable energy sector seriously, you would throw the entire eco electricity law into the trash and put into a completely new law. They would copy the EEG from Germany and would have made the solution. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] I have made the effort – Mrs State Secretary, you will then receive the documents from me – to make a comparison between the feed-in tariffs from the Eco electricity Act and those from the EEG. This is a very simple task, you could do just as well with Mr Bartenstein. They only needed to take the law back, write down and implement the possibilities in Austria. Consensus would certainly be a 20-year funding period in all areas – whether the wind energy, biomass, biogas, or, above all, photovoltaics. This would also ensure that businesses could plan and invest in the long term and thus also a stability in this area. We will, of course, agree today on this issue of increasing support for biogas installations. It is necessary to save these plants. It's necessary to help these people. Eco electricity from biowaste is a possible alternative, but only part of a possible new eco electricity law, because it is the biomass that can only be very efficient in terms of renewable energy. I am thinking of the overall energy balance, the problems of transport and processing. But it is also – and this has often been discussed – the ethical problem, the ethical question and the question of the consumption of food that we currently have to experience. That is, we need to highlight these interrelationships. We must also be careful that if we create this law again, it will be reasonable in the field of biomass. Mrs. State Secretary! I can hand over this convoy to you. I hope that it will lead to the reflections going in this direction too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21634	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auermit, a 2 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21658	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mrs and Mr State Secretary! High house! The problem of achieving the right balance between ecology and economics has boldly presented Mr Voest's example and the industry in particular, and especially our federal state, with regard to it. Of course, the location always determines the position: One is too much, the other is too little; one is supposed to be half empty, the other is glad because it is half full. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: ÖVP always has the same location, but always a different position!]] I mean, this law is a real step. It's not supposed to be the last one, that's undisputed. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that what is preached is actually implemented in this way. And there are a number of political groups that would be better off in terms of environmental protection and ecology, if they were silent. I recall the problem of hydropower station Lambach. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Go, Mr. Auer!]] There were very friendly occupations from this side, which then, my [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: There have been good reasons and there are still!]] Ladies and gentlemen... – have led to a good solution! [[Abg. Dr. Moser:... have led to a good solution!]] Well, I congratulate you! At least once the right decision of the Upper Austria ÖVP has been confirmed! Thank you, Mrs Moser, for this has always sounded different before. Anyway, people are happy, the energy is therefore sustainablely produced. Today we are pleased by this law that it can be done as a real small step, that various plants can also be rehabilitable with it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They can't be reorganised!]] I should like to make one more request in connection with the storm problems of the last few days: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21757	Mr Colleague, I am interrupting You don't mind: This request has already been tabled by Mr Bayr and by Mr Stummvoll.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21773	It is then obviously at the coordinating point between the two clubs. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Save our time!]] I would like to thank the President for his attention. There you can see that she's really on the train of time. I can save myself the lecture or the introduction of this motion for a resolution. In this context, however, attention should also be paid to the problems and to drama in these areas. Especially in my district, there was a bitter accident on the day of yesterday, where a woman was fatally unhappy with her son. And this should also be borne in mind during these hours: how difficult sometimes forest cleaning works are after such storms.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21812	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21834	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Auer, with regard to storm damage, I would also like to express my view on the part of my group when, of course, these problems are to be solved on the disaster fund as much as possible. However, this is also a sign that in recent years – you should never forget that! – the proportion of storm damage has increased dramatically. This is an impact of climate change. Here we are massively required to implement the appropriate strategies as well. - That's it. Now the novelle of the eco electricity law: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to look at the question more specifically and to show where the problems are. By 2003, Mr Auer, small plants in the field of biogas were built up to 100 kW. These plants were mainly operated – 90 percent – with economic fertilisers and organic waste, i.e. with waste and economic fertilisers, and only 8 to 10 percent with renewable raw materials. Mr Auer, in these plants – this was worked out in a beautiful study by the Federal Institute for Alpine Agriculture; at that time there were almost 90 plants – the share was also mainly grass, grassland, and a small proportion, about 30 percent, was in this time corn. Since 2004, the situation has changed twice: On the one hand, plant types have grown – there are now mainly plants between 100 kW and 1 000 kW – and there is a separation between purely agricultural and industrial plants. There you can see where the problems lie: In the purely agricultural plants today it is said to use economic fertilizers plus energy plants. This means that there is no longer, as it were, the waste chain that you make into electricity, but there you may now be using more food plants. You can see a problem that has become concrete from our point of view here. The second problem, Mr Auer, Mr Schultes, is that many operators have miscalculated. And I would like to make a very specific contribution from the “time” of the 24th century. Januarys quote where Othmar Schlager, the managing director of the Lower Austrian Energy Agency of the regions is quoted. He says: ‘This means that the operating costs of the plants were too low and, in the sales forecasts, a permanent operation with full performance was required. In addition, there had been warnings years ago that many newly built biogas plants would be wasting the natural waste heat out of use.” You see: A combination of heat and power was originally not considered binding in the context of investment support. That's where you see the deficits on this side. Then the question arises: Is this one-time solution a long-term solution for 2008? I would like to refer to the Federal Director Fritz Kaltenbrunn, who is quoted here. [[Abg. Grill: Then speak right: Kaltenegger!]] –He's wrong-quoted! Right. At the “time” stands “Kaltenbrunner”; his name is Fritz Kaltenegger! Thank you! – For Fritz Kaltenegger, “the financial syringe now decided does not go far enough: The producers would have to face the same problems again in a year and again beg for support.” – This is what the Farmerbund director Fritz Kaltenegger says. You see that the problems with this one-time story are absolutely not solved. From our point of view, therefore, the following things have to be dealt with as a matter of priority – in addition to the basic design of a renewable energy law; I can only repeat this kind of prayer mill: On the one hand, we need to change the investment framework, Mr Auer. As far as the investment framework is concerned, it must be clear that environmental consequences are respected, not only food plants, not monoculture silomais, but also sustainable grass – only as an example. In the second area, of course, it must be clear that we must necessarily improve the feed-in tariffs in the context of an overall reform. And third, that a concept should be forced, namely the introduction into the network. So far, we have two biogas plants that make this priority. And this is also one that we should move forward. For these reasons, we will not agree to this part at second reading. The other one has already made it clear to my colleague, Lichtenecker.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21873	The next speaker was Mr Gaßner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21895	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we follow this debate closely, we can see that: Everyone is for climate protection and everyone is for ecostrom, only how we get there, the spirits separate. I should like to add the following to my previous speaker's remarks: Kaltenegger sees this completely right. I have to say this in the context of this, because the deadline for a year, of course, is: Either we are promoting again next year or the businesses are going down, as is now presented. However, I have some questions about this. We are, of course, for these new laws today, but I'm wondering: Is it really just the fact that the operation of raw material prices is in need enough to immediately increase funding? Don't let's look at it and check it out. What about the business management? What about the strategies? – Is it not usual for other funding to put facts and figures on the table? The National Council has a first-quality audit body: the Court of Auditors. Why do we not let the Court of Auditors assess how these funds are used efficiently or efficiently so that next year we can have a proper budget? If we have to debate here again, do we have a basis for saving the eco-electric power plants or for letting them down? It can't be, Mr. Cot, that someone comes back and says: Hi, I'm sorry, I'm back in bankruptcy, I need a promotion! – This cannot be the goal of our promotion policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21931	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandel. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21952	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! I would like to refer to the section 27 which we have tabled in committee, namely the increase in the negative tax on commuters. I believe that today, when we take a new step towards ecologizing the tax system again, we should of course also take into account those people who may be faced with a higher nova tax. They often don't choose to drive the car to work! I do not fully understand the criticism made by Mr Rossmann. He has told us in the Committee and today in plenary that it is this whole pendulum rate and also the increase in the negative tax or the negative tax from it at all a premium for the cutting-off policy. I think so – and I am a Vienna MP! – that we must take this situation seriously. Especially for people – and there are a lot of women affected! – who work part-time and thus have a lower income and do not pay tax, we need this measure. It is good and right, with 15 percent of social security contributions limited by 240 €, to raise this negative tax for commuters who have a claim for a penalty. I believe that criticism is not appropriate because many cannot choose and many public transport are simply incompatible with many professions, many jobs. I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor and the Minister of Finance and also the Secretary of State for allowing us to decide on this measure today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e21983	Next speaker: Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22004	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I think the greening law, which provides tax incentives for environmentally friendly vehicles and heating oils, is just enough for some, for others too little. It is, as I believe, a first step. That has been said many times today. I should just like to point out that I have noticed very positively that this bill addresses the gender mainstreaming chapter, namely the impact of this bill on men and women. What makes me less satisfied is the sentence that stands by. But I think the title's there once. The sentence, which stands as it stands – I want to read it immediately – implies that there is no data situation yet and that it is now a start that we take these things seriously. In fact, the sentence reads as follows: ‘The amendments to the present draft do not allow for a meaningful allocation to men and women.’ I don't see that because I think that smaller cars are more likely to be bought by women from lack of money and more sprit-eating cars maybe by men. Because there is no data on this, the sentence might be that way. But I think it's very positive that this is happening. Finally, only one sentence to increase the pendler's fee: I also believe that this measure, this negative tax, especially – and we have heard this many times today – benefits people with small incomes, small incomes. It is also mainly about women. I think that's a good measure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22043	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22065	Thank you, Madam President. My dear Secretary of State! Appreciate High House! We now have three important issues to decide on. These are important for those who are concerned, for all of us often very technical topics. First on the issue of desulphurisation of fuel oil. The danger is that many people now believe, because there is a promotion for the conversion, we also want oil to be heated. I would strongly recommend that everyone consider taking advantage of this support action. If you need heating oil, then as far as possible, you have only been defoliated. It is still better to switch to wood pellets than to heating oil, because you never know how prices will develop. The second topic is NoVA, a very important topic. We know that there are cars that have alternative drives and can use considerably better fuels than mineral diesel or petrol. It is particularly important that we also have Flex-Fuel cars – these are normal petrol cars that can also drive with E85. Unfortunately, the CO2 advantage is not taken into account. These de facto have less than half of CO2 emissions than a conventional petrol car. The next important point is our biogas plants. Who says that a raw material price doubling cannot be found in the final price, has no idea of economies. With a producer of electricity from natural gas – for example, the EVN – no one is surprised that the electricity becomes more expensive when the natural gas becomes more expensive before the turbine. Especially in the organic biogas plants should it be different?- Oh, my God! It is said that the raw material is becoming more expensive, but the electricity must not become more expensive. For this to be “hearing”, you need a Court of Auditors. I congratulate Mr Gaßner on his economic theoretic competence! I would like to thank all those who vote today and very much hope that this will lead to good progress in the green electricity movement in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22105	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22128	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Transport is one of the main contaminants of pollution. This is a fact that we are all aware of. The spraying of the NoVA, which certainly also has a steering effect, is therefore a logical step. This is a step that can only be congratulated on the relevant members of the government. Those who more heavily tax the environment with CO2 or nitrogen oxides must also pay higher taxes on the purchase of cars. If you buy low-pollutant cars, you pay less. I am firmly convinced that this regulation will certainly also lead to a very close look at how much CO2 a car emits, and then you will only choose a model. Because from 1st. Each gram of CO2 costs 25 € more on July 2008, when it goes over 180 g per kilometer. Anyone below 120 g can save 200 € in the future. Anyone who chooses a hybrid or a gas-powered car gets a very generous bonus of 500 €, as I mean. It'll be expensive for the great ones. But that is the meaning and purpose of the matter. As a Burgenlander, where there is – unfortunately God, you have to say! – very, very many commuters give, I am glad that you don’t let the professional commuters pay the token here. Therefore, I think it is extremely positive that our Minister of Finance Wilhelm Molterer raised the penalty to 240 € and decided on a positive change at the Pendler Pauschale. You just have to take into account that mobility has not been a luxury for a long time. Mobility is also a basis for our economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22162	The next speaker is Dr. Maier. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22183	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Jakob Auerhat spoke about the balance of economics and ecology and, in a sense, it is taking a real step here. This has prompted me to quote a thinker, a visionary, almost a problem solver, who referred to the really important issues in the ‘standard’ field of economic policy, especially in the ‘standard’ of yesterday, in connection with the question of the interest rate of the European Central Bank, which the debate on recession meant that one must take action and be the best one: ‘no step in the wrong direction’. So as the only measure: do not take a step in the wrong direction. – This visionary was Mr. Alfred Gusenbauer, who, when he gets into the plane, obviously does not know what step you are taking in the right direction. That's where he got it in the 1st place. ==References====External links== That's great. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] In so far as I believe that you should draw your visionary and Federal Chancellor's attention to this: It's not about the hot air, it's really about measures – which he doesn't know how to put. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22233	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft Ecologisation Act 2007 in 406 of the Supplements. Mr Weinzinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr Moser. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposal and on the parts of the bill concerned by the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been agreed. Mr Lutz Weinzinger, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 1 in Article 1, together with the resulting renumbering of the numberings. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 2 of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority and thus also at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on tax relief of low consumption cars. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on the effective reduction of CO2 emissions from new cars by setting long-term emission limits. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Schüssel, Dr. Cap, colleagues on rapid and unbureaucratic aid for victims of the hurricane “Paula”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 58.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, Mr President, on the use of the additional funds from the disposal of mineral oil tax. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 59.) Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law amending the Ökostrom Act and the Income Tax Act in 442 of the Supplements. Hiezu is a request of the honourable Member Mag. Mr Rossmann on a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts of the draft law concerned by the request and then on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall first proceed to a separate vote on Article 1 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I ask that Ladies and gentlemen, who are giving their approval to a positive sign. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on 'More for commuters: ecologically and socially fairer design of commuting, offensive by train and bus'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:16:01]] 5. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the 2006 foreign policy report (III-80 d.a.) the Federal Government (347 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22435	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker, I ask Mrs Mag. Lunacek to the speaker's desk. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22464	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary Winkler! In addition, there was the short-term pleasure of seeing both the State Secretarys responsible for the Working Group on the Development of a Stage Plan for the Development of the Cooperation Budget sitting together on the Government Bank; Unfortunately, State Secretary Matznetter has already escaped. It is also not his subject area, I know – he is even over there – but I would have liked that perhaps today, on the occasion of the discussion on the foreign policy report that we finally have in plenary, after years of completion in the committee, the two State Secretarys would have made a statement on what it is to be like with the financing of Austrian development cooperation in the coming years, by 2010. In the 2006 foreign policy report, it is praiseful to mention how great Austria has used 0.52 percent of GNI for development cooperation in 2006. This implies or is supposed to mean that it will continue in this way. We need the 0.51 percent by 2010. We know exactly – Mr Matznetter, Secretary of State Winkler and all of those here in this House who are dealing with this issue – that these 0.52 percent have been achieved only because there have been debts that were still available for 2007. But for 2009 and 2010 there are hardly any more debts. The two Secretarys of State are obviously still working on perhaps proposing something here. According to the EU Roadmap, they should have made a proposal at the end of last year. The Council, I believe, decided in May 2007. Unfortunately, there is still nothing. This is probably one of the reasons why we cannot vote in favour of this report by the Greens, because this is a little bit of praise, to say that we already have 0.52 percent of the gross national income for EZA in 2006 but not to mention that it is completely unclear how Austria should achieve this European target for 2010. If it is true that in part or even in part you count Chad's use, I would also like to hear it publicly – I'm going to make a request – but you won't reach the 0.51 percent either. I still have a mystery as to how this should work, and that is, as I said, one of the reasons for this – apart from the very late debate in 2008 on a 2006 report – that we will reject this report. Let me turn to another issue that is being discussed in this report, which has also been waved in the last few days: the visa affair. I thought yes, and many in the foreign office had hoped that the court proceedings that are pending now, and also the conviction at least one defendant, had done the case now. In the preface to the foreign policy report, the Minister writes: “With our visa granting agencies abroad, we also offer a first external safety belt for our country. Its high quality will be continuously examined together with the Federal Ministry of the Interior and, where necessary, further improved.” In the text, it goes on to say – that was already in 2005; in 2006, the Commission prepared a report under the former Foreign Minister Jankovitsch – “there was no reference to a criminal network” – it is not in that there has been individual criminal cases very well – “improvement proposals have been implemented... by numerous measures”. I have already wondered, Mr President-in-Office Winkler, how it can be – even if your Secretary-General Johannes Kyrle said this morning in the morning in the “Morgenjournal” that one has always followed the accusations – that yesterday or yesterday at court a general consul says that he has been put under pressure, so he has not reported this. Four hours later he was called up. You didn't get that until that was said in court? The whole controls over all these years have been of no use? That's where I wonder where there were controls. Or is it true that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs some – and I know that there are very few, but still – are under pressure because they are told: We need these visa applications for the economy, we need them so that people can come in to a large extent, and we don't see who they are!Unknown term type: "%s".? What I don't want, I say as a green person, is that it then partially turns to the other extreme that people who want to go to Austria are exposed to great shocks. I know that the Ministry of the Interior is also involved, and I wonder why the Ministry of the Interior has not yet been considered more closely, because many of the requests that come to the embassies must then be sent to the Ministry of the Interior, but it is really inexplicable to me – and perhaps you can explain it to us today – how it can be if you have always followed the accusations that someone in the final effect has to say something in court so that you can call it out. This is really incomprehensible, Mr State Secretary. I am also incomprehensible, as it may be, that at least two high-level officials who are accused of visa abuse are still working in the Development Cooperation Section. How's that going? These lack of controls, which seem to still exist, and this is a bit of a laisser-fair: let us take them down, let us bring them into the house, let us put them somewhere where they hopefully do no harm, Mr State Secretary, that cannot be the way in which we deal with officials and officials, against which massive accusations are raised and against which, among other things, judicial proceedings are pending. Let me – the time is short, I know, it's already late – also talk about other issues from the foreign policy field. Of course, the 2006 foreign policy report also concerns the Austrian EU Presidency, the Balkans were also a priority, and we welcome this in principle. But what I very much regret, even given the fact that there will now be an election in Serbia between Tadić, the Pro-European, and Nikolić, the decided anti-European, nationalists, given that 70 percent of students in Serbia have never been able to travel abroad, is that Austria has not been more committed during its presidency to the fact that there is, in fact, visa freedom for the successor countries of Yugoslavia. In spite of visas, organised crime manages to enter, as we know, but people who want to travel to visit their relatives and acquaintances, young people who want to look at this Europe of which they are all indulging, as many of us have done, as we have done. younger ones, they don't have a chance. And then you wonder if nationalism increases and if there is a danger that a majority in Serbia will elect a Nikolić as president? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr State Secretary, this is an example of where I believe that the Austrian Presidency and the Austrian foreign policy have not done enough. At the end of the presidency, I know you have granted a little visa freedom for students and for certain groups of people. But that's too little. We need visa freedom for Europe throughout the Balkans, otherwise the risk of further nationalist tendencies is very high. To the Middle East still a few words. I welcome it – you may be surprised now, but it is still so – that in the next few days in February, the Foreign Minister will make a trip to Lebanon, Israel, Palestine and Syria. I would have liked to hear from her today – unfortunately we had no opportunity to do so – which, for example, was her role in Anápolis, which she takes away from, for example, the consequence of her Middle East Women's Conference, which she held and which I believe to be positive. We have not yet had a chance in Parliament to hear from her what is going on. I know this evening, right now, a dialogue with journalists from the region is taking place in the Kreisky Forum, but it would be great if the Foreign Minister once told us about it in Parliament. On Gaza, I would be very interested to see whether the Foreign Minister will also work on a broad political dialogue during her trip, for this is not the way forward. Given the potential for violence that exists in Gaza, the EU also needs tremendous efforts, otherwise there will be no solution. To Syria: I consider it very positive that the foreign minister is going to Syria. I think it is important for a solution in the Middle East to include Syria, and I very much hope that the Foreign Minister will also address the human rights question in Syria. It was only recently that one of the country's leading human rights activists, one of the founders of the Damascene Spring Initiatives of 2001, Rahid Saif, was arrested, and Syria has lifted the moratorium for the death penalty that it finally had for some time. People are being executed again. Mr State Secretary, I very much hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will include the words of great criticism which she expresses in the broadcasts, because if one is already committed to the Middle East, then these words must also follow suit. But I have not yet seen this to the extent that I would have liked it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22562	Next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel with 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22583	Madam President. High house! The 2006 foreign policy report, of course, refers primarily to the exciting and demanding year of the EU Presidency for us. Because of the lack of time, I can only congratulate the fact that this has been very narrow and precisely summarized. Gas crisis solved, financial perspective solved, service directive, “Sound of Europe”, a whole series of cultural activities that have run, especially the in-move-branch of the reform debate, by, for example, being “boxed” by the Foreign Ministers of the Way in Klosterneuburg for a timetable which we will now ratify, according to the efforts of the German Presidency for the mandate for the new reform treaty. Furthermore, the affirmation of the Balkan perspective, which was very questionable at the time; also the Serbia and Croatia and Turkey strategy. Serbia has perspective, Croatia has been disconnected, negotiations are under way, I think, very good and professional. Turkey has a completely different track and is clearly disconnected from all other negotiations. – That was in total, I think, very satisfactory. We congratulate you. The Latin America Summit, the international talks, well documented everything. The women's conference on the Middle East with Condoleezza Rice last year; Arab and Palestinian women came to a successor or follow-up seminar of media representatives in Vienna. Also very important: The Serbians and Kosovarins met with Wolfgang Ischinger at the last meeting of the Troika a few weeks ago. In fact, Mrs Lunacek, you can be glad that a year with a budget of 0.5 percent for development cooperation has been recorded. Why you vote against now, you have to explain that. We do not understand – we agree with pleasure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22620	As the next speaker, Mr Bösch is speaking with 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22641	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary Winkler, I am pleased that you are representing Mrs. Plassnik today, because we, as a member of the opposition, are almost preferable to discuss with you, because we occasionally learn more about substantial content in your place of business from your side than from your head of the department. I would like to take the 2006 report on foreign policy on the following application, on behalf of the FPÖ: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we liberals want to participate constructively in the debate in the Constitutional Committee on this reform treaty. We have also done this in the Convention, and we will do so in the coming weeks. However, we have never left a doubt that at the end of the ratification process, there must be a national referendum on a constitutional or reform treaty. This demand on our part is a clear and clear one, and we will continue to raise it in the context of this debate in the future, because some things have also been changed in the reform treaty, which do not appear in this clarity, as has been the case in the Constitutional Treaty. Much is hidden in this reform treaty, especially in order to take only one point out, the absolute priority of EU law, which is no longer explicitly reflected in the text of the Treaty, but which is clearly highlighted in the comments. The priority of EU law, ladies and gentlemen – and we should now have become illegitimate – is a very selective reality, because this priority of EU law, for example in university access, for example when it comes to the authorisation of genetically modified foods, is not valid when it comes to human rights, it is not valid when it comes to abolishing laws such as the Beneš and AVNOJ decrees. This selective priority of EU law, Ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed, and we liberals will act against it. One important point is that the negotiations on Turkey's accession continue and that the Republic of Austria did not stop negotiations on various occasions during 2006 that were necessary, a negotiated stop that has been repeatedly announced by the two Federal Government parties at different levels, but which has never been made a condition in the context of a vote, a unanimous vote at European level, on a condition that would at last have led to the EU's being more open and also more fair towards the Republic of Turkey. The third point, Mr State Secretary, which I would like to address, is the issue of visas. We can also read in the media how this climate has developed there – I quote from the “profile”: “The Schengen Consulates are surrounded by a half-paged industry from travel agencies, insurance agents and visa consultants who are getting money for everything that is necessary for a proper visa application:...” Today’s issue of the newspaper “The Press” clearly states that the Johann German, general consul of Budapest, had been ordered back to Vienna after he had openly consented to have known of the now accused trade in visas. Mr Winkler, with regard to this visa affair, it is becoming increasingly clear that under the pattern of your house, under the pattern of the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a mafia structure has emerged, which is now emerging step by step. We liberties want to speed up this step-by-step approach by inviting you, ladies and gentlemen, to the National Council, our request for a [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The Committee of Inquiry will then be able to give its assent and to request sufficient information from the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Another point, Mr. State Secretary, is the case of Major Lang. You know, he was born on 25 May. He was killed on July 20, 2006 by an Israeli air attack in Lebanon. We liberals have asked you a few questions that you have answered, but in which you have claimed that everything has been done enough from your home, including this family, which is why I was surprised that in the magazine “NEWS” a few weeks ago I had to read this report, this interview by the mother of the Majors Lang, in which this woman says that the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has abandoned her and has not supported her concerns. Mr Winkler, I would like to ask you if your place of business has entered into contact with the Lang family in the last few weeks and has made an attempt to re-evaluate this manco of this family, or if I would like to ask you to see to what extent the investigations of your home regarding the process that led to the death of Major Lang have been done. I also asked you a question. We are eager for your answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22741	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Arbitrators with a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22763	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First to the Middle East follow-up seminar: I regret that the Gazaan representative was unfortunately unable to arrive at the seminar because she could not leave Gaza and because, I think, even too late, she was started to create an opportunity to bring her here. The point I wanted to address very shortly today is the Balkans, the Western Balkans. I believe that there is the main objective of creating peace and stability, and also the pre-accession of the Western Balkans to Europe and its integration into the EU. Austrian foreign policy has always been ambitious in the Balkans – even in the period under review and today – and has always defined this as a key issue. Nevertheless, I see some problems where I think that the European Union as a whole should be more ambitious: Whether it be the name question of Macedonia, where Greece – logically – is blocking, but also the unfortunate fact that Kosovo's status negotiations have continually been speeded up with domestic elections in Serbia, and the fact that, in fact, we in the European Union are talking much too late on about stability and association agreements and that we have not been able to address the visa question already at the beginning of last year or in the first half of last year. We are active in the region. I am sorry that only one woman among the many there is active in Kosovo. The important thing from today's point of view is to ensure the European Union's possible consistency and uniform approach and also to ensure that the development of public, state, administrative and judicial structures in Kosovo is supported. The important thing in this context is, I believe, not the Time, but the important thing is the way. And the second important thing is the implementation of security and guarantees for minorities, including the Serbian minority in this area – and the method of action by all those involved, especially the sense of mind. Leave But you also address me to a second point, from the up-to-date point of view, but also from the context, namely the visa affair. Of course, this does not fall into the term of office of the current minister, but rather into that of her predecessor. I do not believe that there is an accusation here, but it is quite important to draw the right conclusions and also to take the right action quickly and openly. And above all, it is important to mention the following: the change in the fragmentation, so that not all files are destroyed so early, also a critical evaluation and control of this Bona-fide qualification and also a critical renewal and evaluation of this Honorary Consul system, which is unfortunately also misused. I am counting on Mr Winkler and also Mrs Plassnik to deal openly and offensively with this issue in the future and to make the necessary reforms and also the necessary cuts and cuts in the system. I believe that this is also necessary in order to ensure that the many officials can make good and difficult work in the field of visas unchallenged. One thing has to be said: that very many employees, most of them, do an important and excellent work in this area, and this was also mentioned positively in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22811	First of all, I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bösch has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22914	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Haimbuchner with a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22936	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I am pleased that you, Secretary of State Winkler, are giving us the honour. Mrs Plassnik – which we are already used to – does not come to Parliament: It does not come to a foreign policy committee, nor does it come to the debate of the foreign policy report here at the plenary session. I don't know, the last time she was in the baptism of the pandabary baby Fu Long. We have heard that Fu Long is supposed to go out of the cave in Schönbrunn in the fresh air. Perhaps the woman's foreign minister is staying there? At least I don't know what to do. In order to address the foreign policy report very briefly: We have a very thick report here, with a chapter on foreign Austrians, a chapter on human rights, a chapter on refugees – certainly very important chapters – but there is no chapter, not even a sub-chapter, on the question of the displaced, the Beneš decrees in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the AVNOJ decisions in Slovenia. In the report of the Foreign Minister, Mr Plassnik, this important question, which would have been worth at least one sub-chapter, can only be addressed indirectly in the back: It is mentioned there that there have once been two visits. However, I can only refer to the following: Recently, the Czech Prime Minister Topolánek visited us here in Austria. What's been demanded? – Austria is supposed to calm down at Temelín, Austria is supposed to give rest to the missile defence shield, Austria is supposed to remove the labour market restrictions! And, please, who has addressed the Prime Minister to the Beneš decrees? . We do not even find in this thick report two sentences on the Beneš decrees, on people who have been expelled, on people who have been treated as right-wing people, people who have built our country, people who have done essential for democracy in Austria. This is not worth a single sentence, and I say to you one, ladies and gentlemen: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It's embarrassing! Shame on it! – But Mrs. Plassnik cannot be ashamed of it because she is not even here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22978	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e22999	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too will take a short look. The EU Presidency has already been addressed. I think it was for a small country like Austria a truly not only well organized, but very ambitiously implemented presidency – with German Chancellor Schüssel at that time, Vice Chancellor Gorbach, Social Minister Haubner, Minister of Justice Gastinger. [[Call to the ÖVP: These were still times!]] You're perfectly right: Those were still times! There was also a corresponding activity in a common policy of the Federal Government. Of course, it wasn't all done at the time. I would have liked you to bring some more ideas and inputs to the European discussion from Austria, even though you may not be able to put yourself through. But for example, the idea – which Ahtisaari then published – of an independence of Kosovo would have been interesting, the question: How can it really continue with a European Union, now independent of the Constitution and the Reform Treaty?, or a stronger line with regard to the termination of accession negotiations or alternatives to Turkey's membership. – Nevertheless, as I think, the development was certainly a very positive one. This report also mentions the importance of foreign operations. We have already discussed this today on the basis of Chad's use. I would also like to stress the importance of this commitment, just as we had it with the Golan or with Kosovo at the time. Only, of course, should these foreign operations be prepared in a professional manner; secondly, Mr Winkler, the Federal Government should ensure that the costs are replaced by the federal army, which is of particular importance, and thirdly, that these operations are also prepared in a professional manner by the European Union. This is because, as it is now happening again, the rebels are being signaled in Chad, but the great European Union, which does not even bring helicopters together in months of discussion, is certainly not a delight for the European Union's foreign policy and security policy. It is also necessary that security policy – and, of course, foreign policy is involved here – put these foreign operations into a comprehensive strategic approach. There is also the question of economic policy to be considered: How can Austrian companies take a better foothold in these areas, where Austria is also active, for example in the Balkans? – The Germans present this to us very skillfully. – What about development cooperation? What projects are supported and promoted by Austria especially in these areas, where Austrian soldiers are also stationed, because this again promotes the image of the Austrian troops? And how can we support the development of civil structures in these areas? – I think you can still develop some ideas. Otherwise, I can only mention here that my group will vote in favour of this 2006 foreign policy report – not only because it falls within our time of government, but because I believe that it is of particular importance – we once had it, then for a time no longer, for party-political reasons here in the House – that we should try to achieve a common consensus in foreign policy as far as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23036	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23057	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank those who, in the meantime, have become an important and indispensable reference work. At this point I would also like to thank all the employees – and these are very many – who have contributed to the compilation of this report. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This report covers 2006, but it is from this report, I believe, and also from today's debate that, between 2006 and the problems, the problems of foreign policy and European policy that concern us today, there is a close connection and continuity, because this is the essential element of Austrian foreign and European policy: continuity and for many years the continuation of our essential priorities. Mr Klubobmann Schüssel said: The Treaty of Lisbon has not least come about because, under the Austrian Presidency in Klosterneuburg, the important cornerstones were laid down, both in terms of the timetable and in terms of content. I can tell you that two days ago at the meeting of the Ministers of Europe in Brussels, all the states reported that they had started the ratification process in the meantime and that 22 states had expressed their intention of ending the ratification process before the summer, including three major states, and that it is now also clear that only a single state will have a referendum. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... that this is so fast! – I don’t understand!]] I can only say very briefly, Mrs Lunacek: I can't deal with development cooperation in detail now, I can only assure you of one thing: Whatever is always acceptable and is counted by Austria, it is not because it is so popular in Austria, but only because of joint decisions taken by all, both in the OECD and in the EU. This also applies to peace missions, where there are very specific and very detailed rules, which Austria naturally considers to be. And as far as the ODA path is concerned, it is very serious. And be assured that a good report will come about. It has been addressed by several of the cases of issuing visas. Here again, Mrs Lunacek, I would like to stress – I have said this more often here, I say it again: Of course, we are always everyone – everyone! – Notes that irregularities have occurred. But as we know from all areas of life, even from many other areas of life, a 100% control is simply not possible. And it has not been so that only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would have followed these remarks, but it was also the prosecutor's office, it was also the Court of Auditors, and it was also the Ministry of the Interior. I would also like to mention something which seems important for the perspective of the whole cases: There have been a total of 35 criminal investigations. Of these, there were 23 attitudes, two legitimate acquittals, six disciplinary adjudications, a dismissal and a termination. So I think it is still on the basis of the current court proceedings, but I find that it is individual perpetrators – and it is being done against them with all the hardness. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Those measures that have been taken have also contributed very much to visa security in the light of the findings we are now gaining from the procedures and will continue to do so in the future. The measures requested by the honourable Member have been taken: Scrutinisation measures have been changed and all measures have been taken. It will never be ruled out that there will be further painting, but be assured that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is first of all interested in clarifying these cases. I can't deal with all the issues. I would like to thank you very much once again for the approval of this report and I am pleased that we foreign policy issues here in plenary and in the Committee – and of course the Foreign Minister is also very happy to do so and will do so again and again – will continue to be debated in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23111	Mr Fichtenbauer spoke as the next speaker. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23132	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The Lisbon Treaty is accompanied by the political class in such a way that the speakers are divided into a good and less good sector. The good ones are those who are working to ensure that there is nowhere to be a democratic voting process, as far as possible across Europe, and the bad, these are “natural” people like my group who are “fearing”, democratic control mechanisms to call for a vote. This tongue blow is also happening here, and it is therefore not surprising that we will not give the spirit behind this report, which has naturally been created ambitiously, and the employees who have made this report are to be praised. Secondly, There is no doubt that the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in particular by Foreign Minister Plassnik, has practised the Chad mission. But now it is the case that the whole belfry hangs on the Minister of Defense, so to speak. This is unfair – and the Foreign Minister has left him completely in the rain in the worst preparation by the EU. This is a very bad performance – at “Neudeutsche” –. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23172	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck, who has two minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23193	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today, alongside all the other things that have come, the foreign policy report. [[The speaker's phone is ringing.]] - Excuse me, my phone! [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: That must not be true!]] It can happen. [[New general hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] See it in the carnival week as a little carnival joke from me! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the 2006 foreign policy report, a report that was drawn up a year ago and a long time ago. And I think that it should be seen, in all the topicality of the events that have taken place in the meantime. Mr Winkler has said that it is an extensive reference work – and I can confirm it. This, I believe, is a reference work for anyone interested in foreign policy, where he can find everything related to Austria and foreign policy. Congratulations and thank you for the creation! The critical reports that have come must also be seen as such, but I think one can nevertheless note that there is a common ground in Austrian foreign policy. I assume that all parties support the application of Austria for a non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council that there are no discussions there. I also see the role of parliamentarians in the OSCE as positive, on whose mission we are more often on election observation, and I believe that it is a useful institution that those countries that have the difficult task of submitting to democratic rules, which were used to only dictatorships for 50, 60 years and longer, are led to democratic values as we understand them. This is a difficult path, a rocky path for many, but I believe that we must help them as responsible democracies, as we call ourselves. This includes, of course, the involvement in election observations, the assistance of the OSCE in field missions, in international activities. Mr Winkler, I have a request: We should try to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Albania as soon as possible. It is already decided, but my knowledge is difficult to translate into German. This is the reason for the delay, and I therefore ask that this be done as soon as possible in the interests of stabilisation also in the Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the end. The ORF fees are currently under discussion, including the reporting of the ORF. I end up with a four-liner: What Chancellor Gusenbauer can do for a long time, the ORF. They are not talking about fees, they are simply upgraded. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23264	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23285	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary, you are right, this foreign policy report can be a reference work, but it is not a reference work from the outset. You could just as well take a geography atlas. A foreign policy report should, of course, also address problems, and it is a popular shame not to write such things in, to write reports in such a way that the interested ones feel displeased. And that also expresses exactly the policy of Mrs Plassnik's Foreign Minister. It is not in a position to address real problems. If she travels to France, she appeals to French interests, she travels to England, she speaks English – and if Plassnik travels to Slovenia, she addresses Slovenian interests. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Where did you get this?]] The good Commissioner for Foreign Affairs should consider also addressing Austrian interests. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: She always does!]] When I read her report and her visit to Slovenia, I see culture, scientific relations, cultural projects and so on. The real problems we have with the Republic of Slovenia are not mentioned in any way. Apparently, the foreign minister is not aware that there is something like a Slovenian responsibility to the German minority, the old-Austrian minority in Slovenia. In her visit to Slovenia, the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany speaks to the Hungarian minority, the Croatian minority, the Italian minority – and completely forgets that there is also an old Austrian minority that is still suffering from the AVNOJ decisions. No human has ever thought of addressing this AVNOJ issue in this report. It can't be! There are censuses from 1910/1915, where 200 000 Germans, old Austrians, lived in the influence area of Slovenia. The AVNOJ decisions still apply to those today, decisions they make to be bird-free people. It can't be! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] If the Foreign Minister had been a bit fair, you would have also had to address the issue of the Austrian-Slovenian cultural agreement. To date, Austria has contributed a great deal to the fact that Slovenia has received support in its accession, in securing borders, in including the EU, in the implementation of Schengen and so on. However, Slovenia is not the least welcome in the area of recognition of the German minority. There is no promotion of mother tongue learning, no promotion of media presence and so on. These are problems which the Foreign Minister completely conceals and which she does not want to talk about. Of course, that can't be. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Because it would simply be embarrassing given the local panel question in Carinthia!]] Another thing to add: If you speak of the town boards today, Mrs Trunk, then ask where the German town boards are located in Slovenia. It would be appropriate to set up German local boards where there are German groups, in Slovenia, in the Czech Republic and elsewhere. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: You are so beyond! You are internationally so beyond!]] What has also completely gone down with the foreign minister is the following: The fact that there is something like an association of the German People's Group in Slovenia has not lost a word about it. I would therefore like to remind you here, too, Mr State Secretary, that this German People's Group in Slovenia had to address a memorandum to the State of Slovenia because Austrian governance was unable to address it. We call on the Republic of Slovenia to adopt appropriate legislation on the status and protection of the German People's Group in Slovenia and to provide in the State budget certain funds for their financing, since this group is neither governed by the Constitution nor by any law, although it has undoubtedly been autonomous since at least the 14th century. The group has no collective protection as an unaccepted group and has no change whatsoever despite the conclusion of international treaties, such as cultural agreements. In memory of Mrs. Plassnik, Mrs. Plassnik: There can never be an entrance to international understanding. If Austria is ready to help Slovenia, Slovenia must also be ready to help the German People's Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23381	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23403	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As we are currently in appeals, Mr Klement, I appeal to the head of the Kärntner State to finally comply with laws and, above all, to learn from the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] If we are discussing the 2006 foreign policy report today, this is not only a retrospect, but also an opportunity to take stock, so to speak, as a first evaluation of measures taken. Especially at European level, a number of initiatives have been launched during the reporting period, which are now in the implementation phase and in part also bear fruit. In the preface to the report, very promising objectives for the Presidency had already been mentioned at the time: more jobs, growth, energy security, safeguarding and developing the European model of life, although this would have to be further defined. We can look back very proudly in Austria after a year of government Gusenbauer that many of these goals were really more than fulfilled. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't believe that yourself!]] We can be proud that together we have been able to drastically reduce unemployment, especially youth unemployment. We can be proud of this together. [[Calls to the Greens.]] To return to the report: A very important change has been made by the agreement on the 2007 to 2013 financial framework. It is not often enough to stress the importance of structural funding for the Austrian infrastructure. I myself come from a region which, after the decline of lignite mining, was able to cope with the structural transformation from a former mining region to a service region, to a commercial region. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] It is not always known that there are well-known EU co-financings in so many large projects such as employment initiatives. This is a great task for local politicians to communicate this fact, so that the population can see what is happening to EU funds in their region. [[Abg. Steibl: Here I'm excited about what's going on in Voitsberg...!]] That is why I would ask you to continue to communicate this. I think I'll run open doors with you too, Mrs Steibl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23472	Next, Mr Glaser. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23493	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! A larger chapter in this foreign policy report is devoted to development cooperation. I think one can say in summary that Austria is doing good work there. We also saw this on the occasion of a trip to Mozambique, where the five developmental speakers were involved. We could see that on the one hand the local employees really have the acceptance of the base, but on the other hand also good contacts with the government agencies, and just as I think development cooperation on the ground should work. I believe that overall development cooperation is becoming more and more important, not least in Africa, a continent with many conflicts, with much unrest, a continent in decline, as we see in the media every day. I think Austria and Europe are doing well to get involved in this. Not least because of this, I also believe that the use of our federal army in Chad is absolutely important, together with other European countries. Only if political conditions in these countries succeed in stabilizing if democratic structures are built will it also be possible to have economic success. And only if this economic success benefits a broad mass will it be possible to have lasting success in development cooperation. Austria is there, I mean, on a good path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23534	Mrs Bayr's next speech. Also 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23556	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the Tsunami aid, which was also done in 2006, among other things, under the rule of Schüssel II, will not go into history as a model example of international disaster aid. In my opinion, there was also a lack of transparency, not only that the sums that have been promised have not been done by the federal side. There were quite a lot of contradictions between the two interim reports that existed in the first year, and the response of various requests, where some sums and projects did not really fit together, where some of the public funds and donations were mixed, where there were relatively unsightly human refreshments, where the coordination did not really work. But this also has a very sharp effect on the effectiveness of local aid, because when representatives of a well-half dozen ministries, nine federal states and a lot of NGOs come to a country that has just been hit by a terrible disaster – and this happens not only from Austria, but also from many other countries, almost the half-world – then, of course, those who are there and urgently need help are very overwhelmed. I think we certainly agree that we all want a disaster like that of a tsunami to never happen again. But despite all this, I think we should learn from this example of the Austrian tsunami aid and draw conclusions. I would really like to see an honest, constructive maneuver criticism and hope that in the future it will be possible to do better, more coordinated, more effective and more transparent in such a situation – and above all, that it is no longer necessary to make public-truth promises that will not then be fulfilled somewhere. I know that the Austrians are very helpful, whether as donors or as taxpayers, and we should not let them down on this question. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23589	Next comes Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. Also 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23610	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Let me take the opportunity to report to you today during the debate on the foreign policy report on what is happening in the Council of Europe, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Last week, there was a week of session in the Council of Europe. There are some of the colleagues here in Parliament who were also members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I can tell you new things. There is a new president called Lluís Maria de Puig, a Spanish. We Austrians have a Vice-President and are now again represented in the Bureau of the Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to congratulate Mr Fritz Neugebauer, who represents Austria in the office of the Parliamentary Assembly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Scheibner, what I can say to you: In the Council of Europe, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we speak with one voice. There is a uniform opinion and good cooperation. This is tradition, and we continue to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The tasks of the Council of Europe are illustrated very briefly: to manifest and develop recommendations, resolutions, directives and standards of human rights in the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. Last week's agenda was, among other things, very short as a demolition: It must have spoken and answered Georgia's re-elected President Sakashvili. This was not easy, but the Council of Europe asked the relevant questions. It was an interesting program. For example, Michel Platini also commented on the role of sport in Europe. There have been important, controversial discussions on the future status of Kosovo. I would like to tell you more, but the time is, unfortunately, too short. However, there will be an even greater opportunity to report to you here in Parliament on our work in the Council of Europe. It's an interesting task. Austria has always made an important contribution in this institution. We're doing our best. You chose us there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23672	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of this report III-80 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bösch, ladies and gentlemen, on a government template that allows for a referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[21:10:46]] 6. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (405 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz (421 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 416/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on adaptation of study aid to inflation (422) 8. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 417/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on additional tolerable semester for study aid recipients (423 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 423/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on the increase in age limits for scholarship recipients (424 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on amendment 120/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues with regard to the renewal of the High School and High School Law 1998 (425 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment No 457/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues on the abolition of access restrictions for Austrian students (426 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23794	We now come to points 6 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. That is what we are getting to the debate. First of all, Mr Grünewald. 50 minutes – apologies, so all are bright -, 5 minutes desired speaking time. [[Intervocational calls]] You could not wish for 50 minutes, deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23830	Madam President. Thank you very much for the goodwill of 50 minutes. High house! Mr. Federal Minister! It is not all gold that shines, but I do trust to say that it is not all so abjectly bad that is being presented to us, for example a lot in the promotion of studies. Of course, it must be said in advance that the last adjustment in the value of the study grants took place in 1999 and to this day a loss of value of 16.9 is easier to say: of 17 percent, where students – and I say quite consciously – and their parents are very much under pressure due to rental costs, food price increases and energy costs. And when we talk about students, we must never forget that many are supported by their parents. Mr Federal Minister, if you imagine what this means for a family, including the middle class, if two children do not study at the place of residence, you can easily calculate: From 800 to 900 € a young person can live hard in a foreign city with an apartment. It's not that easy. That's why a signal is absolutely important here. § 1 of the Studienförderungsgesetz (Study Promotion Law) mentions, as it were, the objective of this law. And the state goal, if you want to, is to enable all students to study full-time. That's where you'll admit, we're miles away. More than 60 percent of students work side by side, and not just because they need it as a professional experience – but rather because they cannot afford living costs during their studies. And that accelerates how you can calculate – your predecessor did not want to understand it – a study not if 60 percent have to work side by side, not just two hours of babysitting in the evening. The government always says we should be an international model, we should be competitive. The words “Excellence” and “Elite” are constantly spiritual. But if we look at where we should invest, if we are to be competitive, powerful, competitive, and also keep something of education – there are other criteria why education is important – then we must say that the percentage of study aid beneficiaries in Austria, if I am quite friendly, does not correspond to the international standard of model nations, depending on the method of calculation. United Kingdom: over 50 percent; EU average: about 40 percent; Scandinavian countries: over 60 percent. But I admit that the highest grants and also the average scholarships are in some cases better than in other nations. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Eben!]] You have to say that fairly. But it's not all so great. If you were to make the valorization that you rejected – our request was rejected – you would have to pay 17 percent less. You said your law brings 12 percent profit to the students, but only those who do not receive any family allowance and no support from the parents. If the latter is the case, the increase in net profit for students is reduced to about 6.5 percent. So you should stay there a little fair. Another thing: It's not about alms to finance the disco visit to students, as I've heard from a better known ÖVPler who said the students can't be bad, because every time I go to a restaurant, I don't find a parking lot because there are the cars of the students. That was the argument why he thinks they're fine and you don't have to do anything. - That's terrifying. But so to speak, the other method, which recently was very much in venge, to think that you're bringing three, four show researchers to Austria, paying them like midstorms in an international football club, and then you'd be Elite, that's too little to pay for Legionary Research, but you have to invest in the youth. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] And I think we can afford it. GDP is rising. If you pass on these profits, the wealth of the state, the wealth of profit speculation and whatever fairness, we can afford to promote young people in such a way that more study – and it should be more – and study under better conditions and do not have to worry about losing so much by work that your studies go unnecessarily long. So, in total, we will vote in third reading. To provide the mentoring programme, namely for € 6 per hour ten to fourteen-year-olds, which should be given better on-site, in school, by those – through support teachers – who know the curriculum and the goal of teaching: I'd be hard on myself. Maybe I'm too stupid in some things, or I've forgotten too much. I might be able to give further help in geography and in German, with additions I would already have difficulty. We should be careful if we want to achieve, as it were, a cast farmer's programme, which brings €6, and then says, aid, aid, which does not result from a pension claim, which does not result in a working relationship, as is the case in a very short-term amendment request. It's a bit embarrassing, actually. But still a yes of the Greens in third reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23881	Next come Mrs. Dr. Brinek. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23902	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Grünewald, in particular! With what we say today, there's already a lot of gold in there. And I am already pleased that after signals from all political groups, there will be an agreement here. There's a lot of gold in there. I'll bring it back to mind. Some may no longer be aware of this from the Committee. The provocation by means of requests from Mr Green Forest and others has been initiated before we knew what the innovation will look like. So we've actually caught this up for a long time and thus achieved a better creation, which can be summarized as follows: 50 percent more students and 100 percent more money when you look at the timeline 2000 to 2008. That can be seen. I say it in absolute terms: 105 million were 2000 and 205 million for study funding are now. I would like to thank you for the preliminary work that has been done in the Minister's House and for your efforts to take into account almost all the wishes of the ÖH and the students. What happened? – Thanks to the use of my coalition colleague, the parents' income limit was once again considered, and it was increased, so that another 4,000 to 5,000 members could benefit from a study promotion or receive back the study contributions. We took particular account of students with child after the 12 percent increase. There are 60 € per child on a monthly basis plus tolerance semesters for a given age group, which must be expected to result in delays due to family obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the Bologna system – the Bachelor, Master, PhD are separate studies – there are therefore more tolerable semesters; at the same time as an amendment I am going to make, a clarification that we do not want this to be a call not to take the Bachelor's degree seriously as my own, and to join it again in study sections. Overall, I think it is an extension of funds in many areas. It is a consideration of specific groups concerned. Mr Greenewald, I have taken this up. Everyone can study it, and we want it to be a lot and many can. They come with all the support measures by public authorities in about the net income of a trader with 30 hours of working time. And that's kind of helpful to a student's life. I make my promise and put in place the amendment tabled by Mr Broukal and Mr Brinek, who are essentially concerned with having clarity in the Bologna structure, correctly expressing the hourly value in consideration of the measurement, and making a clarification on the mentoring so that there is no unnecessary consideration of the consequences of labour law. As far as I know, Madam President, you already have the request. So I don't have to read it any more. Ladies and gentlemen, the funding of studies takes into account the needs of the students. It is not an automatic valorization, because it would concern us, even in the after-salesing and adjustment process, in the development of measures that might result from regular reports on the social situation. I believe that politics should retain this scope for design and continue the path we have now taken, for the benefit of students, teachers, researchers and the whole Republic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e23957	Mrs. Dr. Brinek, you have explained your amendment in the key points, and I leave it because of the extent according to § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24170	The next item is the speech by Mr Graf. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24191	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In due time: We support everything that is justified in the dissemination of study funding, student or student funding or study aid, and in the end is still somehow concerned with a concept of performance. Therefore, on the subject, we will carry this novel, of course. It also builds on a system that was relatively good and was largely modo, as far as I can remember, always taken unanimously. We will not vote in separate vote, as we have already announced in the Committee, in spite of these small improvements for several reasons, on the point of mentoring or redemption of Mr Bundeskanzler's promise to bring up supplementary hours in such a way that study contributions can at the end of the day. I recognise that you have tried to take this into account by a full formal delegation, i.e. to postpone it on the legal basis, where no key points are identified at all, to distance itself from it and to improve it now with the amendment. But in the core, I mean, this is not the promise of the Federal Chancellor, but it is only a small part. It's still the way the question is. And despite all this, one had already tried to win something positive and yet agree to it, there would not have been your initiative, Mr. Federal Minister, with half-half of the study contributions in between, where you have to see the whole thing as a whole. We believe that these are also the wrong approaches. I understand to a certain extent the mental reservation of the Federal Minister, who is supposed to implement something that the Federal Chancellor has promised, and not him, which was in fact a hip. There's always a hard time. What I now increasingly like now is that a certain policy of announcement is being pursued in the field of students, which I can no longer understand. There will soon be no legal certainty at all. What's the matter now? Now we want to promote the working students. Yes, in principle yes, but not so, as you mean, ultimately the financing of the university, as you yourself say, a fall in cost at all. And I remember that it is about refunding half the tuition fees for the students who work. That's your proposal. He sounds very good as a headline, but the devil is just in detail. What do we do with those who are liberated and still work? Do they have any claims or not? How does that look? How is this promoted? What do the universities do if they do not receive the budget if such a thing is implemented? How is this going to happen? Above all – and now I come to my topic, which I want to deal with these few minutes I still have: What does it use if I make a half study fees or study fees for the students who work, if I keep thousands of Austrian students away from studying through access restrictions? In fact, this is unobservable when you act like that. Mr Broukal has told me in the committee that we have to deal with this much more and we should now, as opposition or as a liberal, propose what this is like, and I always take the example of the physicians, because it is most plastically possible here. I've looked at the numbers a little bit more closely now and I'm excited how you're going to react. In 2006/2007: First semester Austrians, who could not study what they wanted, compared to the number before the ECJ judgment, before the quota introduction, 65 percent fewer Austrian students, thus nearly two thirds fewer students at medical universities than three years ago. If you make the comparison number 2004/2005: also two thirds. What does that mean in numbers? – 2 227 Austrian maturants who wanted to study medicine – and these were not those who would have been more than before before they had made this artificial degradation – can not study medicine in Austria, although they have Matura – as an admission requirement, as I mean, sufficient – although they were interested and although they wanted to register but were ultimately stopped. 2 227 it is with today's date! These are the published figures of the Ministry of Science. I say that the numbers of each university do not correspond to the figures published at the university and the Ministry of Science. But it's the order of magnitude about the same. What annoys me is that, despite multiple criticisms, it has not been possible to agree on the absolute figures, which is the matter, but one then demands of the opposition in the discussion that we should, with figures, explain it all. Mr Broukal, you said that €8 000 costs about a study place at the medical universities. They also depend on estimates, because the medical universities do not know to this day what a single study site costs. Let's take this number! 2 227 Austrian students have been held since the quota regime was introduced compared to the year before the quota arrangement, and there were no more than the year before and the year before. There were always about 3,200 students, ranging from 3,000 to 3,200, who can no longer study today. Take the number here, then it is about €17 million that the universities have saved themselves. That's a wrong number. Let us now calculate it the other way around, we count 8,000 times 2 227, which one has taken from studying, per semester. [[Abg. Broukal: 17 per semester, 34 million!]] What did you do with it? – Sometime you have to confess color as a university! One cannot simply follow the eternal call of those who are already active in the market who want to keep their competition for the future out of the body, who then say: We measure it to the needs of the future that we will have! And this is seen as little as possible, not realizing that we still have too few doctors in the hospitals in large areas, that there are still physicians there who have to work hundreds and more hours of weeks. I don't want to be operated on by such doctors. Or by such anaesthesiologist, I do not want to be put into “healthful sleep” for an operation, even on Saturday, when he has already worked the hundredth hour. But all this shouldn't be true! I always hear that we are one of the richest countries on earth. And yet we can't afford places for 2 227 Austrians in three years? – This is a testimonie to poverty for your policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's nothing to do with the quota. You will not get rid of this issue because I will repeatedly address this issue. Free access to higher education is what we have fought for over 30 years. The Socialists or the Social Democratic Party have jumped on this move. But now she's jumped off again. But we will – and I am convinced of this – climb the right train together again. It cannot be assumed that today we have a two-class system in the field of education, namely that those who can afford to study at the University of Budapest or at other universities, and those who cannot afford to do so, for example, some worker's child, are being stopped from studying, with dubious reasons, and that money is saved in return on the part of the University. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since it is of no use at all, if you say that the students of the work – how this should be implemented – I do not know, because this is more than difficult – you only need to pay more than half the study contribution if you do not allow 2 227 students to study at three universities in that country at all. In view of this, they have nothing to do with the half-student's fee. They might like to go to work to study. No, they can't afford that because most of them cannot afford to study abroad. – This is not a good social policy for the students! That is where we need to make changes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that this issue will certainly continue to concern us in the next few years. You must never go to the glue on everything you're knitting up here at the end of the day, to those who want to break the market and keep one from studying, just like you did. I therefore call on you to think more about not basking: If it is a little more, can we provide 30 students in the quota more in the future or not?- Oh, my God! I do not want to talk about the Greens, because they have already confirmed themselves as a quota party on this point. There is currently only one party in this House that is fighting for free access to higher education. I ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to take your own picture and to believe in these cases that you do not believe the rectors and not those who are in the system, and not the doctors, but rather the doctors, take courage, take a critical look at the numbers and check whether Austria cannot afford to do a few thousand students more a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24252	Next, Mr Broukal. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24273	It is more than 3 minutes allocated than “desirable” speaking time. . You apologise, Mr Graf, I will only be able to deal with you very in a cursory manner, although I would also like to know the answer to many of your questions. Only: You always do a trick as far as the Medical University is concerned, which I have already told you. They always say that once hundreds, if not thousands of students are left in their studies, they always forget to say that they were tested to two thirds by the end of the first study. The difference now is that you're making a test right at the beginning. There are good reasons to say: Let's leave more students at the university!, but if you require that actually three times as many students as today are brought through the entire medical study, then you have to tell me where you want to take the billions of euros for the new universities, for the new hospitals and for the thousands of doctors in education. We can really end this argument. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] If you say, This is worth it!, then I would remind you that the two parties that have decided the restrictions on access to medicine... – The three parties, and these were the ÖVP, the BZÖ and the five representatives of the FPÖ. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A mistake!]] Yes, excuse me, you have to deal with your party! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We already broke up! But you haven't made it up yet!]] Introduced it! And the month when the coalition negotiations with the ÖVP rested and I asked you in vain whether you would be willing to abolish the tuition fees together with us and the Greens, for which you were not prepared, I unfortunately failed to ask you whether you would also be willing to abolish the restrictions on access in all the objects with us. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes!]] Today, you tell me you said yes. If you had told me, maybe we would have done it, but not for medicine, because we don't know where to build three new universities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But we don't need them!]] All that is to be said about the Studienförderungsgesetz has already been said. I thank you for also recognizing from the opposition parties that this is all right. The high school was also satisfied with this. It can always be a little more, it is balanced with hangings and stranglings of inflation. There are really groups that are served well and adequately, such as students with several children, older students, and students with disabilities now have more time, who have tolerability semesters. That's all right. Next point: Part-time studies. – I have read this with interest, Mr Federal Minister, but that raises the question: Do we really want the universities to have less revenue now? They do no less than they do, because they now also have these half-time students, only they unjustly cash out of those, as we have said for years, a study fee that does not correspond to the performance. In other words, the work of the university is not reduced, but the effort of the university is not reduced. So why? You have to replace that. I think so. The argument always comes: Excellence instead of quota! or, as the Secretary-General of the Federal Chamber of Commerce says: Brain instead of quota! Mr. Federal Minister Hahn, dear Gio, please let your people give you the Federal Equality Act 1993 and read it out. Because inside it says that you are obliged to enforce at least a 40 percent female rate in the ministry and universities below. A quota is required, and the only freedom you have is to exceed it, not to interrupt it. And with the professors, fifteen years after this law, we hold a miserable 15 percent. Now someone should tell me there are no excellent women!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24364	Next come Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24385	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I shall try, in the few minutes available to me, to address some of the points on the agenda. I would like to start by referring to the government's proposal for a debate. In this amendment to the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz (Study Promotion Act), the rules envisaged should be assessed positively: Yes, considering students with children is important! Yes, it is important to consider the Bologna system! All of this has been incorporated into this template. The fact is that a junkimation with a SPÖ proposal has taken place some kind of refund of the study contribution. I have already criticized this in committee. This also led to a request for a separate vote on paragraph 29. You too, Madam President, now have a request or request for a separate vote on this point, for the reason that this paragraph is intended to give students the opportunity, with 60 hours of mentoring activity per semester, to prepare their study contributions of approximately €380 per semester. This means an hourly wage of approximately €6.30, which may not be serious. It is hoped that a student will use his 60 hours to make progress at this time either in his studies or in his post-graduate studies, so that he can earn much more in order to be able to pay his study contribution. It is also true that not all students will be able or will not be able to complete all the studies in order to be able to complete such comprehensive introduction hours per semester – 60 hours are not a crack. That is to say, there has obviously been an unbridled SPÖ proposal. And we will certainly not support this. Next point: Proposal for adaptation of study aid to inflation. – Yes, the BZÖ will agree to this request because it is clear that there is a significant increase in costs for students and that the application text is also geared towards the future, but this is only possible if you read it very carefully. That is why we have no problem with this request from the BZÖ. As regards the application concerning additional tolerability semester for study aid recipients, I would like to note that in this request by the Greens, a requirement of proof for students, namely a requirement of proof for professional activity, for the scope of professional activity, has been given to me. Then: If it is already possible for a student to refer to the study allowance during the study period if he completes the study section at the minimum time plus a tolerance semester, and if now this tolerance semester is to be extended to two, then one must say: The taxpayers come up for this, and there must therefore also be an account for it! That means to prevent abuse here, so that not every student comes in and says: I work so much, so I need so long for my studies!, a proof of professional activity must be provided. Then we could also support this request. I have to say to the request concerning the increase in age limits for scholarship recipients: In the course of the debate in the Committee, it has been found that there should be no increase, but that there should be no abolition of age limits for scholarship recipients at all. In this proposal, the BZÖ cannot go along with it, as it is not reasonable for the company to satisfy and finance any hobby requests from students after 35 years of age. I would like to say to the FPÖ's request for an amendment to the 1998 High School and High School Law: This proposal is very positive, and it is supported by us. I liked the introduction text very much, as it says, among other things: The abolition of compulsory membership at the Austrian high school. This is a requirement that we can sign immediately. The need for an OH representative should also not be given, according to the text of the application. That's the way it is! We from BZÖ are even going one step further, we say: The concept of the ÖH, as it is currently present, is obsolete. We call for a study mentor to be chosen from the field of university professors in the individual faculties. That means we want a direct representative of the professorship for students. The FPÖ's application text in this context, namely the introduction of direct democratic electoral modes for these representative bodies, is to be fully supported. It should be noted that the restrictions on access are: This is an old discussion that we are constantly conducting. However, I should like to make a correction to Mr Graf's statement. You have said, Mr Graf, that I do not know if you have promised, a year of study per medical student will cost an average of €8,000. This, of course, only applies to a normal study. The cost of a medical study is estimated at up to €42 000 per year and students. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I don't know the estimates! That is why I have taken the number mentioned by Mr Broukal.]] Even if you would vary slightly, there is a huge difference between €8 000 and €42 000! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] – Mr Commissioner, you already had the opportunity to speak here. Then let me speak again! You always say you're not for access restrictions. But you never mention that there are European legislation, so to speak, a framework in which we must move. In this context, Austria has currently had a fairly good position in relation to the quota system. Of course, this is to be kept because if it were not given, then – and you know exactly what would happen then – the only fair European path would be a fifty-fifty solution. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Nothing at all! Then there would be a few thousand more students!]] And then look at that! Now we have 75 percent of students in the medical-university field from Austria. I believe that this is an advantage to be kept. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to mention one point briefly, even if I have already exceeded my speaking time, because that is an important point. The question was asked: Where do we build universities? I mean medical universities. In this context, we have submitted a request to the Scientific Committee for the establishment of a MedUni Linz. The establishment of a MedUni Linz is an important concern that we want to know here in Parliament. Upper Austria and Salzburg are the only medical care region in Austria, which does not have an independent public university in the medical field. There is a normal clinic, an accident hospital, women's medical clinics and the like, but there is no medical university there. There has been a cross-party shoulder closure in Upper Austria in this regard. The idea has come from the BZÖ and the FPÖ. I have no idea why the FPÖ here in Parliament so refuses to agree to the proposal or the address supported by BZÖ, FPÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP in the Upper Austrian Landtag, finally creating a Medical University for Upper Austrian Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24449	It has now informed Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Hahn of his speech. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24470	Madam President. High house! First of all, thank you very much for the very broad support for the core of what you will decide in the next few minutes, namely the second stage of the increase and qualitative expansion of scholarships. We have set ourselves the goal of the Government Convention to add to the €180 million per year of scholarships and study grants already invested, as well as the replacement of study contributions €25 million, in two stages. One thing we did last spring, namely the linear increase by 12 percent. This has consumed about two thirds of these 25 million. Then the stated aim was to invest around €8 million in a qualitative expansion and dissemination of scholarships, so that we can invest €25 million in total – a sum that will be used in the full range in 2009, so that we will reach over €200 million. Let me briefly summarize the essential points and contents of this qualitative increase! First of all, there is a social policy motive, particularly in response to the current report on the social situation of students, but also a number of comments and considerations from the high school. That is also the reason why, in general, the high schooling is satisfied with this result. Josef Broukalhat said, also Gertrude Brinek: Of course, it can still be a little more. But it is a pleasure to understand that within the framework of what is available, it is actually a reasonable division. So we have now taken additional students with more children into consideration. We've done something for disabled students. We have raised and unified the limit of merit, because there were, for me, different limits, regardless of whether a student was self-employed or unself-employed, for reasons that I did not understand. We have both merged and increased. And we have also raised the income limits of the parents. On this occasion, a comment on a point raised here by some speakers. I can say: There is an apparent topicality of this evening, triggered by a “curier” article. I therefore say “seemly” because I have said several times in the last half year that I can very well imagine halving the study contributions for work students. But these are things that still need to be discussed very intensively with the University Conference. But this is a topic that has accompanied us for many years. I say again: We must deal with this issue because it must be a declared goal of all of us. I will place a heavy emphasis on the fact that, in the context of the Bologna process and general social development, we are dramatically increasing the range of training institutions and training opportunities at universities in the next performance agreement period, which I say is quite consciously so. We currently stand at about 220 000 students at universities with a share of about 1 percent of students who, as it were, continue to attend the university. At the technical colleges, where we have 30 000 students, there is already a specific focus in the current development plan III on continuing training, with the corresponding consequence that about a third of the students at the technical universities are already doing this in the context of vocational training. In this respect, we must, of course, make “kilometers” at the universities in Vienna. The conditions need to be created in a wide variety of ways. In my view, one of these measures should certainly be the possibility that those who do not take full advantage of the achievements of universities will not pay the full amount of the study contributions. I do not doubt that the control effects will be preserved. The cover contributions of the universities are changing, but the range of services is changing. – This is only for this and as clarification. On a second essential point only very briefly, it has not been addressed today: With the current development in scholarships, we also make a serious contribution to the mobility of students, because it will now be possible for you to take it with you from the first semester, if there are claims in the country for a scholarship, if you are studying abroad. Third point, taking into account the Bologna process: Facilitating the transition from Bachelor to Master, raising age limits, standardising study success to ECTS points, thus making accountability easier, and ultimately facilitating a change of study, both in terms of content and, where appropriate, the place. Finally, I should like to point out that we have been able to increase the share from 4 per cent to 5 per cent in the performance grants and that, I believe, a significant signal could be sent. Summa summarum, ladies and gentlemen: Compared to 2000, this measure will increase the number of scholarships from 34 000 to over 50 000 – a 50 percent increase – and the funds allocated will increase from € 105 million to € 205 million in 2009 at the time, which is practically a doubling. I think that is something that can be seen in the truest sense of the word and will certainly help to improve for the students in Austria – in all the difficulties you have, of course, occasionally. It is necessary for some to earn besides. However, I would also like to point out – please read in the Social Report – that, especially for those who earn something by the side of the profession, and that is 57 percent, a very important moment for this is also the motive for generating experiences on the labour market and improving job opportunities. The aim is not only to acquire money, but also to have an additional effect. In my view, as I have said, this measure has made a significant contribution to this country's students in economic terms, with over €200 million in peacock. I think that can be seen, so I am delighted and thank you again for your broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24540	Next, Mrs. Dr. Karl will speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24561	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to speak to Mr Graf. You mentioned numbers here... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Thank you!]] - Please, I'm very happy to do it. You have mentioned numbers here about how much the medical universities are saving by the fact that fewer students are starting to study medicine today. That is why these figures are not voting – and this has also been mentioned by Mr Broukal – because, although more students once started their studies, fewer students have completed their studies. That is, they have quit their studies, most of them after a short period of time. [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... in the first year!]] One more point is to be taken into consideration. The duration of the study was much longer than today because there were longer waiting times. However, the great savings that are supposed to have been made are, in general, not recognizable to me. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] It has been discussed several times and has also been addressed by the Federal Minister that we have a lot of students who are employed. There are around 60 percent of students in employment. This is a large number, and I think we have to face the challenge of making our studies and work more compatible. This is done on the one hand by the current amendment to the Studienförderungsgesetz, because, as has already been mentioned, the limit of the commitment for students is raised. But – and that is why I also welcome the proposal to introduce part-time studies – we also need to take into account the fact that there are more working students. We must allow for part-time studies, and I am glad that the Minister of State sees reality and responds to this reality. We can be grateful for this and above all the students to him. Part-time study is simply an answer to reality and does not mean that we want to get rid of the proven system of tuition fees. The study fees have proven themselves, but it is necessary that we now have half the time for part-time students... [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: For the Protocol: I would like to object immediately! You haven't proved yourself!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Oh, yes!]] Please, they've proved themselves! I can also give you concrete figures. In the winter semester of 2006, there is a historic peak with 224 119 students, which is a 15 percent increase since the winter semester 2001. I can also tell you the development at the beginning of the study: This is also a record value that we have achieved, namely 34 112 students in the winter semester 2005. We also have a strong increase in graduates; I could also mention numbers here, but unfortunately my speaking time has already exceeded. I therefore advocate that we remain in the proven system of study grants, but that we make a modification in that we halve them for part-time students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24650	Next, Mr. Dr. I want to speak on behalf of the Group of 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24671	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, after nine years, this Studienförderungsgesetz, the increase in study funding, is a positive thing. No, it was high time, and we agree. But the thing is not as great as you now declare it. Mr Broukal said very well in committee: At least it's not a deterioration. This reminds me a little of the Catholic “you must be satisfied. ” But, honestly, we are not quite satisfied – Mr Grünewald has already carried it out, my colleague, Treasure, will explain it again – because the costs are simply not paid off, which occurred after nine years. You're always shaking your head, but the sheer is breaking up. There's something more to it: If a new increase is not expected over the next five years, then we – we continue to have inflation – are back where we were. That is, as long as there is no index adjustment, that – you will hear it from my colleague, treasure anyway – continues to be a shear that separates. [[Abg. Broukal: We are now 3 percent ahead of inflation!]] There are then students who don't have to pay a study fee because parents pay it or because they have enough financial resources and don't have to go to work, and there are those who can still study under abductions and accept jobs. They just need longer! That is why I do not understand why there can be no extension of the duration of the funding. On the one hand, people are getting older and older, even when retirement is moving ahead, and at the same time the substance areas are becoming more complex, but people should no longer be allowed to study. So if someone has to work along the way, he should be allowed to study longer. - That's one. The second is – and this, Mr Broukal, has really been recognized by the ÖH, by the Chamber of Workers, by the ÖGB, by all those who have written opinions, as a deficit – that the benefits grants have been so greatly increased in relation to social security schemes. It is strange that you have this false assumption that this can benefit all. Because the Social Report, which you are quoting, Mr Minister, clearly states that students with a migrant background or those who are working have worse starting conditions, study longer and so on. These would need this, at least from a social democratic point of view, rather than those who can study full-time, which can concentrate and then provide services – and are rewarded for that. I give them that they are rewarded, but not so to speak, at the expense of those who really need it. [[Abg. Broukal: I just think you can't play that against each other!]] No, you can't play that against each other, but it always depends on the conditions. If a quarter of the increase goes into performance, this is not really a social democratic approach. [[Abg. Broukal: It has been increased by 25 million and 1 million of them...!]] I really wonder – and I have already asked in committee: Is it true that this has become your fundamental view? Or have you not been won over to the public? [[Abg. Broukal: The increase is 25 million, of which 1 million is the power component!]] That's what you didn't give me an answer, I'm still waiting for the answer. [[Abg. Broukal: But if you wait for the SPÖ to say we're against the performance, then you're wrong!]] – No, no, I did not say that, but it is always a question of proportionality. [[Abg. Broukal: This is your view! We are also of the opinion...!]] – Now the Lamperl shines, and I have promised to talk shorter. [[Abg. Broukal: 1 million of 25 million! 4 percent!]] Overall, I can only say it's like in football, if you could only get up with 2 : 0, the team with 1 : 0 comes home and the Masseur Broukal says: At least we didn't lose. I can only say: That's right! We leave the sect in the fridge this time, maybe next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24787	Mrs Stadlbauer's next speech. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24809	Madam President. Minister! High house! This law is a good law with a social manuscript. It does not change anything either if Mr Zinggl is standing here and is still trying to draw any arguments from the sleeve. It is a good law, and a social manuscript also has this law, among other things, because we, the SPÖ, have succeeded in negotiating further improvements with the coalition partner, for example, the fact that some 4,000 to 5,000 students now receive additional aid and no longer have to pay tuition fees. Another example is the extension of the tolerance semester. By the way, I would like to stress that Mr Brinek, too, pointed out that it was the SPÖ's merit; this is a praise to mention. I would also like to emphasize this point because he has succeeded in improving the negotiations with the EIA. Mr Zinggl, it is simply not true that Josef Broukalgeschass, at least it is not a deterioration. He has always said that it is a fundamental improvement, and above all it is the credo of us that we never want to wait seven years for another increase, but want to do so faster. [[Calls to the Greens.]] The essence of a coalition, however, is that not all claims can be implemented one by one; The compromises are a result. In other words, there would have been a number of proposals that have been made in cooperation with the student representation. I would also like to express my express thanks for this cooperation. At least for my group, I can say that cooperation with our students from VSstÖ was very good and constructive. I hope we continue to work on this basis. If such cases of possible inequalities have been identified, for example in the case of different study plans or in the case of differences in the Tolerance semesters – should give, then the law already provides for this to be taken into account individually and so on. I also think that the law is not a rigid construction, but that it is a ongoing process. We must and we will take a very close look at the administrative practice. If there is an increase in hardness, we must take this into account in the next novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24866	Now comes Mr Mag. Houses to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24887	Madam President. Mr. Minister! The wish for a speaking time of 2 minutes was an order from above. – Martin Graf has already given a very dedicated speech and is committed to free university access. I notice that we are really the only party here fighting this two-class society. As a teacher, I also know that there are maturants who would like to study medicine in Austria, in Innsbruck, but do not come to the train. If they do not have the financial support of their parents in order to be able to start studying abroad, they are excluded from their wish study. Those who don't have the money can't start. This has led us to the money, and I personally wonder why there is no more committed action in Brussels. Now we should not have a debate on what such a medical study site costs – between 16 000 and perhaps 40 000 € per year per student – but if one calculates it, for example, with the number of German students who are with us, then it would be unlikely to get a lot of fresh money through a European financial compensation. I wonder why they do not make themselves strong in Brussels and try to get a financial balance away because the quota system itself would not be EU-compliant, but you have achieved this as almost the only success. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl]] Why don't we keep fighting? – Let’s see that we bring additional, fresh money to Austria, that we can create new places to study and thus simply offer more places for our students! I miss any approach at all, but that must be possible. I also asked in another case and received an answer from Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein about a request. It was the case that a foreign employee, an Englishman, had come to Tyrol, had been registered there for a day, was then logged out, and then in Austria, although only one day had been registered, the unemployment insurance covered. In response to my question, the Minister has given me the answer that this money, which we are paying out on unemployment insurance, will not be replaced, but that there is now negotiations. If negotiations are possible, why not, for example, also at the places of study? I therefore miss any commitment in this direction. We have to fight to bring in these costs, for example, €30 000 per German student, to find more places for our excluded Austrian students. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24939	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hakl. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e24960	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hauser! The problem you have with the medical students, for example, is that this is a little bit of a milkmaid bill. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We have no problem! Those who have not listened have a problem!]] [[Further calls.]] It would be excellent if there were ten times as many medical students in Austria to study. What you're forgetting is that the training as a doctor and a doctor is far from complete. In research – which these students also need to learn, as a result also as a researcher, – it is necessary to see many cases of patients and to be able to complete the training at hospitals in an appropriate quality. It is already true today that very many, especially medical, research projects in Austria cannot be carried out because the number of individual cases of disease in the relatively small hospitals of Austria – I am not talking about the AKH now, for example, I am talking about Innsbruck – is not given. As a result, in many larger cities, where the researchers can make a project at several clinics at the same time, large teams collect points, each other often write the works, which in turn has the result that in Austria we have disproportionately many German professors with more formal research points than the Austrians have at the universities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true...!]] I believe that for this reason it is not just about the study itself and that you have to think about it. In today's very good package I like most that it will be possible for the first time to get a scholarship abroad from the first semester. You have just said, Mr Hauser, it is important – not only to start studying somewhere else – to have seen, learned and studied something abroad. With the study contributions at our level – if you still work abroad, what you can do, as well as in Austria – it is also possible for a student to complete his studies without the support of his parents. That's what several of us have done here, so many young people will be able to do and do today. That is why I find this point very important, and also that there is now an extension of the service grants. Because at the university, performance may also be worthwhile!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25014	Now comes Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25035	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In order for you, Mr Broukal, not to worry about me as much as you do in the committee, I will say straight ahead... [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But he was very excited, I'm sorry. I wanted to say that the novelle includes some improvements or will bring some improvements for students. Yeah, good. [[Abg. Broukal: And now the big but!]] -Yes, I'm sorry. I'm sorry! No matter how you turn it and turn it: There are still a few facts that I have to mention. Fact number one is that students whose parents have a low, lowest income will benefit less from this novel than children of middle-income parents. Even if you all say again and again that the ÖH would have found this draft so great, the ÖH has criticized this fact; also the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB. The ÖH has done this on different levels – federal government, universities et cetera. Fact two: The largest share of the budget increase is made in the benefit grants which are not socially effective. [[Abg. May. Hakl: The performance aspect is also particularly important!]] Mr Zinggl has explained this in detail, which is why I am not doing this again. Fact three is that, despite a good package for students with disabilities, you have forgotten the students with mental diseases again. And this, although the Social Report and numerous studies have pointed out this deficit. Now it's going to be a little dry, I'm sorry, but I think the valorization is a very central point. That is why I need to briefly explain the basic guidelines for calculating the study aid. [[Abg. Broukal: Please!]] It always starts with: What is the income of parents? And then we see how many people in the household have to live by this income. Accordingly, the reasonable maintenance performance of the parents is determined for the studying child – reasonable maintenance performance. As a unit, we then have the maximum grant; this minus the reasonable maintenance benefit is then, in about, shortenedly, the disbursed funding of studies. I hope this is clear now. But now there is the following problem: The income of parents continues to increase annually, we say, inflation-adapted by the outcome of wage negotiations. Thus, the family does not get any richer, but the student has a massive financial problem because this calculation system is gradually reducing his study aid. The only way to prevent this separation is to include the adjustment of inflation in the Studienförderungsgesetz. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] That is why we have also asked for an annual evaluation of the basis for the maintenance, allowances and the maximum study aid. Mr Broukal has explained to me in our intensive debate in the Committee that this innovation is already in place, but, Mr Broukal, I have looked at it 117 000 times: Their own novelle, § 31, there is no increase in the basis of the calculation for the lower income group. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: They're getting a maximum scholarship anyway!]] There is no increase in the base for the second income group, but only in the middle. [[Abg. Broukal: The others get the highest scholarship!]] Now I'll show you! It is about maintenance performance, the reasonable maintenance performance. [[Abg. Broukal: The scholarship height is decisive!]] No, it's about maintenance! I'd like to explain it to you later. Now I've tried so intensely, but obviously that's not enough, okay. Students from socially disadvantaged families are not the same as students from families who deserve more. That's just so, we'd like to go through it again in detail. Ladies and gentlemen! The only way out would be to increase the maximum study aid, an automatic annual valorisation. Mr Broukal! I have to repeat it now: I hope that the many constructive suggestions that you have given me will really be brought into the next novel. You always say you want to take our proposals into account, you invite us to talk, but nothing happens. I hope that the next novelle in our mind will really be one that I can also agree with with with full heart.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25164	Next, Mr Rada. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25185	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The discussion on the promotion of studies is very intense, and I am glad that this government has succeeded in deciding or proposing this funding as it is on the table. We hope that it will be decided today. All those who studied themselves years ago know: Grants were never sufficient, were never high enough, were never fair, were dependent on different income relationships of the parents, their tax advantage, whatever – I don't want to list it anymore – depended on. It has succeeded in proposing a study programme with which one can live as a student, with all the other elements and possibilities that have been added, such as mobility. What is very important to me in today's discussion, Mr. Dr. Graf, is that Austrian students should have free access to universities. We can calculate statistically how we want to. Austria is located in a common world, together with other countries in the EU. I fully share the view of the new rector of the University of Soil Culture, who says that she does not want access restrictions either. But she also wants everyone who wants to study to be able to study what he wants, what he is suitable for what he is able to do. Then we would spare ourselves so much discussion, why all the medicine wants to study and should, but there would simply be a clear selection. Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. We have spent many hours discussing other areas for which you support access restrictions. In all areas of the school, from primary to secondary, secondary, there should be admission examinations everywhere. [[Abg. Broukal: Really? Listen! Listen!]] There you were always the one who was against free access, and now suddenly where we have a generally acceptable solution, you want another.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25233	Next, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25255	Madam President. Minister! High house! First of all, a word on Mr Broukal's comments. – You have said that you would like to abolish the tuition fees. Mr Broukal! A year ago, we made this very request for freedom. There was a nameable vote, and you too, Mr Broukal, did not vote in favour of the abolition of tuition fees. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Exactly!]] In the same period, the Greens also submitted a similar request for the abolition of the tuition fees, which was also voted on by name, and you voted against them too. Sage So you're not always here from this speaker's desk, the others are to blame for the tuition fees still exist. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Broukal: In the months before the coalition formation, in which the abolition would have been possible, you have rejected it!]] To colleague Karl: You're supposed to have real hell-seeking skills, because you're saying here: Since there have been restrictions on access to medicine, there have been much shorter study periods. I wonder how you want to know. There have been restrictions on access for two years! So, don't be angry, you can't read anything out at all. So this statistical argument has already been condemned from the outset to failure. The ECJ judgment came in July 2005. In the first year after that, there were no restrictions on access, because at that time the Austrian students were still admitted before the Germans arrived. That is to say, the restrictions on access are in reality only for a year and a half. And after a year and a half, you just can't make this statement. If you have statistics that say that, then the statistics that have been read out about from the coffee sauce, but in no way can be found with any serious numbers. By the way, it is a shame that there are young people in Austria – not about studying, as Mr Karl said, but about young people who want to take a training course – who want to choose to study but who are not. It's not about studying, it's about people, people who still have their future ahead, and they leave you outside. They have no chance unless they have rich parents who can finance them from a private university in Hungary, where Slovakia can finance by about €6,000 to €7 000 a month. Only then can they study that! In Austria they are left out very hard, and that must not be so. That's a shame for this country, it's a shame to that state! A second one, you said that was not true, namely: Now there are no more waiting times. – Take a look at the dental university! Of course, there are still waiting times for the students, unlike the private universities, there they do not exist. However, they assume that domestics have to go abroad, that in Hungary, Slovakia private universities are filled with Austrian students. You're buying it! There's a lot of money going out there. We could use this very well in our own country. We could also use and train young people here in our own country. I'll tell you: If Austria is such a rich country, as you always suggest, then we can also afford to have everyone study here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One more word to colleagues, Broukal. You said: In the past, the young people were tested during medical studies, now this exam is in the beginning. – That's only conditionally correct. This entry-level examination, you know very well, really has nothing to do with medicine, and that is why it is just a reading procedure that has not even been tailored to Austrian students. This was simply taken over by the Germans, who also, which show the statistics, cut off much, much better than the Austrian school graduates. That alone is the first mistake. If you already want to do such entrance exams, you should at least check that they are at least adapted to our school system. We continue to call for free access to higher education for all, and that is what we stand for!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25332	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions: firstly, the facts to be corrected, then the correction. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25356	Madam President. If you look at me so strictly, the provisions will immediately come into my mind: Yes, I do! Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein claimed that FPÖ had applied here to abolish the tuition fees. - That's not true. Rather, it is true that FPÖ has requested to abolish the uniform national fees for all universities and to give universities the right to charge individually and also higher tuition fees than they are currently required.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25404	Next, Mr Magistrate. Iron gift. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25425	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As at this point the performance grants have been criticised several times: Of course, the 25 percent increase is a clear social sign for the service providers at the Austrian universities. The interest in a sustainable and efficient increase in performance in Austria is also to be rewarded. [[Abg. May. Honey: The problem is, however, that if you have to work side by side, you can't bring the performance like that!]] I would also like to thank Mr Hahn, because he is certainly also a provider of this government, but he fully supports the funding of studies and uses this instrument very successfully. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] A comparison which is also not uninteresting: The current student aid budget, which is very much used in the argumentation, is €36 million for 1.2 million students. The study aid includes €200 million for 250 000 students. That means: Ten times as much capital for one tenth of the potential contributor. But that also means scholarships for all those who need them and earn them in an audited way. As a representative of Lower Austria, I am happy to see improvements coming to my federal state from two sides. On the one hand, the novelle of the reference circle is extended, i.e. 700 additional recipients of this study support in Lower Austria. On the other hand, the country of Lower Austria has also come up with something. So far, the Lower Austrians had to pay more for public transport than the Vienna students. This will be balanced in the future. It's calming to know, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: Thanks to the blacks, no student needs to drive black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25468	Next, Mrs Mag. Drunk's word. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25489	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! I have only two minutes of speaking time, so I cannot present Mrs. Schatz's misconceptions on scholarships and maintenance. - Point one. Point two: 4 per cent of total gift grants. I tell you very briefly and also because of personal concern: I was a – as long as this grant has been available – who has benefited from it. You know why? I had to work before and earn my money for it. Then I got the scholarship and got completed faster with my studies. That was also social and fair, and this also applies to today's students. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Point three: Mr Hauser! I think it is good that you have our idea – namely, by Caspar A long time ago, one and the SPÖ were thinking of taking up a financial compensation at European level. That's great, it's worked on. Mr Graf! FPÖ and also the rest, the BZÖ! As Robert Hochner said, the archive is the revenge of journalists and politics. Look at your press releases during the coalition negotiations of ÖVP and BZÖ. Gehrer was first opposed to the introduction of the tuition fees. It was the intruders from your party who also demanded the internal coalition. So much for the historical truth! One last point, important to me – a minority problem, I have already mentioned it to the Minister – is: Unfortunately, there are still many students in Austria who have to pay double the tuition fee. Minister! I have now found a passage in the guidelines, on which we can build: Students who are admitted to several studies must pay the study contribution only once. I think that could happen in a short time. We could inform colleges, universities and find a way there. I would ask you to do this also in the matter of family aid, because I have learned that the proof of entitlements is treated differently in many financial offices. This would be a short information and would contribute much to facilitating access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25535	President. — The debate is closed. Decliner. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25557	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, to the liberals. At the time, you introduced the tuition fees. You've proved what you're for. So you do not need to make yourself up today and pretend to be against falsely quoted applications. You could have changed that with us in the meantime before the coalition. The actions must be examined, not what is being said here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second: With all the joy of this common and, I believe, very large educational promotion law novel, it is necessary not to forget the history completely, the history of those years in which there has been no increase for the students since 1999. At this time, we have made a few requests and have pointed out that the study aid is becoming less and less valuable. Members who are looking forward to this increase today have rejected our requests at the time. This was not a good time for the universities, and it was high time that something had changed for the universities through the government participation of SPÖ and through this election outcome. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's in the ÖVP program!]] – No, Gertrude, you, too, rejected those requests at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's in the ÖVP program!]] This can and must also be said because you are now even pretending to be your invention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was Josef Broukal, who is pleased to have already been mentioned by you, who has achieved that something has been put on here again in order to actually achieve the inflation balance for what has ever occurred in the past, i.e. an increase in rates to 20 percent. That is also to be mentioned. The other points are that this is now automatically taken up for the students from autumn onwards or the mobility scholarship or the point that the minimum limit has been lowered, from which you get an aid at all, all these are many, many improvements for the students. It is a great reform, but above all a reform with a social manuscript that we stand for.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25622	Mrs Fuhrmann's next speech. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25643	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! If you still have nothing else to think of the opposition today than to discuss how it was with the study fees now – who wanted to introduce it and who was it or who was against it and who wasn't – then I'm sorry, because I think students in Austria expect to be far more politicians than to philosophise about the past and look for a scapegoat. Rather, it must be our political task to create framework conditions at universities in order to make study optimal. If the FPÖ is here in the form of Mr Mag. Hauser, who has noticed me, manufactures and says, then you have to look to quote him literally where you get “the Marie” – the money – that the minister should have just fought in Brussels, I would like to say the following: Firstly, I do not want to go to the level of this division at all, and secondly: Who was it, besides Federal Minister Hahn, who made sure that Austrian students also have a privilege here to start and complete an education in Austria? – That was him, and that is our success. [[Abg. Broukal: For example, the German Chancellor!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If there is still a philosophy here – Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein has said that – that in the future only the rich will be able to study, and that one can revive the two-class society here or whatever, I must say that there is no one in Austria who cannot study for social reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Oh, yes! All who are not admitted!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] – Each fifth receives the tuition fees back, and now we have increased the funding! [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... Wurstmemmel! That's incredible!]] I mean, when it comes to reinvigorating old conflicts again, and by trying to generate votes in a populist way, it is the students who are very critical, the wrong clients, they will not get in touch with them. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] On the contrary, from the point of view of the students, you have to thank the Federal Minister for this initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25730	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Studienförderungsgesetz, in 405 of the Supplements. Mr Brinek, Mr Broukal, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. In addition, there is a desire for separate votes by Dr. Grünewald, Dr. Graf and Mag. Darmann before. I would therefore like to begin by voting on the part of the draft law concerned by the request for a separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been agreed. Mr Brinek, Mr Broukal, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment or amendment which refers to points 5 and 9 of the Government's proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the above mentioned parts of the bill in the text of the supplementary or amendment proposal to give a positive signal. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Brinek, Mr Broukal, Mr President, on point 29 of the Government's proposal. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, paragraph 29 of the draft law, in the version of the amendment referred to above, to give their agreement in order to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt, which have not yet been agreed, taking into account the supplementary or amendment request. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is done unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 422 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 423 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the request of the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 424 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 425 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 426 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:35:46]] 12. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (101 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Italian Republic on the mutual recognition of academic degrees and titles (427, e.g.) 13. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (257 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and Mongolia on the mutual recognition of equality in higher education (428b.b.) 14. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (258 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on scientific and technical cooperation (429d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25878	We come to points 12 to 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Dr. Sonnberger. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25908	Madam President. High house! Of course, the Group of the European People's Party welcomes the agreement with Italy on the mutual recognition of academic degrees and titles. And so that there are as many of them as possible, I would like to lose a word about the scholarships and the grants. Mr. Federal Minister Hahn, I experienced that in December 2006 three students came to me, who had had one year of study and unfortunately had not received a grant because there was finally too little money. As a result, we have discussed a lot, I have been in contact with the science spokesman, Mrs Brinek, and also with you, Mr Science Minister, and there has been a very, very reasonable solution, because funding grants and grants are now being given in a pot on the one hand – 3 and 1 per cent, a total of 4 per cent – and an increase of 25 per cent, so that, in the future, € 2 million more in scholarships and gift grants can be awarded. I really believe that it is an improvement if, in the future, about 2,700 grants can be awarded more per year. It was important that we have closed this gap in the interests of the powerful youth, and I do not want to miss out on thanking you personally for this initiative. This is a signal to the successful youth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25941	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25962	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! I can only agree with my previous speaker. I would like to add that today we too – this is a personal pleasure to me – decide on the agreement with Mongolia. Her predecessor as a minister of science was a great friend of Mongolia, and I too, as a friend of this small republic, who lives between Russia and China and is actually a small oasis, am particularly pleased that it is able to strengthen cooperation here, especially because the education class in Mongolia is to a very large extent speaking German. So there are really interesting potentials and possibilities here. Of course, I am also pleased about scientific and technical cooperation with Macedonia. The Honorary Consul of the Republic of Macedonia, Willi Rieder, is also pleased, I am to judge. And here too, I think, there are very interesting potentials for our research and technology scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e25993	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26016	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! In principle, all agreements between Austria and other countries are reasonable if they are international cooperation and if they bring something to both sides – perhaps even if they bring only one part when I think about development cooperation. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, right!]] – And I already have a short example. Many state agreements have been announced with very, very poor and low-income states on the provision of tuition fees, and it has now been left to the Austrian universities to define each one in cooperation agreements with individual universities of these countries. If I now take a state – well, that's not a very, very poor country – namely Turkey, then there are certainly 30 universities there. And if we want to study 200 Turks in Innsbruck and distribute them to 20 universities, if I want these Turks to be able to come to us so that they can benefit from our education and research, I would have to sign a contract with 20 universities. - That's the naked insanity! The reason why Mongolia is a nice oasis, which Mrs Gehrer liked very well, may be kind, but I also know that the head of government there – I am not sure if he was elected democratically, but I am happy to be taught a better teacher; some say it is very delicate – “Don Giovanni” loves it there. The fact that everyone from Austria is going to the “Don Giovanni” performance in Mongolia may be nice and nice, only I would like these contracts to be evaluated once if they are made. [[Abg. Scheibner: If it's a left hand, it's all right!]] With regard to all the East and South East Asia cooperations, some universities have said that there are beautiful excursions and that a lot of money will be "brought" and that you really don't know what comes out of it. If you were to look at that, it would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26064	Mr Fichtenbauer has now come to speak. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26085	Madam President. Minister! High house! This is a matter of unanimity, and it is especially up to me to stress, in particular, the fact that this agreement is concluded with Italy after a legal basis for the recognition of the diplomas under the ‘Bologna system’ is established. The existing agreement on mutual recognition of academic degrees and titles remains the legal basis for recognition. It should be underlined that Italy, as a particularly important neighbouring country and as a close partner country of Austria, enjoys our absolute appreciation and it is beneficial for neighbourhood relations to promote these exchange opportunities in particular. That is why this State Treaty is to be welcomed. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26116	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Darmann. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26139	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I too will make it short, because in terms of content a lot has already been given for the best, though very short. Both the Agreement between Austria and the Republic of Italy on the mutual recognition of academic degrees and titles and the Agreement with Mongolia on the mutual recognition of equality in higher education and, lastly, the Agreement with the Republic of Macedonia on scientific and technical cooperation should, of course, also be fully supported by the BZÖ. – So I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26166	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the proposal of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with the Government of the Italian Republic on the mutual recognition of academic degrees and titles to be approved in 101 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with Mongolia on the mutual recognition of equality in higher education, to be approved in 257 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the request of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on scientific and technical cooperation, to be approved in 258 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. [[22:45:32]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Sports on Amendment No 485/A(E) by Mr Petra Bayer, Mr Franz Glaser, colleagues on sustainability criteria for the equipment of Austrian athletes at major events in 2008 (412)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26237	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. [[Abg. Neugebauer: (in the direction of the State Secretary, Dr. Lopatka, who is taking place on the government bank) Greeting God, Secretary of State! Good birthday!]] There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Christ. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26275	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! After long and very sporty hiking, this request finally finds the approval of all the political groups. This is also pleasing because it deals with initiatives on sustainability, but also with mandatory rules of conduct for the production of sportswear. In particular, large sporting events, such as they stand up, provide an opportunity for enhanced awareness-building and education work, but Austrian athletes must again be equipped. In the case of coffee, chocolate, orange juice, cut flowers, there have been very successful initiatives worldwide for years, and the clothing industry is still in high demand here. Nevertheless, there are already some well-known producers who are seriously dealing with this subject and are quite active. The company Puma, which acknowledges its ecological and social responsibility, is particularly worth mentioning here, and the Austrian football club has an exclusive contract for the national team, which is also used for the EURO 08. However, companies such as Löffler from Ried im Innkreis or the company Tatonka are also committed to the protection of species of endangered animal habitats, such as polar foxes, investing money in the production countries in environmental protection, ensuring social standards with financial means and ensuring in the respective production facilities that child labour is not in question for them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, who else than politics can help to support and promote such initiatives and where it is going to influence the purchasing policy of sports associations and sports officials? It is a pleasure that our Minister of Sports and Federal Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer also wants to accompany this path actively and explain in discussions with the BSO whether any criteria and targets can be included in the statutes of the sports associations. At the same time, however, it is also to be examined whether these ideas can be integrated into federal sport promotion. At any rate, it is very welcome that this request can be agreed here in plenary. I thank you for this, and I can invite you all to actively support verifiable sustainability criteria in the production of sportswear.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26322	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26343	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! In the past, organisations such as ‘Clean Clothes’ have contributed much to the awareness of the production companies in terms of compliance with the environmental criteria, human rights and labour rights. There is already a lot of progress, and it is also very pleased that the companies of the sports goods trade in Austria are dealing with the corporate social responsibility activities of companies and are very clearly focusing on products that are sustainable and fair in trade. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: It's over!]] It is the right way in the right direction. The Austrian Olympic Committee has always had a great deal of contact with “Clean Clothes” in the past, and this organization has proposed to force Austrian products from Austrian manufacturers in particular, and this request has also been taken into account. I think the Austrian sports associations are giving preference to these products that have been produced in a sustainable manner, and therefore it is gratifying that the Austrian team at the Olympic Games is only equipped with such products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26383	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Lunacek. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26404	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that a request made in a similar form by the Greens during the last legislative period – under the title Play fair at the Olympics; it was postponed at the time, 2006 – this time even without our approval, a resurrection is celebrated and treated in committee. I hope that the opposition parties may be involved in the future. That would be very encouraging and helpful. But, well, that's what's still done in the committee. It has also succeeded in changing the relationship with the football club and the 2008 Olympic Games in such a way that it can also affect other sporting events, because finally it is already a bit late to decide on the equipment and clothing used in these two major sporting events. In any event, it is important to me that there is again a kind of report from you, Mr State Secretary, to the Committee and to Parliament on the results of your negotiations with the EOC and with the sports goods operators. We have often experienced in the past that there have been good demands and the companies have said that we do, we have a CSR program, we have a code of conduct et cetera, but in reality, not much has happened. We know what working conditions are in the manufacture of sports clothing and equipment. It is mainly women who produce in the world market factories, on conditions far away from international standards, such as those of the International Labour Organisation. At many of these factories, when women become pregnant, there is no vacation and illness and working hours of 16 hours per day without free days. – These are not fair working conditions, even for sports articles. I hope that this proposal will help to ensure that there is more justice in the field of sports goods manufacturers and that, as has been said, in the next or next sports committee, you, Mr State Secretary, will have a report on what you can hopefully negotiate with the companies and with the IOC – or probably first with the EOC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26440	Mr Bucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26464	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we also support this initiative that athletes and athletes are permanently equipped with sports equipment and sports clothing to comply with the appropriate fair trade rules. I have also pointed out in the Committee that it is time to ensure that – the European Football Championship is a good time – that the fair trade seal is also used to match the footballs. It is known that 80 percent of the football balls come from Pakistan, where they are made by child labour. Five to twelve-year-olds sew the football balls together in laborious handwork. Also, those equipment companies selected for the European Football Championship have their sports equipment manufactured in Pakistan. So it would also be a corresponding sign, which radiates from Austria to the whole world, if one can say that the football balls of the European Championship in Austria have a fair trade seal.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26491	Mrs Bayr has now come to speak. [[Call the SPÖ: She's not there!]] - She's not present. Next come Mr. State Secretary Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26520	Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to speak after Mrs Bayr, because she is also significantly involved in this request. Unfortunately, this is not possible. I should therefore like to say a few words directly to Mr Lunacek.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26566	The Secretary of State is on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26581	Mrs Lunacek, I would just like to take a very brief look at your comments. Of course, there will be this report. But there will not only be this report from me, but there has already been something. I have contacted the ÖOC and also the ÖFB on the basis of this request and may tell you that, on the one hand, the EOC, together with Clean Clothes, wants to develop a contract in this regard with regard to the equipment for the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing. On the other hand, I can tell you that Puma, the outfitter of our national football team, was one of the first companies ready to meet the requirements of the Fair Labour Association. I have an appointment next week with the representative of Clean Clothes, who is responsible for Austria, to develop concepts beyond these major events, which are strongly noted. Since we now have a comprehensive future discussion on Austrian sport, there is a great opportunity here. Within this future discussion, I want to achieve that these principles will be observed not only in major events but also in the broadest sense in the future. Last sentence: It is precisely this request that sport is of great importance, including beyond what it is directly linked to, namely, movement and health. The sport has a far-reaching impact on society. On the topic of fair trade, athletes can use the clothing they wear be great models. In this sense: You'll get the report.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26623	Mr Glaser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26645	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Sports and development cooperation is a very incontrovertible chapter. On the one hand, especially developing countries often surprise us with their sporting performance potential, or sports is a door opener especially among children in developing countries. The Secretary of State supports many projects in which children in developing countries come through sport to education. I would like to thank him very much and congratulate him at the same time on his birthday, which, I believe, took place two days ago. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] The other, less pleasing side of sport and development cooperation is that sports articles are produced in low-cost countries on conditions that are often unworthy of human beings, where child labour is one of the major problems and the fact that social and environmental standards are low. That is why there is this request – also in view of the fact that we are now standing in front of the EM, and we want to draw attention to the fact that there are major problems in the low-cost countries when it comes to the production of equipment for sport. We call on the government to speak seriously with the sports goods manufacturers and dealers in this regard in order to ensure that standards are complied with. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26681	Mrs Franz. Speaking time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26702	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are just ahead of EURO 2008 and also in front of the Beijing Olympics. And there will again be pressure on the clothing industry to produce according to sustainable criteria. The fact is that various organisations in Austria and in EU countries have been drawing attention for years to abuses in the manufacture of sportswear. Already during the last Summer Olympics in Athens, international and national committees have been invited to act on the sports equipment, partly with success. Companies showed insight, but unfortunately not all of them moved. That is why we agree that the wear and equipment of the Austrian athletes is now and also for the future in compliance with all verifiable sustainability criteria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26730	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Eder. 1 minute speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26754	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been said a lot about this only seemingly small marginal theme, and that is not only a topic of the sports goods industry, but also of course also concerns other sectors of activity. Many manufacturers and sports goods dealers have quite a problem awareness. In part, large companies are also recruited with products from fair production. This fair production is even a decision-making criterion for retailers when purchasing. Manufacturers are reminded of their responsibilities, but at least as important it is in the sense of sustainability to raise awareness of the end-user. However, this would require, among other things, an honest identification of the origin of an article. International organisations, coordination bodies and educational campaigns are needed. Those who are already there need broad support – not least, especially from politics. For this, ladies and gentlemen, large sporting events such as the EM 2008 and the Olympic Games are just right, using renowned athletes and teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26790	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. Also 1 minute speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26812	Mr President. High house! Interestingly, in connection with a big sporting event like the football Euro 2008 the word – and it is not a keyword! – “Fair Trade” stands. This is something else, but in my opinion, one of the most important initiatives of this European football championship – the perhaps most important side-by-side issue in the world, as it brings the greatest importance to human dignity and human rights, particularly in relation to child labour. As far as sport is concerned, of course I wish our team much success. – Finally, this would also be the greatest support for our youth and sport. However, there is already a winner in front of the EM: That is our youth. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to thank the responsibilities in the Federal Government, especially Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, whom I warmly congratulate on the golden UEFA badge he received a few days ago. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] This is not related to his birthday, but above all to his valuable merits for the sport. – Live the sport!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26851	The last provisional speaker on this item is Mrs Bayr. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Your second word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26872	Mr President. - And whether! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that's not possible!]] It's easy to report. That's how it goes. . Ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago I had the opportunity to look at me on a journey of women's solidarity, among other things, together with Christine Marek, as is the situation of women in the textile industry in India, where there can be no reference to a regulated working day, where child labour is on the agenda, where there is an unpaid overtime, where there is no worker protection at all – for example, in the coloring of textiles – and where adequate payment cannot be said. There are now alternatives also and especially in the sports textile area. There are products with labels like that of the Clean Clothes Campaign, there are also fair trade footballs, for example, where there is no child labour inside, and I think it is nice that we take the EURO 2008 as an opportunity to point out. There is a sustainability charter and a lot of activities around the EURO. However, I still find it very unfortunate that there are glaring contracts with sponsors that determine very clearly which products may be sold on the fan miles, for example. And in turn, fair trade products such as orange juice or coffee or whatever unfortunately have lost nothing. That's very bad. I think we should work together – and it is nice that it has become a five-party application – to build political pressure and to raise awareness that even in the Olympic Committee, even in FIFA, in the public sector, and so on, the guiding principle is that Fair Play is naturally needed for everyone. If we say yes to anti-doping measures for our top athletes – what we should of course do – then we also have to say yes to anti-dumping measures for workers in the third world. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26919	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the resolution attached to the 412 Committee Report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 60.) [[23:05:29]] 16. Point Report by the Committee on Sports on motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, Peter Haubner, colleagues on the implementation of the “White Paper Sport” (413 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e26971	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs Schasching. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27002	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would like to start with the words of Pierre de Coubertins, who said: “ Sport is the heritage of all people and nothing can replace its lack.” Following Coubertin's thinking, the EU has now presented a White Paper on sport which calls on us to consider the content in all nations, to make proposals for implementation and to consider that sport is not just a matter of of the top sport, but above all as a sport for all people is an important, bearing pillar of society. Sport serves to socialise our youth, is important for integration – an essential part of integration! –, helps in all forms of life, including the equal rights of girls and boys and is, above all, also an essential part of the health care of our population. WHO recommends 30 minutes of qualified exercise daily as an absolute minimum for an adult. The absolute minimum for children is 60 minutes of daily movement. To set the goal and thus work on the White Paper to ensure that this becomes true in Austria as well and that one of these requirements can be followed in the future, not only the Federal Government's task, but also the entire sports community. All associations are invited to co-operate and cooperate. I assume that all of you, ladies and gentlemen, will be able to give your consent to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27044	The next speaker is Mr Peter Haubner. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27068	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Sport has entered the European Union's field of play. The anchoring of sport in the reform treaty to promote the European dimension of sport as its own chapter is a very important contribution, which, of course, also means funding. Nice and Lisbon have now also given the role of sport a European level and a higher value. I quote from the White Paper Sport: “The European institutions have recognised the specific role of volunteer-based sports in health, education, social inclusion and culture in European society.” But it is very important that we bring in the autonomy for the associations in this process, because this very important contribution, which has contributed to the success story of sports in recent years and decades in Austria, is not so much taken into account in the White Paper of Sport. In this respect, we want all committed people to continue to have their basis in the sports clubs. They make a great contribution to a sporty and healthy Austria. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27106	Mr Mag. Kogler is the next speaker. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27127	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! White Paper – good thing; Speech – good thing. I'm saving myself the good thing. We all agree anyway, and Mr Maier, whose request we are discussing here, is certainly right if he wants us to move on faster. On the other hand, I would like to disturb the harmony a little bit if we believe that we are constantly “becoming” one another with our stand-ups somewhere. [[Abg. Riepl: That's what I thought!]] The point is: When it comes to combating doping – for example, what would be a special issue there – we need to look at how we deal with the relevant legislation in Austria. – There is not only an anti-doping law, but there are several provisions, and we always come right up to the point where the last scandal has ceased. Then we hop a little forward again, but never far enough to prevent another one. This is not surprising either, because it is so all over the world, and it can't be different as long as – this is a personal remark that you can sometimes afford – society works that way. By the way, I enjoy sitting in front of the TV and thinking: It's great, like they're going to "valve" there! But if we work in such a way that on a five-kilometer descent the one that is three hundredths faster than the other is the first, and the one that is three hundredths behind is possibly the fourth, and the first is all cashed, the second is a little bit of something that has a third place just somewhere and the fourth is the last ass in this world... – Yes, it is! [[Calls.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27168	Mr President, I would ask you, after 23 o'clock, to make a more careful statement. - Set Go on, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27191	Look, that's how we talk at the sports venues and on the crowd of spectators, and we're going to keep it there. As long as this classification is promoted by the economy downward to finally also to politics, where many of us in this spectacle are demarcating from the honorary tribunals, as long as that is so, we can give speeches here, as we want, if we do not even recognize the problem, but still sing firmly with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27232	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27253	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! In fact, the White Paper on Sport – unlike many others in the EU – is quite a reasonable thing. You can win it a little. Exciting will be how things will be implemented. I would also like to address this briefly at this late hour. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is interesting that you can find appropriate passages in the White Paper Sport, where it is about the question of team shares of domestics in club sports and where – and that must be mentioned! – it is still noted that there is a protection of the domestic interests in these team sports, if you represent such a thing, and what it is about is that in these teams Austrians are just there and that this is something quite legitimous. I am very curious about the consequences of this because I believe that there is a great deal of need for reflection in Austria, especially in view of the ground- admirable appreciation, which the sport now gets from all sides. But what is useful if you start in width and then at the top the Austrian athletes in their own teams only sit on the reserve bank. You can't be so far away from the reality that you haven't heard the call in the Austrian hockey in the last few weeks. The Austrian ice hockey players were basically victims of a completely outrageous point system, where each Legionary is preferred and the Austrians on the reserve bank then their existence their term – i.e., Legionaires un. This is a point where I am very curious about how the government will implement it. The second point, doping, is also very interesting. You can have us at any time for a fight against the doping. This is very important and will support everyone. However, I would ask that the child not be thrown out with the bath, completely turned around and then, at the end of the day, prioritized every athlete. This is the trend towards the opposite direction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then people come under the wheels, because there are labels somewhere, because there are untight places somewhere, because someone's some rumors or reputations are being committed somewhere. People are executed medially, and if you think it's not that way, then it's too late to fix this damage again. Another thing: When it comes to, and recommended in this White Paper, appreciating and appreciating the associations, the associations and all that, it is also necessary to leave the party policy outside. This is in the direction of the Greens, who are responsible for sports matters in Upper Austria, who have to do nothing better than to take the ÖTB into custody – because it is ideologically inappropriate to you for any reason, because as good people of the service you have a problem with the Turnfather Jahn, what we know anyway. But there you have the ÖTB in the stranglehold and operate nothing but a political necessity, where you have basically refused the subsidies for a year and thus put the entire business at risk, just because you pay homage to your estate. So if you want to provide a service to sports, I would recommend that you abandon such stupidities.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27323	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27345	Mr President. We have said yes to the White Paper, and we are eagerly waiting, Mr State Secretary, for the reports you will present to us whether the recommendations of the experts have been implemented. So yes to the White Paper, yes to reporting.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27369	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27392	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Good thing – White Paper; good thing – the contributions from the debate, said by Mr Kogler – is perfectly right. Sports, however, is more than just running, swimming, skiing and top-notch sports. The top sport is of course also perfectly used by the economy. This means that 15 million people in Europe earn their money in sports or sports areas. But it is true that this close relationship between the economy and sport also leads to the fact that athletes are often put under massive pressure, which in turn leads to the principle of: Increasingly higher, further, faster, more risky and dangerous, more exciting!, with more on-board rates on television, more cribble is provided by the spectators, but the protection of athletes is neglected and they are more exposed to doping and similar. Heavy accidents as last in Kitzbühel may be the result, and we must be careful that this does not continue to happen. I would also like to refer to sensational greed. What can be found in the “Google ”? For example: “Horrorrorschlutz von Scott McCartney. – He is conscious, can move arms and legs and has no appearances of paralysis.” What else can be found in the “Google ”? I quote: ‘Lustful sports accidents for compassion and laughter; Sports accidents – your funny videos; curious sports accidents” and so on. – These are really the curious excerpts in sport. The pressure often means that the athletes have to do more and more, which they are no longer necessarily able to accomplish in human and physical terms. I think you should take care of it from this point of view and take it into account. The health of athletes should also be our concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27433	Mrs Stadler is the next speaker. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27454	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The reform Treaty of the European Union takes account of the sport chapter for the first time, and this is a success for sport and for all those responsible for it for years, in Part 1 of the Treaty under the heading ‘Supplementary measures’. This means that the European Commission does not receive new skills in the ‘sport’ policy area, but that only complementary and supportive measures and no harmonising measures are possible. That is to say, the Member States will continue to remain Mr or Mrs over their sports policy. The White Paper on Sport and the resulting measures will most likely be the basis for the European Commission's funding directive, and it is therefore important for us political representatives that we now get involved in this discussion. Our task is also to examine the content of the White Paper very critically and to assess and assess the extent to which the characteristics of sport are taken into account accordingly. We want to do this together, as we have already heard from our sports spokesperson, with our associations and sports organisations. In order for Austria's needs to be included in this final paper, Austria is a sports country – a number one sport country! – is in Europe, a sporting event country. . I therefore welcome this proposal and very much agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27493	Mr Lopatka, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27515	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the hour ahead, a sentence on the White Paper, a sentence on the EU Treaty and then few sentences on what has been said here so far. A sentence on the EU Treaty: I am glad that after a long, long time, the EU has for the first time recognised sport in a Constitutional Treaty. Why are you glad? – Because it created the legal basis for the first time that the EU can also provide funds for sport. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Why do we need the EU for sport? Why does the EU need to be recognized for sport?- Oh, my God!]] – Please report to the floor! It's very late. Let me speak for the three minutes undisturbed. Thank you. Second point: White Paper on sports. – Zum The White Paper on Sport is to be said: Six Sports Ministers and Sports Secretarys – I was there too – sat yesterday with IOC President Jacques Rogge in Lausanne to make the most of this White Paper possible together with organised sports. If we fill this with content, then that makes sense, and if we do not succeed, then it is very nice what is in this white paper. Each member country in the EU is invited to fill the content, but above all the autonomous sports organisations. Third point: In very detailed words, Mr Kogler has mentioned what we can criticize, but it is also, of course, what fascinates people about sports: the struggle for the seconds. It can only win one, the second is the first loser. He criticized all of this, but he did not offer the alternative, which is equally exciting. I say the sport lives on the fact that there is this fight, this dispute over hundreds ofths, for thousands ofths. And I've often experienced my colleague Kogler enough at the sports field and I know that a 1 : 0 for storm Graz would probably be better for him than a 0 : 0. In the end, it's about winning and becoming first. Everything else is a philosophical discussion that can be held, but that makes sports so fascinating, this contest. Only we must succeed in achieving that this contest is conducted with fair means, and not with sport fraud. With “sport fraud” I mean doping. As governments are called for, Parliament is called for to be up-to-date here – and this has also been mentioned before – and I see this as the great task of all of us: to create the framework conditions, but at the same time to be aware that sport only works if we leave it its speciality – in the autonomy of the sports associations – and that sport can only work if we also honor our volunteering. In this sense, it is a good step for sport to appear in the EU Treaty, that there is the White Paper, but the decisive step will be what we make of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27559	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27581	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! In the White Paper on Sport, the European Commission's first comprehensive debate on sport takes place. A great thing! Sports represents a growing social and economic phenomenon for the future. The Olympic idea is also very important as regards the promotion of peace, the understanding of the peoples among themselves and, ultimately, the education of youth. Ladies and gentlemen, the Europeans are very excited about sports. About 60 percent deal with the topic of sport and, accordingly, also practice sports activities. It has been shown that some 700 000 clubs are registered, in which very, very many young people are enthusiastic about their sport. In this sense you simply have to say: Thank you very much! And: Live the sport!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27614	The next speaker is Mr Einwallner. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27646	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State for Sport! High house! This lifting of sport at EU level, of course, also allows young people new opportunities through various programmes. One of these is provided for in the “White Paper on Sport”, “Youth in Action”, or the “Citizens for Europe” programme, where the Commission proposes to promote voluntary activities of young people in the field of sport, but also youth exchanges among European countries. However, the use of the potential of sport for social inclusion, integration and equal opportunities is also envisaged. I believe that this is especially important for a meaningful leisure policy. Today, when discussing how young people shape their leisure time, you have to say: This is really a great other way of promoting meaningful leisure for young people. I believe that Austria will be excellently involved with our State Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27673	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore immediately vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 413 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 61.) [[23:26:00]] 17. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (263 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Association Act 2002 (439 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27724	We now reach the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Kößl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27755	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The association law 2002 will be further improved with today's novelle. This innovation must be seen from the point of view of debureaucratisation on the one hand, on the other hand, of simplification, cost reduction, cost reduction and adaptation to today's needs. In the future, the search for an association in the club register will be modified and facilitated. If we know the club name and the club seat, it is possible to determine the club. We have taken this novel into account the long-standing wishes of the club board members. The Central Association Register now has a standard like a company book. The change of law means an important relief for the work of the associations. We are behind the clubs, we are behind the two million volunteers of fellow citizens who do an invaluable work for our society, and I would therefore like to use the revision of the association law to express warm thanks and admiration for their activities from this point of view for all those who are so committed to volunteering. The ÖVP will continue to be a partner for the clubs in the future when it comes to facilitating their work for the associations.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27785	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27806	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kößl has already pointed out that this novel was wanted by the club boards. However, I would also like to point out that it is also important for the other side to facilitate, because it is often necessary in business dealings with associations to obtain certain data: whether it be the names of the association officials authorised with the representation to the outside, whether it is the seat of the association or similar information. However, it has been shown that the Central Association Register contains this information and that it can be accessed via the Internet, but only if the exact name of the association or the ZVR number is known. That doesn't always have to be the case. There are about a million requests a year that do not lead to a target. That is why this amendment has come about, and I believe that it is both a discharge of the association authority and a better use of it. the register will be brought. Therefore, this innovation, I think, is positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27839	The next speaker is Mr Mayerhofer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27860	Dear Minister Platter, greet God! Mr President. A people of club enthusiasts requires a functional association law. In the high tax country of Austria, the united citizen may expect a maximum of citizen-friendly service as a consideration for his tax performance, as is the case now because of this recast of the association law. A praise to the officials who have prepared this! A functioning administration creates more satisfied citizens in an area, and nothing else we wish ourselves today and here and around this time. Thank you again to the officials concerned! We are very pleased to give our support to this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27887	Mrs Stadler is the next speaker. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27937	Mr President. Federal Minister! The present draft law on the amendment of the association law will bring administrative simplification and relief to our associations, because the association register will be easier to ask online in the future. In concrete terms, the difficulty so far was that the requester had to know the ZVR number of an association in order to carry out a successful query when asked in the association register. This change of law will enable the association to be determined even by individual parts of the name in conjunction with the club's seat, so that confusion can be ruled out. This means that a million requests, which have been unsuccessful so far, will no longer take place, which, of course, will also result in savings, because the authority will be relieved of staff here. I would like to thank our Federal Minister, who, through his initiative, is once again taking a step towards administrative simplification and greater civil kindness.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27971	The next speaker is Mr Hursky. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e27992	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not really want to repeat the statements made by my previous speakers. I don't think that makes sense because the law on and on itself is a good thing. I just want to interpret a few things on this issue. Mr Strache has today, I believe, rightly pointed out that there were 50 000 immigrants in Austria between 2000 and 2006. I think it offers a very good opportunity here... [[Abg. Rosary: When, please?]] – Mr Strache said this today in the morning: 50 000 net immigration. This is the first item on the agenda to which he spoke. [[Abg. Rosary: From when to when?]] I think 2000 or something by 2007 or so. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: No, no, that must be quite precise!]] It's meaty. At this time I don't argue with you around, otherwise I have to use my weird speaking time for it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 50 000 a year, that's easier! - Actually, wurch!]] Good. Wurst. “Swimm over” if we already have this slogan. It's easier. It is very important that we offer the immigrants here in Austria an opportunity to integrate very well here. This has also been achieved relatively well in the integration report of the Minister. This is one thing we would particularly like to assume in the future that we also offer immigrants via the associations the corresponding rails, to come into contact with our Austrian fellow citizens and to develop mutual understanding, in order to finally also allow good living together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28069	Mr. Friend is the next speaker. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28090	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our associations in Austria are not only about joint leisure activities, but also about charitable projects and, of course, sports activities. Austria is now a country of many clubs. The associations exist due to idealism and volunteer work of the members and the association officials who do great things. Therefore, they cannot be thought away from our society. Our task is to create the legal framework for this. In 2002, the association law was reformed and simplified. We now also want to make it easier to consult the public register. From my point of view, it cannot be said that about 1 million people who request are being rejected because of unknown ZVR numbers, because that means immense unnecessary red tape. The query criteria are now facilitated or extended. This is not only easier for citizens seeking information, but also brings financial benefits through personal relief. The People's Party stands with our associations and bodies in Austria and supports them. That is why we will, of course, agree to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28120	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote, and we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 263 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[23:36:24]] 18. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (223 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the International Criminal Police Organisation (ICPO-Interpol) on the headquarters of the Interpol Anti-Corruption Academy in Austria and Appendix (440 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28175	We're coming to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Kößl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28205	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today we decide on the status of the anti-corruption academy in Austria and its staff so that they can take up their work. The Interpol shall in particular be granted the inviolability of the Office of the Academy, the exemption from jurisdiction, the inviolability of archives and the exemption of taxes and duties as provided for in this Agreement. Furthermore, the rights and immunities of the staff of the Academy and its Director, the employees and officials of Interpol and the official visitors are regulated. The settlement of the anti-corruption academy is a huge gain for Austria. This is an important development in international police cooperation. The settlement of the world's first anti-corruption academy is clearly in the interest of Austria. It contributes significantly to strengthening the security location of Austria and to a close link with other international organization in Austria. Minister of the Interior! I would like to thank you for this commitment that it was possible last July to ratify this agreement with Noble, the Secretary-General of Interpol. I believe that this agreement is a very, very important contribution in the field of security.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28235	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28257	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kößl has just pointed out the important points, but I think one should stress: That this agreement should cover a number of important organizations which are in our home country. have settled, a further step is taken. And I think we should be happy together because that is of enormous importance. On this occasion, I would not like to miss out on thanking all our officials working in this field at national level, at European level and also in international organisations. Let us be proud of it and be proud that we can decide today!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28289	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. - She refuses. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then the next speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28319	Minister! Of course, we also welcome the fact that there will be the anti-corruption academy here in Austria. Perhaps it is also a contribution to thinking a little bit about the fact that billions of euros per year disappear in the EU's corruption summit, because this European Union is one of the biggest corruption events at all. It is not so bad to have this anti-corruption academy here in Austria, too. For all the dissidents in this house, because I notice that something is happening here: Breathe! There's no longer any regular list anyway. Come down, breathe! Since the BZÖ takes up the first seven ranks in this ranking, no more barbarians are published. So don't worry!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28354	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28375	Mr President. Minister! High house! It has already been said, I want to join: Austria has great interest in the establishment of the Interpol Anti-Corruption Academy. The fight against corruption is an important aspect of police work because it creates legal certainty without which a successful development of states is in fact impossible. A wealth of work awaits the future graduates of the Academy, a rich field of work. The Academy is thus another important step in the fight against corruption and is also a platform for the creation of the necessary international relations with the fight against corruption in the police field. For this reason too, the settlement of the Interpol Anti-Corruption Academy in Austria is very welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28400	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28421	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are actually four stations that contribute to the establishment of this academy here in Austria. The first took place in January 2006 with a Council of Ministers decision. Then our highly valued Mrs Prokop, together with the head of state Pröll, initiated the whole thing. In The year 2007 was our esteemed Federal Minister Platter, who signed the contract. And today we are deciding on this state agreement. Two years of work, and you see, when you work with emphasis, you can also settle such institutions here in Austria. Corruption is a subject without borders. We here in Austria do not need to hide when it comes to this issue. We are very good at fighting them internationally and in European comparison. However, I believe that we must and can make a contribution to addressing, managing and implementing this international issue in the sense of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28453	Mr Platter spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28475	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, there are two or three more comments. On the one hand, I am very grateful for the fact that there have only been positive contributions to this anti-corruption academy in Laxenburg in Lower Austria. Secondly, of course, it is a very special phenomenon that we are dealing with in the field of corruption, but also internationally. That is why it is an incredible award and also an international recognition that this anti-corruption academy is located in Lower Austria. Considering that all Interpol Member States in Rio de Janeiro have unanimously given the award for Austria, for Lower Austria, this is a very special matter that we must nevertheless honour. I would also like to thank the Land Niederösterreich for the good cooperation. I am convinced that this will be a very special international institution in the field of security policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28508	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with the Annex, in 223 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[23:44:53]] 19. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment 313/A(E) by Mrs Gerhard Steier, Mr Rädler, Mr Rädler, on fine dust from laser printers and copiers (407 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28557	We arrive at the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Steier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28591	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! In the offices, laser printers belong to standard equipment. If these devices were almost inexorable to the private sector a few years ago, much falling device prices have led to laser printers becoming increasingly widespread in all private workplaces, living rooms and especially in children's rooms. A wide range of different models are available to consumers from around €60 upwards. The offer is equally varied with the necessary toners, from the original, through the recycling to the no-name product. Ladies and gentlemen, the emissions of laser printers from toxicologists have been on the agenda for a number of years, because, during the start-up and operation of these devices, harmful substances are released. The producers on the one hand see risks only when the equipment is improperly used and warn against panic. On the other hand, those affected, such as the German community of interests, speak of a systematic harmonizing of the problem. In the meantime, however, there are several scientific studies on the problem of dust pollution in the indoor air during the operation of laser printers, especially the fine dust in the nano sector. The recent final report on the German toner study provides clear indications of the influence of the indoor air by the operation of printers and copiers. In my opinion, this very clear assessment of the problem is sufficient to promote scientific risk research in Austria on the basis of already existing studies. At the same time, we need to increase information opportunities for consumers and transport the use of low-emission devices and toner. These are very important aspects of the motion for a resolution which we hope will be agreed together today. And I should like to thank all the supporters very much for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28628	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28649	Mr President. High house! We are all already subject to very large loads, loads from pollutants, and that is why this request is so important to us. My previous speaker has already said: It's about fine dust exposure by laser printers and copiers. Since there is currently no clear statement as to how high and whether there could be any health hazards, we want to see an own substantial investigation carried out in Austria. If the results are available, appropriate measures shall be taken. I hope you will support this request, because we cannot do enough to prevent possible health risks.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28682	The next speaker is Mrs Hradecsni. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28703	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Fine dust from laser printers and copiers is a subject that rightly focuses on safety at work. So far, fine dust has not necessarily been associated with office workplaces. There are now studies with quite different results, whether the toner is responsible for the fine dust and the ultra-fine dust load or whether the high fine dust concentrations have other causes. The fact is that laser printers and copiers emit fine dust. It is also clear that the emitted nanoparticles are sick. It is therefore necessary to take rapid action. We will agree to this request, we have already done so in committee. However, we are not quite happy about it, as it is extremely inaccurate and dirtyly formulated from our point of view. While we welcome the task of an Austrian study, we miss any time horizon. It is not defined until the study has to be commissioned, let alone when it is to deliver results to us. Furthermore, it is not enough to start an information campaign after the study has been conducted, but it is necessary to set legal limits thereafter. We should start the information campaign immediately, because there are already numerous recommendations from occupational medicine, which would be immediately and relatively easy to implement. A good approach is from our point of view to include fine dust emissions in the best bidder assessment in public procurement. However, this also requires legal limit values and mandatory identification of fine dust emissions. All in all, the proposal is a correct approach, but we wish it a little more concrete in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28746	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28768	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, a wonderful evening! We deal with the important problems of fine dust from laser printers and copiers in the run-up to the ghost hour. And there may be the perception that this coalition is completely disputed when we have been watching the debate today. They say about the others who lie in the hammock, they do nothing, they are lazy. The others are the evil blockers. - That's all wrong. I'll give you two proof of why this coalition works well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] One is in the personal sense – then, for example, when two new holding directors are installed at the Austrian Bundesbahnen, red holding boards are installed by an annual salary of €500 000. That's where it works. [[Abg. Steibl: On the topic!]] Or at the ASFINAG, which is regraded. But this coalition also works in the material sense. And here's the evidence. [[The speaker shall keep the request up to date.]] It is not the question of security problems, poverty, study fees, which is all very important for people. It is the fine dust problem and the joint determination to do a study on Austrian soil, how to meet the fine dust. That's good, and that's nice. But I don't really understand. The printers are all coming mostly from the Far East. Of course, it would be interesting to find out whether the printer from Japan from Canon, for example, dusts a little differently in Ireland than with us in Austria or in the Federal Republic of Germany or in Italy. There is a higher humidity in Ireland. There it may be pressing and not dusting so strongly. In Spain it is drier, there is another overdusting situation. It is absurd in itself to use taxpayers in a common house in Europe to do such a study, which is already in place many times, ladies and gentlemen! But now I come to the constructive part. Of course, it is true that laser printers and copiers cause damage, which you also have to fight and where you have to look for regulatorys, so that there are as few health hazards as possible. However, I wonder: How do you imagine that? They make the common area Schengen, the criminals are coming into the country very comfortably across the street. No one's gonna stop them anymore. But the “evil ” printer from Japan, perhaps dusting a little too much, is stopped. The intention behind it is a good one. – My Klubordner reminds me of the hurry. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] – We will agree to this for the simple reason that we can avoid all possibilities of minimising health risks as far as possible. I thank you for the late evening attention and hope that my Klubordner is not evil because I have crossed the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28825	Mr Buchinger spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28847	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Vilimsky, yes, you ran open with your appeal. Of course, the great coalition has already demonstrated throughout the day, for 20 hours, how closed it has now been in the field of care debate and a good solution together. [[Demonstrative applause and bravoruf des Abg. Vilimsky.]] This will also be the case in the other areas that will still be decided today and tomorrow. [[Abg. Voves says hello!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Black hammock”!]] Your imagination is worthy of honour, I would have had a hard time getting to Schengen from the fine dust of toners. I did not know what you were saying. Are you now in favour of working there, are you not in favour of becoming active? Is it an important question, is it not an important question? Mr Steirer, Mr Rädler, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, see an important question here. And I confirm that. There is also a study by the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment, which has already come to the conclusion: that – I quote – “under precautionary aspects already appear on the basis of the current state of knowledge”, my colleague Vilimsky, “preventive measures on health protection (exposure minimization). At any rate, this Federal Institute advises not to use laser printers and copiers in closed rooms in frequent printer operations, but to provide air circulation. There are a number of practical indications, which can also be done at the moment, but because the risk burden is not finally estimated, it is reasonable to order an Austrian study to take account of the German preliminary results as well. From the point of view of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, it would be useful to work together with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. Probably the latter would have the coordination. The study would involve the Ministry of Consumer Protection in the costs. The questions of worker protection and the legal changes must be addressed by the relevant ministries. As Minister for Consumer Protection, I would like to stress once again: This initiative, which has been launched here from the Committee, is an initiative that is important because laser printers are increasingly using jobs, but also in private areas, and need to be taken into account more widely than before, because the risk has also increased in quantity and will continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28902	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28924	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you are right, it has already been discussed a lot about the condition of the coalition. But one thing you have not yet told us, namely, what it actually looks like with the “black hammock. ” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We would have liked to know!]] – We would have liked to know. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: No new speeches provoke!]] But now for the large-scale application, which aims to achieve a reduction in the fine dust load of laser printers and copiers, thus reducing a possible health risk by toner dust and reducing it quite easily. There is a study, Mr. Federal Minister, a German study. In a European Union, one could actually use one thing, the best practice method, to take over from other countries something in Austria. There you could save your own study. It would be very reasonable not only to apply the best bidder principle, but also to look at how fine dust emissions are for certain new devices and to see to it that this is also implemented through an internationally recognised environmental quality seal, which also takes into account the fine dust emissions. That would be very important. With regard to these devices, I have to say one thing: The whole is a small part of the emissions in Austria, only two and a half percent of the Austrian emissions that are emitted. This would have to be substantially extended to other things, too, because in 2005 the industry in Austria emitted more than 35 percent of emissions, transport 21 percent, agriculture 21 percent, and small-consumer combustion plants in the homes 21.5 percent. So this proportion is relatively small; I think you should leave the church in the village. One should, of course, look at health and introduce this seal of goodness, but also use a study that already exists.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28974	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Knoll. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e28995	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At best I see no reason to downplay the problem. On the other hand, it has just succeeded in removing children's children's toys, which are dangerous to health, which are produced in China, from the market. This is about devices that we prefer most to be on the desk, so that they are only one handle far away, because it is more comfortable and because you want to quickly print out something, whether at work or at home. We all know this. The laser printer is almost part of it today and is extremely practical, no question. He's just being used completely uncaptured – and that's the problem. But how does that look from the other perspective? Is this much-used device really as harmless as it is to be used? Or does it perhaps hide quite some health risks that do not hurt at all at first, but do they have consequences? – Only that these questions are open and that one does not have a clear answer, this alone shows that there is a need for action, because various investigations always come to quite different, contradictory results. This has to make it lightly and shows the need for action. Now it is time for this, and that is why the technology is now so advanced – that it is not so long – that you have also developed finer methods for measuring these nanoparticles, of which you simply do not know how high the damage potential for health is actually. You can and you have to catch up now. I believe that consumers not only have a right to learn about the issues of any health risk, but also have a right to objective product comparisons based on highest scientific data. In particular, they have a right and a right to protection against health-damaging factors at work. That is why risk research needs to be carried on and, as Federal Minister Buchinger has already said, an Austrian study is being prepared in order to launch concrete measures based on facts of first quality, which are truly in line with the high demands of modern consumer protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29040	The next speaker is Mr Rädler. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29062	Mr President. Federal Minister! I think it has now been very comprehensively reported on the discussions in the Consumer Protection Committee. We have found a common procedure. But, Mr Vilimsky, I think we should confess that we also want to achieve success at international level, and work out a certification such as the “blue angel” in Germany. It would, of course, be very appealing now to refer to Mr Westenthaler's strict list. But because of the hour ahead, I do not want to go into the nanoparticles of Austrian domestic policy, BZÖ, in connection with the discussion on fine dust and nanoparticles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29089	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 407 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 62.) [[00:04:12]] 20. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment No 488/A(E) by Mrs Laura Rudas, Mr Silvia Fuhrmann, ladies and gentlemen, on a ban on ‘Mosquito Sound System’ in Austria (408 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29141	We reach the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs Rudas. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29172	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly for those who have not looked so closely at this request: It is about a kind of dog pipe that has a tone that is unbearable by siren signal only for children and young people up to 25 years old. It serves to chase children and young people out of public space. I can be relatively brief, because I was pleased that this request was unanimous in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and that there was no discussion, because it was somehow out of the question that this should not be in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – colleague, I know it's a bit late, but still: Listen for a minute. I am pleased that there is agreement on social policy that children, no matter how loud they are, must belong to our society and not be chased away, whether they have eaten something. I only hope that this feeling you felt in your stomach when you read the request will occur again in the future and that this will be dealt with so unanimously when it comes, for example, to young people who have become criminal, that they too should not be chased, no matter where. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: On the contrary!]] That is, every time children and young people are used as a political target in the future, I will remind you again, ladies and gentlemen, of this feeling you have in voting today. I hope that you will get this feeling again and again there will reign unity. Finally, I must say this to colleagues from the ÖVP: I think we all get enough gage that you too can just listen patiently to a young woman here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29220	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. A minute of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29242	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you can listen patiently to a woman who has been living in the world for a long time. "Mosquito Sound Systems" are acoustic weapons to keep young people away from places they are not desirable. I think that noise pollution is at all a problem today, sometimes also the noise level here in this Chamber. I am pleased that there is this joint proposal – also on the part of the ÖVP has been worked here – and that everyone agrees together, and I wish you all a good morning!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29272	The next speaker is Mrs Hradecsni. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29293	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We've heard it already: The "Mosquito Sound System" is a device that is intended to drive children and young people away through a high frequency tone that over 25-year-olds no longer perceive, however, that is perceived by children and young people as so unpleasant or painful that they have to leave the sounded area. Apart from the fact that this device, or the signal it sends, is by no means undisputed against the claims of dealers in health, from my point of view, it throws a terrifying picture on our society. [[Call the ÖVP:Lei lei!]] This device is immediately distributed via the Internet with a list of recommendations where it is successfully applicable. There, it is called an acoustic weapon against disturbing children. That is, we are already using weapons, and be it just acoustic, against our children. Fortunately, this device is still relatively expensive, it costs about 750 €. Then the acquisition will be rethinked. The use would hardly be limited. In order to enjoy the well deserved lunchtime, the device is switched on, and the breathing, because playing children in the neighboring garden are also already distributed. Instead of giving young people and children much-needed space, they are being driven out! Young people who are already so often discredited as comrades, criminals and generally as a peace of mind... – Thank you! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner:... keep the speech even quieter!]] [[Abg. Grill: It's good now!]] It's really amazing with which courtesy is handled here with one. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's how we're stopped!]] I know it's late, but I'm going to continue now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This may also concern you, gentlemen: There is usually a lack of places where young people can meet each other. The Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities are urgently called upon to give young people the opportunity to do so. For example, I just need to think about my own community, a small town in the Waldviertel. There young people have to meet in public places such as parks and children's playgrounds and are usually indescribable. However, far and wide they have no other space available, and the willingness of the local authorities to change that tends against zero. Coming to the end: I am very glad that here... – So I am really amazed! [[Abg. Grillisch: That's great!]] That's incredible. [[Call to the ÖVP: Speak aloud, colleague!]] I think I'm talking loud enough. I am very glad that there is consensus here in the house – even if it is hardly possible – that the use of the “Mosquito Sound System” in Austria is to be prohibited. In general, I consider it extremely worrying to offer products that discriminate against certain groups of people, no matter what.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29405	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29427	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we reject the Freedom Party of this “Mosquito Sound System”. It's a mistake to play noise against noise. On the other hand, this issue may be more serious, and I know that at one time or another at this time there is a desire to get this to mind. Only why do citizens proceed to such an emergency measure, such a means? – You have to see that we have the problem that the executive has failed. For noise, damage to property, vandalism, these are problems that we are particularly concerned with in the municipalities. What are we doing about it? – It is certainly wrong to confront young people with any noise systems. That's a mistake. On the one hand, young people are seen as consumers, which is important. For this to happen, he needs to be able to buy his big Mac from McDonald’s, where the young people should be able to gather. But if they want to go somewhere in peace of mind, they may even be a nuisance sometime. These systems are also used against them, and there is experience from Switzerland. It can be noted from media reports that “harmless” youths have been really swept away from places – under quotation marks. I don't think it can be our goal to face young people in this way. What we need is definitely not a “Mosquito Sound System”, but we need a well-functioning executive. For this, the taxpayer also pays his taxes that he remains spared from noise, vandalism and property damage. But we certainly do not need any useless systems in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29466	Mr Buchinger spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29487	Thank you very much, Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I welcome the unanimous approval of this request, which aims at a ban on this “Mosquito Sound System” in Austria. I can tell you that you are asking the Minister of Consumer Protection, together with the other relevant ministries, to take appropriate steps. Following an initial review, the Product Safety Act does not allow for a corresponding step by the Minister of Consumer Protection from today’s point of view, because there is no indication of health damage caused by this “Mosquito Sound System”. Accordingly, from today's point of view, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour has no right to take action, for example, on the grounds of the electrotechnical provisions. But I did on the 11th. In January 2008, a request was sent to the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service, whether it is not due to violations of the Rules of Basic Law, because it is very indifferent to a whole group of persons, and in any case also because of the excitement of a public nuisance due to noise – which cannot be perceived by all but yet by a group of people – is a possibility for a failure. A corresponding answer is not yet available. As soon as it is available, it will be evaluated and I will take the appropriate steps together with the relevant ministers. At the time, I would like to thank the House for its suggestion to examine this question, the ‘Mosquito Sound System’, with regard to legal possibilities and, in any case, to prohibit it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29521	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29542	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The sale and distribution of the “Mosquito Sound System” is to be banned in Austria. We from the BZÖ are also in favour because there should simply be no devices aimed at young people and children. But, Federal Minister, the inventor of this “Mosquito Sound System” has released a new product. This is a ringtone that is not heard in classrooms by teachers and adults, but only by young people. What is often to the detriment of young people is to the advantage of doing so, and if anything is banned, that must also be prohibited. That too must be said.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29571	The next speaker is Mr Voller. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29593	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dolinschek, when you stand out here and talk – and I am grateful for our common opinion – I am as good as the Consumer Protection Committee. There, even at a normal time of day, your statements were not quite understandable. But I would like to return now to the theme “Mosquito Sound System”. In my opinion, behind the very harmless and obnoxious expression “Mosquito Sound System” is a perfid business idea hidden. Between 16 and 18 kilohertz, which is broadcast out, sounds can be heard for children, young people and young adults up to about 25 years old, which are no longer audible to adults. The idea behind this is simply to free places, parks, other areas freely accessible to the public from this age group of up to 25 or from young people in general, so to speak. The manufacturer advertises on the Internet, he speaks of protection against youth gangs. Due to the unpleasant tone, the objective and purpose of this product are also achieved, namely to drive out children and young people. Sales over the Internet enable the purchase anonymously and also the subsequent use. I would like to ask myself, in general, the question: Where does this development cease? Which age group is next? What will happen to us in the future? What means will be used to exclude or exclude another age group or group of people tomorrow or the day after tomorrow? I think that the whole state of the law is extremely worrying, and I am pleased that this matter has come across consensus among all the political groups in the House. That is why I would like to thank all the members of the Consumer Protection Committee, but also all the political groups, for the possibility, as with many materials in the Consumer Protection Committee, of bringing about a five-party agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29630	The next speaker is Mr Hörl. A minute of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29651	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! It is not a voluntary time limit of one minute, but I agree with our agreement; my clubman has granted me a minute's speaking time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't think it's all right if Dr. Haimbuchner, Grazurdauer and singers back there, at the top of the last row, talk about us when we talk for a minute. That's a cut-off! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Yes!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] They ask urgent questions using minority rights, but do not hold to speaking times – and then come out and say that these are “statistical speaking times”, and make further jokes of this kind. Stop it! You should consider whether you should not use the “Mosquito Sound System” here – and of course we have the problem that you’re all too old and wouldn’t hear it anyway. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] By the way, I also believe that this “Mosquito Sound System” – now you listen, you didn’t listen before! – with the dignity of our young people, with respect for youth and with love for our children is not compatible and therefore rejected. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29725	The next speaker is Mrs Ablinger. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29746	Mr President. I also think that the House should not be disasterized with such interlocutory reports. In the light of the debate this morning, I do not think this is appropriate in terms of the dignity of the House. I would like to address a point that this Swiss company is applying to this device. She contends with the argument that it is an harmless solution to a modern civilisation problem. So children as a modern civilisation problem – but hello! So it is on the website where you can buy it anonymously, as it has been said. The question is: What's the point? Spirit behind that? What kind of animosity is behind that? In the meantime, 3 300 such devices have already been sold. You don't know exactly how many of them are already in Austria. The problem is that it succeeds, and this is also the reason why we want to ban it and are happy when there is the appropriate answer as far as the constitutional concerns are concerned, to allow everyone to drive children at any time he wants to do so with a remote control. The device can also be hidden behind grids. The user decides if he doesn't want to have children somewhere, pushes on the button and they have to leave because they just don't stand it. The fact that we are proposing a bar to this today is crucial to me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29777	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I would ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat, because we are now voting. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 408 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. This has been adopted unanimously. (E 63.) [[00:21:31]] 21. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 1 to 16, 19 to 21 and 23 as well as the Citizens' Initiatives No. 1 to 11, 13 and 14 (369 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29828	We'll get to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Weinzinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's 0.20 now! [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] And that is exactly what I feared when I read what we are planning today to do, that is to say, the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, at midnight or after midnight, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am here. I am less concerned with the petitions, because there is a Member behind them who has the opportunity to carry on this, and I am less concerned about those citizens' initiatives that have at least been passed on to the committees so that they can be dealt with there. I am concerned that citizens' initiatives are simply done this way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are so many citizens' initiatives that I absolutely do not stand on, which are deeply unsympathetic to me, but in a democracy everyone must have the right that, if there is already the possibility of the citizens' initiatives, and if there is also a parliamentary committee, which is actually being treated properly – and not at 0.20, when there is no human being and those who have made citizens' initiatives, can no longer be there! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] At this time, they can't be here anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, we must come to an agreement here. My speech now is nothing but a call to consider how to really treat it better. In the case of citizens' initiatives, not all those who are not referred to committees should be buried here, but one should actually plan an afternoon to hear an afternoon when the initiators have the opportunity to listen to what – we should not avoid too much of the parliamentary principle – at least one of the parliamentarians from this committee is obliged to talk about this initiative, for which there is only one opinion per group each. [[keeps the collection report up-to-date]] [[Abg. Strache: Maybe even here could talk!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Could you not make this up before?]] Then our citizens would notice that we pay attention to them that we take seriously their initiatives, which have often signed 5,000, 6,000 or more people. Ladies and gentlemen! I repeat: Not all that is required in it is approved by me. There are things I deeply reject. For example, there is a requirement that you should not smoke at all. I am an enthusiastic smoker and therefore reject it. But you should talk about it. That is why we have a democratic system, which is what it is about, and that is why I ask you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29933	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e29955	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Worm itself is an initiative!]] Mr Westenthaler! Now I'll tell you one thing: Today, this collective report is the last item on the agenda. I hope that you will then also agree, all of you here, that in the next collective report of the citizens' initiatives and petitions, that is the item on the agenda 1, I hope you will do so. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you had agreed to change the agenda!]] I hope so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We wanted that today, but you voted against it!]] You, who are now discovering the citizens' initiatives and petitions, I ask you: What have you done in the last seven years? Where have you been in the last seven years? I recall requests made by me as chairman, whether to allow citizens' initiatives from 16 years of age, such as legislative initiatives for this committee, the so-called §-27 proposals, the possibility of introducing an electronic citizens' initiative, or the fact that citizens' initiatives do not expire after the end of a legislative period, but continue to exist. . All of this is now in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I hope that it will be dealt with soon and that, as you have all had the opportunity to do so in the last seven years, the various initiatives will only be comforted again. You've approved this a few times! Mr Deputies, then Klubobmann Scheibner! You said: Let's wait for the Convention, let's wait for the Constitutional Convention! For seven years we waited. I hope that we will now spend a lot in our new constellation. And one thing we have already managed, for example, to set up a committee of public prosecutors' affairs, and that is a good thing and serves democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have held four meetings, and there is a collective report. I also hope – and this is now my last sentence on this collection report – and believe that it would be good for us to make several collective reports when so many initiatives are launched. Then we also have the opportunity to discuss it more often. I've already noticed this morning: It's a concern to all of you. I won't fail, we won't fail. I hope you will support us in the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30035	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30057	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I don't think it can be said often enough how important it is in a democracy that people can actively contribute to politics with their ideas and concerns. I experience daily in my constituency that people come and ask for advice and help because it is our task as elected People's representatives to use us for their solutions. However, there must also be the possibility for people to turn directly to Parliament, i.e. to the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives and Petitions. I think that's just very important. Since there are many citizens' initiatives among them, which have been signed by thousands of people, it is simply essential to have a serious discussion about this, so talk about it and discuss it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has been working for a year now. At that time, 28 petitions and 18 citizens' initiatives were brought in and processed, and I thank the committee president, Mrs Mag. Worm, which is very much trying to make a consensus again and again in the further treatment of inputs. One of the concerns raised was the opening of business on Sundays, which was the subject of two citizens' initiatives, but of which interestingly opposed opinions were expressed. While the trade union of private workers opposes an extension of the opening hours, the Member of Parliament asked Zach from the Liberal Forum or, better said, from the SPÖ Club exactly the opposite. He was the first signatory to a citizens' initiative to open business on Sundays and public holidays. Both citizens' initiatives could be completed by taking note of the fact that the opening times had already been re-regulated and by 1. In a certain context, Januarys were extended and flexibilised. On Sundays, however, there will continue to be no opening up of business, and I and myself also the People's Party, because this day should be a day for the family in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will continue to deal responsibly with the concerns of citizens in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30102	Mrs Haidlmayr's next speech. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30123	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to confine myself to a few essential petitions in this debate on the joint report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. One of them is the petition concerning the preservation of the Jewish cemetery in Währing. The point was that the Jewish cemetery in Währing is in sight and there is no one who feels responsible for the proper restoration of this cemetery because it is also one of the few cemeterys that have been built in the Biedermeier style. This wilder, perishes, the trees are too large, and neither the Federation nor the Land of Vienna feel ready to take on responsibility and to preserve this jewel, which is also part of our history. [[Abg. Strache: A shame that the Vienna city government has let it go!]] It hurts me in my heart that this petition was simply taken note of, that is, it was a funeral of the first class, because nothing will happen again. I believe that Austria has a responsibility, and this responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, is not realized in this case, although it would be urgently necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second petition, which is important to me, concerns the situation of deaf people. As you know, there is a group of people with disabilities who are both blind and deaf. This group of people with disabilities is nowhere. They do not belong to the group of blind people and they do not belong to the group of deaf people. In order to strengthen the self-confidence of these persons and thus also to know where they belong and how to name themselves, they demand the recognition of their disability as their own category, namely as the disability deaf. We have allocated this petition to the Constitutional Committee, particularly by parents of these people who have grown up, and I ask you to act here, the representatives of the Constitutional Committee, and this group of people – not many, there are no more than 600 or 700 in Austria – to grant these people their own disability. Nor is it an Austrian solution alone, but it is also an appeal to the EU to recognise people who are visually handicapped and deaf as an independent group. This appeal is also addressed to Austria, and Austria is invited to act. Again, my request: Fill this desire and allow these people with their disabilities as an independent group, because that strengthens them in their personality, and they finally know where they belong. They don't know yet. I would like to mention a citizens' initiative that is very important to me, which is a citizens' initiative from Lower Austria. It comes from the Danube area, i.e. Stärgberg, Waldsee, and this is about the new sport of water biking. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mrs. Colleague! What's that?]] I don't know if you know it, Waterbike. There are electric vehicles like wild on lakes and rivers. First of all, this gives some crazy dirt and, on the other hand, a crazy noise, so that the people who live there just don't have peace on weekends when this sport is practiced. There has just been a group that has strongly expressed its support for a ban on water bikes. This citizens' initiative has been allocated to the Transport Committee. In my opinion, the country of Lower Austria has already been called on the plan and has banned this waterbike on the Danube, and people can now spend their weekend and their leisure time in peace. This shows very clearly: If people are committed to their project and if policies are willing to take the interests of citizens seriously, improvements can also be achieved for these people, and this citizens' initiative is proof of this. [[Abg. Riedler: Pröll!]] General to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiative: I'd like us to meet more often. We met exactly three times, actually four times, but once that was just the constitution, that was a matter of five minutes, then it was done again. Above all, I am also concerned that we no longer have so many thoughts, that is to say, in practical terms: Get away from the petition or citizens' initiative, but at least we are willing to assign it to a committee. Sometimes it would also be good if there were a recommendation from the Committee, what should happen to this petition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30195	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30219	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, I will try to be brief, but given the fact that we are discussing a joint report from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, I must say: This report contains 20 petitions and 13 citizens' initiatives. Mrs Wurm! I am of your opinion if you wish that this should be dealt with under item 1 next time, but I would also like to see individual citizens' initiatives and petitions treated individually, or at least summarized, as they fit together, because it is the only way for citizens to address their concerns directly to Parliament. And that they are also discussed here that this will be dealt with, the population is expecting – and not, as is now being done. There is exactly the political starkness in the population, because it is said: They are not here at the top anyway, the high politics out there in Vienna in the Parliament, they only sleep all the time and are not present. That's exactly what you know. It's exactly what's being done to us over and over again. And so you shouldn't treat people because they're doing something. This is their concern that they make a petition or a citizens' initiative, and we should take it seriously. [[Abg. May. Worm: We take it seriously!]] I am not yet completely convinced of your opinion, Mrs Worm, for I have missed one today: You should have voted in favour of the objection debate if you already believe that this should be done simply. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Grillitsch, if you stop me less, I'll be done faster! .. [[New calls to the ÖVP]] I have sent a petition to the National Council, a unanimous resolution of the Carinthian Landtag. In this, the complete Carinthian Landtag unanimously advocates that the cancellation protection for apprentices is not softened. So far, it has actually been the case that the apprentice could only be terminated during the trial period and if a valid reason such as theft or distance from the workplace and so on is available. The Government Programme for XXIII. The legislative period provides, under the chapter “Youth Employment/Teachers”, for the introduction of a mutual termination option, i.e. a one-month notice period at the end of the first and second academic years. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the following question: In the case of a strong promotion in the first year of teaching, apprentices will then be cancelled more after the first year of teaching. - Isn't it? This danger is here, of course. And how is that? Should the promotion of apprenticeships, which has been paid out, also be repaid, or not? Will you take this into account? – Some questions are still open. The next point I would like to deal with here is the citizens' initiative, which has been presented to the National Council for a collection of the mother tongue in Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen, only with such a survey will it be possible to establish the actual strength of the Slovenian minority in Carinthia. And that is also argued. The results of the parent-language survey should then be used as a basis – and not as now the language of use, because there is some distortion. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is how we can finally proceed properly, because today we have a range with the minority: Are there 25 percent in a village or a community? Is it 15 or 20 percent? - Actually, no one knows. This would actually be a solution to the Carinthian question of a minority determination, and then, after that, no matter how many percent you agree, it would be 15 percent, 20 percent, whether it be 18 percent, or 25 percent – where the corresponding minority share is given, provide bilingual local names. Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer said we are making a solution in the Carinthian local panel issue in the constitutional rank – now or never. He said that already in the summer of 2007, and now we are already next year. So far, nothing has happened in principle. There you are! I would also like to say the following: At the time when we were responsible for government, the bilingual kindergartens were promoted by the federal government, and now this has been set up by the Federal Chancellery! What do you say? – This is anti-minority, but the Carinthian government pays the amount from its own pocket for bilingual kindergartens. Letter They appreciate this behind the ears, Ladies and gentlemen, and tell your Chancellor how he acts against minorities!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30290	The next speaker is Mr Steier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30312	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since Mr Dolinschek has now helped us all to listen attentively again, I can very briefly devote myself to the initiative “Safe to School”. This initiative shows the important role of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives as an instrument of direct participation of the population. Nearly 10,000 people from several federal states have supported the concern for greater safety in the school bus by amending the counting rule with its signature. As the citizens' initiative could not be dealt with during the last legislative period, I have raised the issue as a petition. Thanks to the willingness of Transport Minister Faymann to cooperate, it will become 1. September 2008 at least in the field of daily on-the-spot traffic in the school bus the implementation of the 1:1 counting rule – that is, a seat and thus a safety belt per child. I would therefore like to take advantage of today's debate on the 369 supplementary report and thank all those who have contributed to supporting this petition. At the same time, I hope that we will also find a new regulation in the implementation of the road transport system with regard to overland buses and thus ensure this implementation. – A warm thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30352	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Eder. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30373	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have just heard that a petition contained in the collective report has already been completed: the change in the numbering rule in school buses in the on-the-spot traffic. In principle, a very welcome measure, both from the point of view of students and parents as well as from the communities. It is about the safety of children, not least of children in rural areas. However, this measure also costs money, and the additional costs should be borne by FLAF. I hope that this will eventually be comprehensible in the implementing regulations and, above all, that the additional costs will not be borne by the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30401	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30422	Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps a few comments on the reform proposals. Mrs Wurm, you have made some good proposals; we are waiting urgently for this treatment. [[Abg. May. Worm: Applications are these!]] – There are proposals and proposals, but the following, I believe, is indispensable: That the Committee itself, the Committee on Petitions and its participants will free itself from an all too close focus on things. Citizens expect them – and this is also part of the treatment of their concerns – to receive genuinely serious opinions from the competent authorities. We experience time and again that the government groups reject the collection of opinions with very clear arguments. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'd really ask you to go inside once. This is also a part where we do not yet need a reform of the Rules of Procedure, but where we should take these things very seriously in our work. One point that is clear is that petitions should be passed on to the next legislative period if they have not yet been finally treated. I welcome the petition on the participation rights of the people in the re-establishment of mobile phone masts and the adoption of a limit value by the federal government. This petition has been filed. We have had a four-party petition in the last legislative period. Minister Gorbach, the then responsible, has done nothing, and now this petition has been filed again. Ladies and gentlemen, I really hope we come to a solution here! This is a concern that is being experienced and suffered by thousands of citizens throughout Austria, and it is now quite clear that there are obstacles. Today, we have talked about fine dust exposure from laser devices, such as laser printers. If we look at this problem – that is, the radiation pollution of the population – then we have to take it seriously, and it is high time that the necessary steps were finally taken. I would like to comment briefly on a citizens' initiative. It has already been addressed, namely the issue of the Sunday opening or the Citizens' Initiative “Employee Pestition Trade”. In this case, I believe that the trade union has made a very clear and understandable argument for the maintenance of the work-free Sunday. I think these are very important things, not only for the protection of employees in companies, but also for social policy reasons not only related to family life, but also for making it clear that policy needs to set a framework for the primacy of consumption to be interrupted. This is also a part of freedom and of liberalism to be preserved, and I therefore found this citizens' initiative to be particularly important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30475	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30496	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a petition that concerns my constituency. It has already been introduced by us in the last legislative period a motion for a resolution on the removal of the double toe in the Lungau, but unfortunately no solution has been submitted. Like the Pyrn, the Karawanken and the Brenner motorway and the Arlberg highway, the Tauern motorway is still affected by a so-called double toad. Since the subject has not been dealt with or has not been completed until today, this Lungauer toll theme has been brought back to the High House by means of a petition to be treated again. It is clear that cost-intensive routes need to be financed, and the Tauern motorway is part of such a route with the sections mentioned above. The fact that tunnel and bridge construction sections cause more construction and maintenance costs is probably undisputed. It must also be pointed out, however, that people in the Lungauer region are economically disadvantaged, and therefore the problem could be solved at least in so far as compensation payments are being made, for example – of course, in agreement with the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my concern here in Parliament to pay particular attention to the fact that the Lungau is from the outset disadvantaged by its topography and that there are no escape routes such as a rail link. In my opinion, it is absolutely necessary to help the region by reducing this burden. As mentioned above, there are no alternatives to economic disadvantages in the Lungau. I believe that, following the opinion of the Ministry of Transport, the further procedure needs to be established and an appropriate solution for this disadvantaged region must be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30536	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30558	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to confine myself to the issue of legathenia. Two citizens' initiatives are affected. The background is as follows: The concerns of these citizens' initiatives were already addressed in 2006. There was then a meeting in May 2007, organized by the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. As a result of this meeting, appropriate measures will now be put in place, including in the Healthy School project. Some of these demands are now to be met. Legathenia is a read-write weakness or read-write disorder that is often very difficult to diagnose. That is why it is sometimes not treated accordingly. The fact is that in the past children and adolescents with legathenia have failed to have higher education. They were very intelligent – that is often the case – but they were stigmatized as stupid and lazy. That's supposed to be the past. Effective action is to be taken to get a proper early diagnosis and to help children early.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30591	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30612	Mr President. High house! Since I have heard that some of the discussions have led to the fact that it would be more useful to discuss this important issue of petitions and citizens' initiatives during the day, I would like to express my opinion that every committee or committee member has the same right. We should consider a change in our business regulations, because we are putting ourselves on something if we sit here from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the morning of the next day. Let us consider whether we will not finish at 5 p.m. and put a more day before that. – We should consider this, Mr Klubobmann! [[As a result of the SPÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] In my speech, however, I would like to refer briefly to the petition 7, in which – I would like to say almost – it is about the infinite history of the expansion of the Bruck station – in addition to the Graz Central Railway Station, which is probably the most important railway node in Styria. Already in March 1998, that is, ten years ago, it was decided within the framework of the then train station offensive of redevelopment and expansion. There was even an architectural competition at the time. The winner was awarded. But unfortunately, one has to say, due to the change of government in 2001 the expansion and conversion has been reduced. I'm sorry because it's really about the most important transit station on the South Railway. Thank God it is also surprising that the Minister, Faymann, who is now responsible, has recognized the urgency of this station reconstruction and has now also taken this petition to force the planning to be completed in the next few days shortly after his accession. The Brucker station will be built and rebuilt, which will then also be barrier-free. I thank Minister Faymann on behalf of the 65 000 inhabitants of the district.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30667	The next speaker is Mr Pack. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30688	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe it is beyond dispute that the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is important through its direct contact with the population. I think it is also very important that we discuss it. Mr Spindelberger has already taken a good approach when it comes to the agenda. It cannot be that we have nine “winner hours” at our disposal, and five hours of which also block the opposition with special actions. We need to talk about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] Such a committee report certainly deserves to be discussed at another time of the day. But, ladies and gentlemen, we also have to pack ourselves in the kick. It should not then be said that petitions and citizens' initiatives are being discussed, which are brought by representatives, in particular, on certain electoral dates, when it comes to receiving a letter castle or bus stop somewhere, because this would not be in the interest of so many citizens' initiatives that are really behind their intentions. It has been seen that the initiative in Graz of then Deputy Mayor Ferk did not contribute to an election outcome. So we take care of these initiatives, which come from the citizens, then we have an even better framework to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30737	The next speaker is Mr Keck. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30759	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with 20 petitions, 13 citizens' initiatives in this collective report, and we have heard from all the speakers that this committee is very important. I should like to use the 40 minutes remaining speaking time of my group to address all 20 petitions and 13 citizens' initiatives in detail, because it is really important, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] I was really very careful when I was sitting in my place. I have noticed the importance of these petitions and citizens' initiatives at the noise level in this House. It has really been taken care of by every speaker he has made. Ladies and gentlemen, if this committee is so important, the individual Members should also pay attention to and listen to what citizens in our country want when they bring petitions and citizens' initiatives, and understand what is being done by Members. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not, of course, take advantage of the 40 minutes of speaking time, but I will only address a petition which has already been brought into this committee for the second time, namely the petition “YES! to the quality of the living! No! to truck-duration parking in the residential area!’. It is a problem that is really being debated by many citizens. This problem arises because there has been a law since the 1960s that allows trucks to park 25 meters from residential areas. This problem arises because the truck drivers who park their trucks there, at 2 p.m., 3 p.m. in the early morning, run their trucks warm for an hour so that, as they say, hydraulic brakes can be put back into operation, and so on and so on. This distance should be increased by law to more than 25 meters. This petition had already been in the Committee on Petitions and was assigned to the Committee on Transport for a long time, but could not be dealt with there because the legislative period was over – and therefore had to be reintroduced again. I have already said in the collective report during the last legislative period that it must be possible in this House to end petitions and citizens' initiatives – not to be dealt with by the end of a legislative period, but really to be dealt with by the Committee, to be dealt with by bodies, and then to the citizens what has come out. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Bitch.]] I think – it is the clubmen of the parties who are present – that this issue should be addressed. They are quick to take up and amend their Rules of Procedure so that, at least during this legislative period, petitions and citizens' initiatives after the end of the legislative period, when they are not finished, will no longer be able to pass their validity and be reintroduced again.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30837	The next speaker is Mr Obernoster. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30858	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of Carinthia: ‘Carinthian petition for a collection of the mother tongue’. We know that this issue was discussed in the Committee and took note of it. We know that the commitment to the Slovenian mother tongue is far from a commitment to the political belonging of the ethnic groups. We have all the facts on the table: the census of 2001, the municipal elections with the Slovenian lists. In 2006 German Chancellor Schüssel introduced the Karner compromise paper here in the Hohe Haus, which had the consent of all the Carinthian parties, also the consent of the head of the Carinthian state, the consent of the Carinthian home associations and the Slovenian representatives. This was rejected here in the House. The At the time Klubobmann Gusenbauer and the SPÖ did not vote in favour, so this is still open today. [[Aha-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP is still standing on this Karner compromise paper. We also hope that the head of state of Carinthia is still standing on this paper. We also believe that German chancellor Gusenbauer knows today that there is actually no better compromise. This would finally be the subject of the table and done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30901	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30922	Mr President. High house! It has already been sounded several times today: Any of these initiatives, any petition, any citizens' initiative would really deserve that we give it a proper appreciation. We know how difficult it is to get ready to obtain signatures, to stand up and to join the people with a concern to actually transport and bring this concern to Parliament through the collection of signatures. Therefore, every initiative deserves our compliment and appreciation, including from the Freedom Party. That's living democracy. This is direct democracy that we must support and promote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would therefore be very important and very useful for us to take time to discuss these initiatives much earlier. What citizens' initiative actually has time to attend a debate at 1 o'clock in the early days and follow up this debate? – I think that needs to be organized much better. This would also contribute much more to the added interest of citizens in policy in order to contribute more directly and directly. But if, at 1 o'clock in the morning, we are trying to deal with this debate very quickly, excluding the public, with the exclusion of the dedicated citizens' initiatives, which have made a great deal of time and commitment to it, I regret that, especially as many interesting and important initiatives are involved. [[Abg. May. Worm: Ten times more citizens' initiatives than 2000!]] When I look at this: For example, it is about ensuring comprehensive postal services for the Austrians. This is a massive indication of the need to stop the thinning of rural areas. There have already been initiatives by Parliament, including from us, the Freedom Party, initiatives that we must continue to provide the rural area with postal services. We find ourselves here, and these topics are discussed at a time of day, during which the citizens' initiatives also have time to participate and to remember and see that we are dealing with this issue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At any rate from the Freedom Party to all initiatives compliment, honor and respect! And I am looking for this instrument of direct democracy to be upgraded in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30969	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Muttons. I would like to make you aware of this. It is important to note that Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure states that only the claim to be corrected, which represents the right thing to do, is not a political one, and that in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e30998	Mr President. Mr Obernosterer claimed that the Slovenian representatives had agreed to the proposal by Federal Chancellor Schüssel. This is not the case, but they did not agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31042	The next speaker is Mr Lutz Weinzinger. Second word. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31066	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am very, very pleasantly surprised that this topic also takes your interest at this late time. I am most pleasantly surprised that you all believe that the people's voice, whether about petitions or citizens' initiatives, must be taken seriously. Let me ask you a question: Then why do we not hear the voice of the people in the EU reform treaty? Why don't we vote on this? – But this is a Ceterum censeo, which I have now said. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to express something else. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a member of a persecuted minority. - Point one. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Point two: I was up to the 1st. Last September, an enthusiastic train driver. You won't be very interested, but I'm at home in Schärding am Inn, and Vienna is about 300 kilometres away. To drive to Vienna by car is stupid, that's what you should do with the train. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] But the Bundesbahn is making my life angry. And not that I couldn't stand these ridiculous three hours without a cigarette – but I'm a powerful citizen! I cannot, please, let the Bundesbahn, which has anything but a health authority to be, prohibit me from smoking a cigarette on the journey to Vienna and back. [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] What are you doing? What's the point?I'm asking you about where it would be easiest there, because you only need to identify two or three cars as a smoker's car. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] There's no need for non-smokers to get in there! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore thank my friend Dr. Martin Graf – now he has become an even better friend to me – who has brought in this petition. But if we were not to talk about it, this petition would have sunk in this “peaceyard ” and would have been gone. Let's talk about it! Perhaps Minister Faymann, at least as the owner of the Bundesbahn, can insist that for the few poor, persecuted smokers, one might be – it doesn't have to be the most comfortable cars – attached to one or another smoker car. I would be very grateful to you for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31132	Mr Klubobmann Ing spoke. Westenthaler. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31159	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I won't talk 15 minutes, but it was a test of how seriously you still take it, now at 1.10 a.m. in the morning. – Yes, Mr. Cot stupid, Klubobmann Schüssel, Klubobmann Strache, Klubobmann Cap – the fourth sleeps already – you all prevented it! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful:... Agenda item!]] [[Further calls.]] You rejected our proposal at the President's sitting. Now everyone was sorry. Lutz Weinzinger comes out for the second time and laments that we are discussing this at this time. Mrs Wurm is sorry about this. Right that we are only discussing this now, because their petition is also on it. [[Abg. May. Worm: I don’t “pity” at all! That's your expression!]] It is also criticised by the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen from the other parties! It was your clubmen, bowls, shackles and cap that prevented these petitions from being discussed in the morning as agenda item 2, as we wanted. [[Abg. Street: And the club director of the BZÖ!]] You have rejected it in the Presidential, which is why you bear the responsibility. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Come now Don't go out and don't cry! Now, at once, you are opposed to this being negotiated so late. There has been a debate on the agenda today in the morning. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: What about the BZÖ club director? Forget it!]] And what happened, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, Mr. Klubobmann Strache and Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel? – All of you have rejected the objection that the petitions, the citizens’ initiatives will be discussed at an early stage – including your colleague, Mrs Wurm! [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] So now, 10 minutes after 1 o'clock in the morning, we are already a little tired of the “Mosquito Sound System” and some laser printers, because it was all more important than the petitions and citizens’ initiatives – and suddenly the big cat-jammer, for each individual who has run in the citizens’ initiatives, comes up with a signature. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But what you are spreading is not...!]] We know how difficult it is to collect signatures for a citizens' initiative. There are often people who travel day and night for their concern. This concerns you here in the House – Mr Cap, just you! - with feet. They step with feet, no, not only that, they are also making fun of these petitions and citizens' initiatives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] They are responsible for the fact that we are now discussing them in the early morning hours, where people are no longer interested – that is why we can no longer address the details. I'll hold on to this. We from the BZÖ were the only ones who said at the beginning of the agenda – we also demand it for the next time – and we were in favour of discussing the petitions and citizens' initiatives in the course of a live television broadcast, which in turn Klubobmann Cap, Klubobmann Strache and Klubobmann Schüssel did not allow this live television broadcast that you shot. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The executive body, Mrs Pre-Pagetin Prammer, then carried out censorship, strangled it and ultimately prohibited the ORF from transferring. But I don't want to make any more of this. I do not go into the details of the petitions that it would be worth: Child protection, violence against children is being fought here in a petition. Yeah, that's inside, too. More safety for Graz, introduced by SPÖ. There may be more security for Graz now, because there is less SPÖ in Graz, so there may be more security, that can be already. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] All petitions counted together, all citizens' initiatives, all signatures counted together, are even more signatorys than you had any votes in Graz. But that's another chapter. Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, Mr Klubobmann Cap and Mr Klubobmann Strache I will give you an evening lecture, a night lecture so that they can think about what happened here in the House in the early morning. That's from a totally unwarranted witness. The daily “Der Standard” is not a BZÖ paper, you can’t claim it. The editor-in-chief of the “standard” there writes many, many comments in which she criticizes us and also our policies, sometimes also rightly, I admit. But what she writes in tomorrow's issue is very interesting; perhaps you have already read it, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. Ms Alexandra Föderl-Schmid, the editor-in-chief of the “Standard”, wrote an editorial entitled “An Attack on Press Freedom”, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. You should read that out today before you go to sleep. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] She writes: "The delegates are the representatives of the people. But the people must not watch when representatives of the people do their job. The ORF was denied the transfer of the care debate after the current hour from the National Council because there was a risk that the BZÖ would present other concerns. So what?’ says the editor-in-chief. And on top of that: “This is living parliamentaryism. With the BZÖ arguments you can and must deal with yourself politically. Just forbid the ORF to stop the live broadcast on the two session days” and not allow this, which is actually not possible, she writes. It is a “restriction of freedom of the press in Austria. It is by the elected representatives of the people. And this is in a city in which the IPI, the International Press Institute, has its seat and from the Austrian capital tries to work for freedom of the press worldwide.” I continue to quote from the “standard”: “Even if the BZÖ had been offered a stage with this, it would not have been possible for the ORF to refuse the radiation from fundamental democratic considerations. The ORF has not only an information obligation, the public has a right to information". "The debates of Parliament are part of the political awareness-raising process. Of course, they also belong to television. To prohibit transmission means to restrict freedom of the press.” [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I congratulate you, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel! You have made it happen, and the President has carried out the censorship. We have to read it in the Minutes, also in the Presidency. You too, Mr Klubobmann Strache, have approved it, and Mr Klubobmann Cap has also approved it. [[Abg. Strache: I wasn't in the Presidential! Who did you sit with in the Presidential?]] Your group has allowed freedom of the press to be trampled on. We will therefore continue to draw our attention in the future to the fact that opposition rights in this House are of course to be respected, Mr Klubobmann Cap, and that freedom of the press cannot be trampled on by a ban on the live broadcast of television. [[Abg. Strache: Is it easy to pursue?]] Today you are sitting there – now he is running his forehead, since the early days he has a few folds more, some gray hair maybe also. But in the early days we could have discussed the petitions with greater attention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We will not let go of citizens' rights in this House, opposition rights and freedom of expression, Mr Klubobmann Cap, even if you do not want to! Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, even if you do not want to make fun of it and say: The opinion of the Carinthians is irrelevant. Then we will still fight for it in this House, even if you do not want to allow it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31361	The next speaker was Mr Graf. The rest of your group's speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31382	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I don't say anything to the smokers. Much has already been said about this, and that is right. I would like to comment on the comments made by Mr Westenthal. [[Abg. Riepl: But this is also a smoker!]] Mr Westenthaler would like to tell us here that the concerns of the citizens in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives are so important to him. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A little scratched!]] Mr Westenthaler! Do you know what I am doing in this discussion or what I am missing from you in this matter? First of all: If it is so important to you that this and similar is treated, why are you reported as pro-redner for this request? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: weren't you even per you?]] Then you'd have to be in contra. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Secondly, If you had not had the opportunity to speak here after midnight or late, you would not have had a speech at all, for then you would not have been able to quote “standard”. That's tomorrow's issue! [[Rejoicing and condolences with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] That's the problem. Thirdly, You're the defender of civil rights? – Set this way You're here. You have had many opportunities in your political career to defend citizens' rights. In any case, you did not do it in the Committee because you were not even present! [[Oh-Rufe and condolences with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I read the names of a number of Members who were interested in discussing this matter in committee. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The BZÖ was present!]] [[Further calls.]] The BZÖ was present: Mr Darmann is a hard-working Member, he is everywhere. But you're nowhere where it's important to you! Do you even know what's been treated there? – Relatively little. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you in every committee? There's a division, isn't it?]] No, I was not in the Citizens' Initiative Committee. But I am now telling you how you could better have represented the citizens or those you have chosen. In 2002, Mr Westenthaler, you put yourself in front of the TV camera without any discussion with the Freedom Club, saying: I'll take my hat and say adieu! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now comes the family fight...!]] You could have been there for two more years. You never asked the club! You are the citizens, and you were the Members of Parliament at the time, that is the truth. Here you go; and today you're talking about civil rights. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this a treatment session now?]] You, Mr Westenthaler, should not have put the money of the clubman to the end at that time, but would have been able to stand up for the interests of the electorate who had elected you and all of us. You didn't do that. You do not even know what the citizens' initiatives are all about. Have you read anything, a single one? [[Abg. Ollinger: Are your party layers coming now?]] [[Further calls.]] You, Mr Westenthaler, are all the time saying that the Freedom of the press does not take the freedom of the press seriously that the EDP does not take freedom of the press seriously, and that it does not take it seriously. Do you know what you're doing? – You take what the opposition rights here in this House really protect, namely the consensus in the presidential or between the parties, no longer seriously and put it at risk! And this is at the expense of the opposition or the political groups with a few Members. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, SPÖ, ÖVP and greens.]] You, Mr Westenthaler, really do not care what rights you have. You think with a call at the “Kronen-Zeitung” you can set something up. There you are disproportionately represented despite the alleged non-existent freedom of the press. Let's not do anything! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You must be very upset!]] – Don’t bother me at all; I even appreciate that you can! I just don't understand, Mr Westenthaler, that you are sorry. If you didn't happen, you'd be sorry. But They have put something at stake here in the house, which is really worth being defended, namely the protection of minorities, the consensus that meeting dates are agreed, agendas are fixed by common accord and more. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Give off your opposition card!]] And then put forward to the poor Committee on Petitions and Citizen's Committee on Participation. I don't understand! If it has actually been such a concern to you: Why wasn't that from the beginning? If it's a concern to me – and I have many concerns, but I always represent them, always and from the beginning, and I don't only follow them if it's politically opportunistic, as it is for you right now. And that is exactly what my colleague Hofer has accused you of, and what is perfectly right. You, Mr Westenthaler, are totally unreasonable in politics! In the past, you have also done so to your own party friends, and you will do so to your own party friends today – and you will make it to your own party friends tomorrow. They do so to the electorate, to the citizens – and also to the right that the minority has here in the House. And we just don't play with that!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31586	Mr Scheibner has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31609	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we've learned something again. I am not going to join this FPÖ/BZÖ dispute here now. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Only one, dear Martin Graf, now only spoke as a parliamentarian – you, colleague Graf, have been here in Parliament for many years –: To make an objection to an agenda because you want an outline... – Yes, thank God! [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... is legitimate!]] This sounded different earlier, and only today it was that one has said... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Wait, dear Martin! It has been about today – and this is really surprising in the speeches I have heard now – not to debate precisely this item on the agenda for "petitions and citizens' initiatives" at 1.20 a.m., but as Agenda item 3, I think we have proposed this. Nothing else, dear Martin Graf, it was: Agenda item 3. That would have been at 1 o'clock or 2 o'clock in the afternoon, so twelve hours ago, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Dear Martin Graf! Is this a blow against the rights of minorities when they demand it?- Oh, my God! I can well remember that your group has already made an objection debate, but there has been a difference: At that time, there was a consensus, also with our agreement that your Clubobmann Strache and another representative of your group, and one of the other political groups, could explain the reasons for this change in television time. Completely correct, completely in order: Consensus in the Presidential. So, and now I ask you, Mr Graf, as members of a minority here in this House, which is always, at times rightly, at times wrong, criticised that your group's concerns are also being disregarded. How can one then find out here and thus argue against an even smaller group that demands exactly that, nothing else, which, of course, you have also legitimately taken advantage of? And that one then criticises that this favor had already been given by the majority, namely an objection debate – not a change, but at least the objection debate, and even in the television era – if the Group had agreed to a timetable for the ratification of the EU Treaty with signature. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Once again – now nothing about the content, whether it is good with the EU Treaty, whether this is okay with the timetable –: It is a question of whether such an approach is correct and in order if rights are discussed here by parliamentary minorities. And if you really, as a small group, react to the protest that the other political groups are expressing here, you should think about it, because the next time you do, you can do the same. Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly what it's gotten a little bit quieter now, because it's really very serious to me – maybe we should think about it. I have been a clubman here for many years, and I have also worked in a government group, and we have been very careful not to go over it, but to seek consensus if possible. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and Greens.]] I can also remember that a President Khol threatened to do so at the time: If there is no consensus, there will be no television transmission. We've always found a consensus. But what seems to have happened in the last presidential period should all consider whether this really will enable consensus in the future and promote parliamentarianism in Austria, and also the concerns of Mrs Wurm, who has collected thousands of signatures that many Austrians have gathered behind them. Whether it's right to say for purely tactical, party-political reasons: It does not matter to us, the petitions are coming to an end, and we do not even let that be debated.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31677	Next speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31698	Ladies and gentlemen! In itself, I didn't want to report on this subject again, but: That's all a shame, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler! In fact, you have sat down and thought: What is the distribution of speaking time in the case of any television broadcast? And then you said that if I organise an objection debate and if I suddenly say no to what the five club directors made up, we're not going to do it, they're going to say no anyway, then we're going to make an objection debate, and then I just have more speaking time and minutes in the television broadcast. - That's unscrupulous. As Mr Graf of the FPÖ demonstrated earlier that the BZÖ was in fact not so concerned with the work of the Committee on Petitions as a matter of fact that the presence is criticized, you cannot tell what really happened there, then it is obvious that you are only proposing to the Committee on Petitions to present yourself here today as the most consistent opposition party of all time, which is absolutely wrong, and as defenders of civil rights and democracy. If I think of the time when you have shared responsibility, that's not right either. That is why, Mr Westenthaler, you do not have the right to go out today, to play the persecuted and to claim that you are the only one who is here thinking about minority rights. And it is quite right what you, Mr Graf, have said: They're questioning consensus! This has consequences. We do not just have to make up the Committee's dates for the Constitutional Committee. We must make up all the dates for the committees here in the house. The whole organization in the house has always been marked by the fact that there has been the five-party consensus. But you don't care, Mr. Westenthaler. This is not the way to work! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't go over it! We're not being blackmailed!]] You, Mr Westenthaler, are clearly outside the democratic culture of this House here, but you have to find out once you continue this path. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And honestly, We just don't like these attacks anymore. Really, we don't like that anymore! They do not have the monopoly to distribute notes, who the democrats are and who are not. We just don't like that anymore. – 4.1 percent, I'm just saying. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It was really impressive, I have to say. I didn't follow this up, I don't know what happened earlier than the FPÖ and then FPÖ and BZÖ and so on. In any event, I listened with interest when Mr Graf told you what was your concern during your time, when you, Mr Westenthaler, were working as a clubman and what you were not concerned about and how you were dealing with the Members, how you dealt with the party. I don't know, I don't interfere either. I'm just a political scientist, I'm going to look at this once there's a book on it, but impressive were the accusations I heard about. It was impressive because it is also added to the picture you have given here today, and because I do not know if it will continue this way. How will the next Presidents proceed? Will we sit back there? Will you say no again? Will it end again as it was in the last presidency? How's that going? What I don't understand is that my colleague Scheibner is playing there today. I don't understand. With these anointing tones, when you were out here today, so to speak: I'm the serious former clubman... In your time, there was no such thing, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner. You've been sitting there, you've become familiar with the principle of consensus – and now you're suddenly participating. You know very well, Mr Scheibner, that this is not all right! At the end of the day, as Mr Graf says, the principle of consensus is a protection mechanism for minority groups. And we are committed to this protection mechanism, and we want this consensus principle, but we do not want 4.1 percent of 96 percent to dictate here in the house. This is not in question, I will tell you in all clarity! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My appeal therefore: Rethinking, reuniting and ensuring that this House really works and that there is a democratic culture here that is worthy of heart, so that we can be proud of the work of this House externally, whether we are always of an opinion or not. That is why we have also expressed our protest at Mr Graf's comments today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31757	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 369 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. The agenda is exhausted. [[01:31:47]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00046_d8e31800	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 561/A to 580/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3412/J to 3457/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 31. January 2008, so today, at 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. This meeting will be started at Question Time. The sitting is closed.
