ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7504	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! The 55. The meeting of the National Council is open. The official protocols of 53 and 54. Meeting of 13. On 1 March 2008, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported Binder-Maier, Dr. Rada, Mag. Steinhauser and Ing. Hofer. [[09:06:39]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7538	The Federal Electoral Authority has received a notice that Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek has waived her mandate. Instead of Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Mr Hannes Weninger was appointed to the National Council. Since the electorate is present and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the scribe, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mr Wimmer, to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7581	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7602	I warmly welcome the new honourable Member in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7627	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll is Magnified by the Federal Minister for the Interior Günther Platter, Federal Minister for the Defence of the State. Norbert Darabos represented by the Federal Minister for Women, Media and Public Service Doris Bures. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture Dr. Claudia Schmied is represented by the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin Buchinger. Mr Strache, for the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, made written objections to the agenda of today's sitting which had been communicated in writing. The objections concern the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, including Protocols, Annex and Final Act of the Intergovernmental Conference, including those attached to them (417 and 484 of the Supplements). Mr Ing. Westenthaler, within the meaning of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, made written objections to the agenda of today's sitting in writing. These objections also concern the Lisbon Treaty in 417 of the Supplements, including the attached declarations (484 of the Supplements). In accordance with § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I do not support these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. The joint debate on the objections will take place after the current hour. [[09:09:30]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7710	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Work for Austria: Relieving citizens, ensuring full employment and growth The first was Mr Neugebauer's speech. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time is up to 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7737	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government, at the head of Mr. Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house and at home! There is no doubt that today's discussions focus on the debate and decision-making on the adapted rules in the Europe network. But it is, as I mean, quite good if, in the run-up to this pan-European view, the focus is also placed on the Austrian situation at this current hour. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that 2007 has been an extremely good economic year. The fact is that in 2008 we are expected to have significantly lower growth. The international conditions provide the framework for this. And it is important to remember that the support of the success of recent years is very high, especially in exports, and that now our main trading partners do not allow our exports to mature to the desired level due to their weak economic development and low demand. Austria has just experienced an exchange of feelings at the turn of the year: on the one hand, record employment, as a result of economic packages in the last two years, unemployment is falling significantly – we are 4 percent after Eurostat, in Europe more than 6 percent on average. We are in fourth place, after the Netherlands, Denmark and Cyprus. An excellent balance sheet! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, this excellent balance sheet – rising employment, falling unemployment – is saddened by high inflation, an inflation that is not entirely a singular event from the Austrian point of view. Internationally, it is essentially the major areas of food, housing and energy that make up this inflation shift. For the working people, this means that future income growth must also be higher than inflation in the long term. This is where the trade unions and the social partners are in demand. But that also means – and I am grateful for these agreements of the Federal Government – that for pensioners we increase the pension increase, originally with 1. January of the coming year was planned to be preferred by two months, i.e. November 2008. As far back as 2007, I am reminded that we did a lot of things to make life easier for certain groups, for workers, for families, for young people as well. Increased fees, flexible child care, multi-childhood, extension/extension of study funding, and the like, are just a few points that I would like to remember. At present, only nine days in force: The inflation relief law only increases the indicative rates for the rental rate by the average value. It is also expected that the reduction in the maximum commission limit – which we have discussed in recent debates – will be achieved by 1. July. The Federal Government has set itself a very ambitious work plan, sharpened it in the last few days and has also provided it with time marks, because it does not make sense to put a note of money into someone's hand and to think that inflation is fought if one does not address the roots and causes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the work plan we support provides for a stopover by the government, including the countries and municipalities, to take such measures, whether at the vignette prices or at appropriate fees from the ministries. It is also important to make aware, in the course of the Competition Commission, of the preparation of opinions on where these high food prices actually come from internationally. The Minister for Social Affairs has just launched a price monitoring for certain foods, and the comparability in a location benchmarking is also given very thorough advice. As an advance to tax relief, it has been agreed that we will carry out on the part of workers the exemption from the unemployment insurance for low incomes. I believe that this is a very important aspect, which we have here with sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen, since the establishment of the group of tax reform, the key points have been far from dispute: the relief of families with children, the relief of the middle class, all those paying income and wage taxes. And for us workers within the Austrian People's Party, it is also important that we give a new boost to employee participation. There are good, also tried-and-tested projects in terms of employee participation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the debate is always focused on a subject that may seem to be very important to you, but one must not forget the overall view of politics – and the debates over the last few days on ensuring our excellent health care have once again proved this to me: Whenever you don't want to continue white or not, the call comes to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I can already say that one must first be able to deal with his homework. We have not only to solve the question of tax relief with a volume of just over €3 billion, but also to present a balanced budget. And we must not forget that we also have to invest in education, in health – keyword care –, research, climate protection and others. Finally, I should like to point out that although we are better off in the process of deficit adjustment than the government programme provides, the debts of the past are hard on our shoulders. The backpack of interest payments alone is saying and writing 7,1 billion € per year. Ladies and gentlemen, this means an annual minus for every Austrian and every Austrian in his personal account. Therefore, there is also a need for a substantial relief in the sense of tax relief. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we are now reducing this debt ratio to less than 60% of the gross domestic product through a smart household and domestic investment. This has been the first time since 1992 and is also truly tangible. This is economic competence, combined with responsibility for future generations. It is not about offering something populist in the short term, but rather about the necessary, which needs to be made possible in the short term, to have in mind the welfare of our country in the medium and long term. That here the Federal Minister for Finance Mag. It is known that Molterer is particularly required in his responsibility for the guidelines. Our support will be given to the guideline on budgetary policy which it has provided in the Federal Government, namely to promote growth and employment, to increased future investment and to a fair tax and tax system. The work plan of the Federal Government is ambitious. I would like to say – and there I meet Franz Vrancky, who meant today in the morning “Morgenjournal” when he is said: Save Austria!, Austria did not have to be saved, Austria was not in danger –: Austria is well positioned! I would like to write to those ladies and gentlemen who are spreading horror and false reports instead of sober and factual analysis and the following wise policy: In recent years, Austria has proved to be very efficient and has benefited almost perfectly from the enlargement of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Politics creates the framework. I would like to thank all of you very much, ladies and gentlemen, especially the citizens of this country, because they are the Austrian people who, through their diligence, their competence and excellent sensors for social balance in this country, are drawing an Austrian success path. I thank people in our country very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7850	On a preliminary opinion, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer to speak. – Your speaking time, Mr Vice-Chancellor, should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7873	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Austria is good at it! Austria has seen an absolutely stable and positive development in recent years. And the prospect for the next years also fills me, fulfilling us with confidence in the Federal Government. Austria has a stable economic development – like hardly any other European country, ladies and gentlemen! We've been picking up in recent years. Austria has developed a growth trend, and not only for the past few years, but also for this year, we can see that the Austrian economy will grow faster, more positive than the European Union average. That makes us sure. The Austrian economy is likely to grow by 2.1 percent this year. In the first quarter, which is very exciting, the economy has grown by 2.8 percent, thus stronger than expected. One of the reasons for this is very clear: Austria has changed positively in recent years. Exports have grown from €47 billion in the last 15 years to €115 billion in words and writing; export revenues have more than doubled. This is an export success, ladies and gentlemen! This is a proof of service for Austria! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Of course, this is also inseparably related to European development – we will still discuss it today. Through the European Union, especially through enlargement, Austria has gained more opportunities, and Austria has taken advantage of these opportunities, ladies and gentlemen. I am proud of our home country Austria! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What is particularly positive about us is that these economic data transform into concrete successes for people. People are taking part in this economic success. We also have a development of the labour market through policy, but above all through the positive work of workers and the entrepreneurs who are looking for the same in Europe. We currently have an unemployment of 4.1 percent, are the fourth best country in the meantime and are just about to join the top 3. This is precisely the objective of the Federal Government: to be among the three best in the labour market in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This labour market development has led to as many people as ever before in Austria having jobs: Nearly 3.4 million Austrians have jobs. And we are already scratching full employment with this well 4 percent. That is the objective that this Federal Government has set itself, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have come up with a very clear political concept: Firstly, sound and serious budgetary policy in this country, Secondly, real investment, for example in education, research, but where necessary also in ensuring our social systems, Thirdly, it is clear that over the course of this legislative period we need to relieve and relieve citizens of burden – I am still talking about it – and that we are making the necessary reforms, for example in the area of labour market and administration, so that the dynamics of the Austrian site can be further expanded. However, we also have to open the way for an analysis of the problems that exist. The Federal Government has therefore dealt very intensively with these issues in recent weeks and has developed a concrete timetable and a content perspective on how it deals with these new challenges. Anyone who sees the world openly knows that we are good, but there are signs, such as on the financial markets, in the area of exchange rates between euro and dollar, or in the raw material price development, which satisfy us with some concern. The growth rates are good, but not as good as in the last two years. Therefore, in the Federal Government, we have developed a very concrete implementation plan to respond to these new challenges. I am grateful for the fact that in these days and weeks we can present our positive policy for Austria in a very concrete way here in the National Council. First: The great challenge for people in our country, especially for small incomes, is inflation. We simply need to see openly and honestly that the users of small incomes in particular have real problems with the increased prices of food and energy. But in the Federal Government it has not been enough for us to make a balance with any one-off payments, no, we are going to the roots of the problem: Inflation must be combated at the roots! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That is why we have provided a comprehensive package, starting with the fee stop, where the public hand also provides a positive example – it is the invitation to the countries and municipalities to follow this positive example of the federal government. We also need to improve our competitive orientation. Quite frankly: I do not have the impression that the energy industry has already exploited all the competitive potential. We must measure ourselves with the best in terms of combating inflation, also in the food sector. And we have – quite specifically – put in place a completely right structural measure as a support in the sense of the cost compensation: We reduce the additional wage costs for small incomes up to €1 350. That is an absolutely right measure! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Why? – This measure helps people in a very concrete way, on average with about €300 relief, but above all it reduces the additional labour costs, relieves the factor work. It is therefore more attractive to take up work and offer work through this new model, which is truly forward-looking. We will also send the right signal in the area of older people through an early retirement adjustment as early as November of this year and will also implement a price compensation for this population group. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But that's not enough for us. In the area of the labour market, we are putting in place additional initiatives, with the specific employment package for young people. The fight against youth unemployment is probably one of the most challenging policy projects. We are in Europe – very few know – that is why we say this clearly – in the meantime, as far as youth employment is concerned, the second best country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved that in youth employment, the apprenticeship gap is almost closed. There are currently only about 600 job seekers in Austria more than we have open apprenticeships. We're going to do it with this pa- KET provides that we can give every youth in Austria a training guarantee up to 18. The dual training, business and vocational school, remains the basis, is supplemented by over-company forms of training, and the Blum-Bonus is further developed so that we can offer additional incentives that the companies take even more apprentices. Our goal is that we can fully implement the training guarantee by 18 and that each job seeker gets a apprenticeship. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the goal of the Federal Government! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We will complement this package, together with the social partners, we are working on a package for older workers. There's something else we've got to do. As far as employment of older workers is concerned, we are not yet where we want to be – the labour market will need this experience – so we must also offer these incentives. Ladies and gentlemen! We have decided in the Federal Government a very concrete timetable for tax relief. The tax relief volume is €3 billion, which is at least 1 percent of the gross national product – in old currency almost 40 billion schilling. The tax relief is 1st. In January 2010 it was effective and affects in particular three large groups: first the middle class, second the families with more children and third the economic and job location Austria. This tax relief is based on a reasonable double budget for 2009 and 2010. This federal government will therefore ensure that this positive development of our country continues, that we create more growth and that people can also participate in this positive development through full employment. This is how you do it: work positively for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8034	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8059	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, unemployment has fallen dramatically. That was also one of the main objectives of this federal government. [[Abg. Oils: The fight has succeeded! Probably!]] In the current legislative period, the aim was to reduce unemployment by one third and to halve youth unemployment. Yes, it is also true, we are second in the field of youth unemployment. We must not forget, however, that we were the first to fall back ten years ago, but now we should pick up and go where we want to go. Similarly, it is in general unemployment that we have already been much better in relation to our European neighbours, have fallen back between 2000 and 2004/2005, and now, 2006, 2007 and 2008, we are recovering and reducing unemployment enormously. This is good and important for many reasons, also for budgetary reasons, because, of course, every other employee is one who pays contributions and is not financed by contributions. In this respect labour market policy is also very important for a balanced budget, for a reasonable budgetary policy, especially because people have employment. I think it is very important for everyone to be in employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Employment growth last year with regard to: More than 100 000 jobs have been created. This is the highest increase since the 1950s, and that means that 100 000 people have more work half day, part-time or full - time jobs. Most of these 100 000 jobs are full-time jobs. This shows that the new Federal Government is very successful in the field of labour market policy, and of course the economy has helped. [[Cheerfulness as well as calls at the ÖVP:Ah go!]] - I don't know what to laugh at. The fact that the economy has an impact on unemployment will probably not be entirely new to you. [[Abg. Oillinger: More than the Federal Government!]] The question now about this package is very important and very important, because three important things are happening in this context. First: With the exception of what we have done in the last year at the Pendler payer's fee, which has not experienced any relief for many, many years, there are now between €80 and €420 redundancies, not only in 2009 or 2010, but already from 1 January 2010 but also in the case of small income recipients who, of course, also pay taxes and taxes – not so little, but no wage tax – who have not felt any relief in recent years – with the exception of what we did last year at the Pendler's payer's fee. ==References== And 420 € a year is really not a small thing, that's in old currency over 5,000 schilling, and that's crazy money, money that these people need. This is a clear relief for people with small incomes in particular, and that is why we will support it. I know this has already been decided in the Council of Ministers today, and we will have it here in the House in a few weeks. This is an essential measure for these more than a million people who have very low incomes. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second essential area is that the increase in pensions takes place two months earlier. This will be about €20, 40, 60, 80, 90 for the individual pensioner, i.e. also a discharge – no relief in connection with inflation, because everyone still feels, but at least a relief of inflation. We will also support this. The third area – and this is not insignificant in God’s sight, but very important – is the question of the growth of wealth taxation. It is about the fact that there are different kinds of incomes in Austria. You can go to work, and if someone earns €50,000 a year by work, it is taxed with over €30 000 over taxes and taxes. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't need to be proud of it!]] If someone has 50 000 € interest income, it is 12 500 € with which it is taxed – much less. [[Abg. Scheibner: There you should change the income tax limits!]] And if someone deserves it through stock speculation, that's exactly 0 €. That is why we say – and this is very important to us: We want to reduce taxes on work – the first step is taken on 1st. July 2008... – On 1 July 2008... – On 1 July 2008... July 2008! [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] Didn't you look after me? [[Abg. Scheibner: Where do you reduce taxes? Increase it!]] Then come to the next plenary session, you can vote for it if we already have taxes and taxes from 1. Decline July 2008. So those who don't make a contribution now and have incomes as well - that's fair - should pay part of their income. It is not to be seen that someone who sells the shares of a company that has to tax quite normally and someone who sells shares in a stock company does not pay taxes. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] To that end, I also believe that the tax on wealth growth is important because it can reduce the burden on labour while at the same time ensuring greater justice in the tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8192	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. A maximum of 5 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8213	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! One word to my previous speaker: If we are discussing growth and employment strategies today, we are also discussing discharge strategies and not new burdens – I can say that very clearly once. There is no doubt that the two government parties differ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is not bad at all, because we are two independent parties that form a government here. When we discuss the Federal Government's strategy for growth and employment, this triple strategy – stability in the state budget, discharge of citizens and businesses as well as investment in the future – I am one that always likes to discuss on the basis of data and facts. Let us take a look at the facts and facts. First, economic growth. Mr Vice-Chancellor said: In the years 2002 to 2006, in the last six years, our economic growth has increased more than that of the EU-15, even stronger than the growth of the EU-25 – no question. A brochure on “Industrieland Österreich” was published yesterday, which reads: The experts in the economy are already talking about a second economic miracle in Austria. – The first was in the 1950s; at that time, growth rates were also higher in Austria than in the most important European countries, today a similar situation. Second characteristic: the exports – the vice chancellor has also addressed them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are European champions of export growth. Our export industry has grown stronger over the last ten years than anyone else! Since accession to the EU, the number of companies exporting has quadrupled. The volume of exports has doubled since 1999. We have really benefited from the opportunities for growth from the enlargement of Europe. I think we have a success recipe based on three pillars: First of all, the human capital of the employees in the enterprises. You can only be proud of that. We are in the world ranking on employee motivation, second in Denmark worldwide. I thank these motivated employees and these motivated entrepreneurs! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The second pillar of success is undoubtedly European development in recent years, the reunification of Europe, the opening up of Central and Eastern Europe, the accession to the European Union. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, has, of course, greatly improved the strategic conditions for a successful economic strategy. It is a difference – I am speaking, for example, of my constituency – whether you are lying in the border region or in the heart of Europe. – So this fact alone is also a pillar of success. The third pillar is undoubtedly also the strategy of politics; the strategy – and this must be said openly – not only since the 1st century. ==References== International newspapers have already written in 2005, 2006: Austria, a model for Switzerland; ‘Austria: The better Germany". Let's not forget this: These were important and necessary structural reforms, which are the basis for today's success. And it is no coincidence that in the government programme it means that the policies of the next four years are building on the very successful policies of recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for continuity in economic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course you can now ask: What does the individual of these beautiful economic figures have? Let us look at this in the fields of employment, income, social security: As far as employment is concerned, my previous speaker has already said that there is a new employment record, an unemployment rate of 4.1 percent. If we still improve by 0.2 percentage points, we have already achieved full employment in accordance with the international definition. If a threesome is at the forefront, this is the state of full employment according to all the definitions of economic researchers. Secondly, As far as social security, social balance and social balance are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the forefront of the top 5 in Europe. Every third schilling that is being developed in Austria – euro, yes! – is ultimately spent for social purposes. [[Abg. Rosary: Euro!]] With a social rate of 30 percent, ladies and gentlemen, we are fourth in Europe! And let's look at the income situation! With regard to income per capita of the population, Austria also has the fourth place in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a success story based on these three pillars: Human capital, the European Union and the economic policy strategy of this and the former Federal Government. Of course, that does not mean that we are not faced with huge challenges; no question at all. These challenges include health reform – it has already been addressed – the state reform, an educational offensive. The world is constantly changing! That is, we are building on a good basis, we have made a successful policy in recent years, but of course we already have to “trap at the belts” in order to achieve these successes even in the next few years. I believe that this federal government will also be able to continue this successful course of recent years, the years since 2000, with this new action programme, which was agreed on during the Easter celebrations between German Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8278	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8299	Mr President. High house! We have now heard from my previous speakers a lot of jubilation messages here, but the question is: Is there really so much reason to rejoice? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Facts and facts!]] Now wait a minute, Mr. Cot! Let us look at the development of economic growth! The latest forecast by the Economic Research Institute shows that by 2009 economic growth will be halved in real terms, from 3.4 percent in 2007 to half in 2009. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Nothing “Prognosis” – Data!]] First point. Second point: This also brought an end to a boom in Austria that lasted more than two years. In this development, however, Austria has not been able to return to full employment. Not at all! We have an unemployment rate of 4.3 percent in the previous year, and this year, according to the recent economic research institute's forecast of 28. In March, they dropped to 4.2%, not 4.0%, and not 4.1%. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 4,1!]] But this is far from full employment, and that is not the number one thing in Europe, as you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have said in the budget speech. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's what you said: We want to become the number one, and now you're already satisfied with number three and in youth employment with number two. And if you are talking about full employment, you must also explain to the unemployed what you understand as full employment. They will have little understanding of this. The unemployed who want to work are increasingly at risk of slipping into poverty, and we still have more than a million people in this country who are at or below the poverty line. [[Abg. Grandruck: They get work!]] These are facts, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the SPÖ! And given the fact that Austria is one of the richest countries in the world, this is a shame! Secondly, The Austrian development of the export industry was certainly a success story. Assigned: The companies deserved well, the profits have exploded – but has this also arrived in the wallets of the Austrians? – No, Mr Vice-Chancellor, no! Decide no! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Yes!]] Take a look into the figures, into the data, into the facts, and see how the net real income development in recent years was! On average, there was an increase of 0.3 percent per year. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: So more?- Oh, my God!]] Yes, but in view of the exploding development of profits, Mr Vice-Chancellor, this is more than modest! Poor, very thin, I would say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And this year? – Net real wage losses, despite for the first time stronger wage increases – yes, where is this a success story?, and for the low incomes even real wage losses of 0.3 percent – in view of a very high inflation rate on the one hand, but also because of the fact of cold progression. That is, more and more people are growing into levels of taxation that are not made for them. And what does the government do in view of this development? – It relieves the lowest income, that is right, but nothing is done for everyone else who is equally affected by inflation. For them it says: Please wait for 2010! In the context of the 2010 tax relief, you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, will never tire of stressing that it will only come when we make surpluses in the budget. Today you have not said this in exceptional terms, but: In view of the weakening economic situation, 2010 is not Surpluses are likely, but much more likely, and this also shows the latest forecasts, budget deficits. And if you still want to make a tax relief in view of these budget deficits, the following will occur: Then, in the years that followed, there will have to be a budgetary consolidation course so that we can achieve the goals set by Maastricht, and you will take away from people what you will have given them in 2010. This is the policy, the tax relief policy that the government is making! Let me also say a word on the subject of wealth. While wage development is very thin, income explodes from property, from assets, from speculation. And what happens in connection with the discharge of assets? – Yes, something happens as well: The rich and the super-rich are relieved! The inheritance and gift tax runs at 31. July of 2008, and this is not a discharge of the middle class, no, that relieves the rich! [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] One of the most recent laws, the Donation Notice Act, even provides for extensions to the tax privileges of private foundations. - That's a scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8439	The next item is Mr Themessl. The maximum speaking time of 5 minutes is also valid for him. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8488	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Good morning! all spectators here in the Hohe Haus and, of course, on the TV screens. – The words “Rettet Österreich!” have already fallen here today, although in a different context, namely the EU, but one could of course apply it to this issue, because: What is Austria? What is the economy of Austria? [[Abg. Murauer:... a football fan?]] The economy of Austria is flourishing because the structures of small and medium-sized enterprises are still in the process of voting, but they are highly at risk. Therefore, we could say on this item on the agenda: Save SMEs, help SMEs, because this government is doing all it can to kill SMEs and SMEs! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, you have to hold it this way. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, good economic figures have always been spoken of by the economic miracle. Yes, it may be, but the people affected on the spot don't know anything about it at all! Mr Rossmann correctly noted that over the past few years wage increases have accounted for a modest 0.3 percent, and this in the case of billions of profits from the large industry, which you helped in 2005! The only thing you've done in recent years is to serve your clientele. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are becoming more and more a left party!]] Due to the reduction in Köst, the corporate tax, exactly your clientele was used, because KöSt was reduced from 34 percent to 25 percent, with the result that today the large industry is gaining billions of profits. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: And jobs create!]] Of course! But you know that 70 percent of the jobs of small and medium-sized enterprises are created and the main share of apprenticeship training is also attributed to small and medium-sized enterprises. Since you praise the industry today, I have to tell you: Ten years ago, the industry in Austria has trained 26 000 apprentices a year, today, ten years later, the industry is providing exactly 16 000 apprenticeships per year for training! This is a minimum of 10,000 jobs in industry. And what do you think if you speak today of good employment figures also in connection with youth unemployment, who is putting these jobs today? – These are small and medium-sized enterprises, and for these you do nothing at all! You, Mr Vice-Chancellor, speak of a sound and serious budgetary policy, and Mr Stumpfully has already stressed to the public that it is the most important thing for him at all to comply with budgetary discipline. If you had done this in recent years, you would have had a zero deficit in tax revenue in 2006 and 2007 of well over €4 billion in 2006 and a zero deficit in 2007. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, if you always, when it comes to figures and tax reliefs, try the old Schilling because it sounds better and better, then I say to you: 3 billion €, you're already right, are over 40 billion schilling. But if you were to raise the current debt of the Republic of Austria with €160 billion and convert it into Schilling, then you would come to 2 300 billion schilling, which the Austrian state owes today. And for this, the Austrian state pays back almost 100 billion schillings every year – even in Schilling – only at interest rates! They are unable to achieve a zero deficit in economic high and good economic times. This is more than weak, as Mr Rossmann has already pointed out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you're talking about good conditions, I'll tell you what economic researchers are saying: They tell you that, in the current situation and the framework conditions provided by this Federal Government, 70 percent of the new creations in SMEs and individual companies will not be able to survive the first three years. And then you're talking about good economic policy, of an economic miracle!Unknown term type: "%s".? In Austria, 9 percent of all employees pay 50 percent of the tax burden, and 14 percent pay the other 50 percent of the tax burden. That means, in Austria, not quite a quarter, exactly 23 percent, pays the total taxes! Not quite a quarter of Austrian employees keep the other 75 percent alive. And you think that's fair?- Oh, my God! – You kill the middle class, you don’t give small and medium-sized enterprises a chance to survive the next few years! And if we progress in this way, we are in danger of becoming a two-class society that will be irreparatable. Another point about the relief you are planning, which should now come into force, is also a word to Mr Krainer. If you are talking today about reducing taxes, starting with unemployment insurance contributions, I will tell you: What you do not say is that the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions leads to a rise in the tax base. That is to say, one third of the money you want to return to the workers today is to cash back as Minister of Finance. And in recent years – from 2000 to 2007 – you have managed to increase the tax revenue from 14 billion to 20 billion. This is tax revenue of more than a third, so you've taken more than €7 billion in taxes, and you want to return 0.3 percent to employees. I say to you: weak, more than weak! Consider your economic policy, then the Austrians will continue to do well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8575	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8597	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! It would have surprised me, Mr Molterer, if you had today, on a day like this, where it is mainly important to discuss another issue, namely the European Union, not also in this debate made the European Union the main responsibility for the good economic development in Austria. I have a completely different opinion: The fact that there is a good economic development is that you are levying as many taxes as you have never before – 3 billion more than ever budgeted – is primarily due to the hard-working Austrians who have generated and worked out this, and not to the European Union, Minister of Finance! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This should also be of benefit to businesses and workers and to employees that they do a decent job. On the package, the You've been sniffing. – A SPÖ officer of the South did not call this package a compromise, but a compromise. He must have thought of something. I call it “Kanzlererhaltungspaket”, because it was only suitable for achieving a coalition peace and saving the chancellor’s chair by the SPÖ. This package is more than pathetic! It is therefore more than sad, because the SPÖ has also left the cat out of the bag, as it actually sees social responsibility. After only employees with an income of up to €1 350 are relieved, the SPÖ tells us in return: Anyone who deserves a little more – that is, from €1 400 – is already rich in this country. In other words, for the SPÖ, the wealth already breaks out from €1 400 gross per month. Who really believes that? With this package you will not even reach 2.5 million employees. They look through their fingers and have to pay the high prices, the inflation and the burdens, without any compensation, and this is actually a scandal on the part of the Social Democratic Party! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Commercials, freelancers, officials, the older generation from 56 and families – they all stay on the track! They pay the “full program”: plus 9 percent in food, rental increases, energy costs, electricity, petrol. All these loads hit these people with full weight – by the way, the pensioners too. That's a good thing. You say to the pensioners: Well, now we have to make a two-month pension adjustment, an inflation adjustment – even Mr Marizzi must laugh! – before, on November. But what's up to November? The pensioners now have a real income loss because we have inflation above 3 percent and the last pension allowance was far below. Therefore, pensioners are currently losing money, and they are the main victims of price increases, of the taxes. That's why you also abandon your pensioners, and that's not all right, ladies and gentlemen! Even in the case of the least-earners - I am right for colleagues from the FPÖ - even for the people, where you delete unemployment insurance. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to make it easier for you to say the truth, even there, because, of course, in the case of around a third, with 300 000 workers, the wage tax now fully affects this alleged relief and already a third of that relief, because suddenly people become subject to a payroll tax or just fall into another wage tax class. That too is not quite fair. Of your inflation compensation for everyone – according to Gusenbauer – no more word! From an advanced tax reform – no more word! From a discharge of the middle class – no more word! Not even in the beginning there is any discharge! And with the pensioners, I've just told you that this is not the case there. But you are the world champion, Mr. Finanzminister, together with the SPÖ, inventing new taxes! There you are. Now a new tax is coming again – that is actually the main result –: The government calls it wealth tax. Do you know what that is? – This is nothing but a diligent tax, with which the hardworking people in this country who work more are burdened. And I am also looking at the way in which the Industrial Union is dealing with by the Economic Union here in Parliament, that those people who do more that belong to the middle class are suddenly subject to a new tax! We will resist this because we represent this middle class, we also represent the hard-working people in this country, and we will not allow them to be taxed with a new tax! On the contrary: Finally reduce the wage and income tax and finally reward more work! Yes, we are in favour of the abolition of taxes on overtime! Whoever does more in this country, who does more overtime, shall not be punished by paying more taxes, but he shall be rewarded and paid off. More work is good and should also be rewarded in this country – we demand it from you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we want more net of the gross for the middle class in this country, for hundreds of thousands and millions of people who ultimately also boost this economy. You, Minister of Finance, doctors around, also in the middle class. They want to burden these people, and I am very surprised that this will now also allow the ÖVP. You haven't given any clarification at all, what you mean by that, but people are waiting for it, and it's time for you to explain to people what it means. They should finally relieve people, because the citizens are waiting for them for a very long time!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8679	The next speaker is Mrs Rudas. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8700	Mr President. Dear members of the government on the government bank! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear spectators at home and at the gallery! High house! Mr Westenthaler and Mr Themessl, every time you take the expression social responsibility into your mouth, I get it, I have to say honestly, such a light goose skin on the back. I grew up under your time of government and I would like to introduce to you my old friends who did not find a teaching place in these years, who did not have a training place until three or four years later, and who today, in my age, still suffer from it. [[Abg. Wheeler: Incorrect handling!]] I'd like to introduce them to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we are talking about full employment, we must in fact take care of what kind of employment we are talking about and what income this employment is linked to! When we talk about growth, we also need to talk about the fact that not only a few but as many people as possible should participate in growth! How does reality look? – In Europe’s fourth-richest country, there are still many people who, when their heating is broken, have to give up on their annual leave to pay the repair costs. The fourth richest country in Europe still shares 10 percent of the population with two thirds of the population. Mr President, we are really different. We, the Social Democrats, say: We can afford justice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Contributing to others!]] It may well be that the tax system, as it is, at some point had a time when it fit and where it was appropriate, but today the requirements have changed. If corporate profits rise by 30 percent each year when managers earn up to 20 percent more, but the average net income of the middle class remains the same if many young people still earn so little that they can hardly fight their livelihood, then definitely something goes wrong. Mr Westenthaler, when you talk about the hard-working, I ask you: Do you think that 90 percent of people contribute only to one third of our common prosperity? Do you think the managers are actually working the twentyfold of their employees? So much responsibility can't even carry your hardworking on your shoulders that it justified them to earn the twentyfold! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Growth is not ensured by this... [[Abg. May. Kukacka: How was BAWAG? How much did the managers deserve there?]] – colleague, we're grölen at the football court, here we're talking about politics, okay? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Here you go! An intermediate call is not a grölen!]] Growth is not ensured by the fact that a few rich people are getting richer and others are getting less and less. Prosperity and growth will be ensured if we can all share in it and have a fair tax system. [[Abg. Wheeler: Androsch!]] [[Abg. Flöttl!]] Now I come to the real issue of youth employment. [[Abg. Wheeler: Androsch!]] Growth is ensured if we have as well-trained young people in our country as possible. As a young Member of Parliament, I would like to say something which, unfortunately, is sometimes questioned: Social partnership – and it has proved that! – has not come out of fashion at all! This package, which she has negotiated, is excellent, is outstretched and shows that social partnership is important in our country. You should also underline that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] After all, it is the first time after six years – and I have already mentioned it, I have grown up during these six years, almost – that we are talking about youth employment again, it is the first time that all parties say: The fight against youth unemployment is important to us! I said one of my first speeches here: If we reduce the electoral age, all political parties will suddenly talk about youth unemployment and youth employment and youth training, and not just us Social Democrats. That's quite welcome, because we boys need all the allies. Nevertheless, I do not want to ignore one in the whole discussion, and that is that we also need to be concerned that young people have a right to a self-determined life. [[Abg. Rädler: You have a Federal Chancellor anyway!]] In other words, it used to be possible to choose training, to go to a farm and to have training opportunities. Today, there are more and more young people who have been “put” in any training – in quotation marks – that actually do not match their interests, and who have grown up with the idea of having to do a job for their lives that they do not really want to do. [[Abg. Steibl: From the SPÖ, but not from the farms!]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, it is all the more important to highlight quality assurance in the training guarantee, namely that it will no longer be a matter of putting young people into any training, but rather of future training that will also suit their interests. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8905	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8927	Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The last seven years, from 2000 to 2007, were good years for Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] It was a good economic situation and it was good conditions that safeguarded the Austrian economy and made it safe for the future, where jobs were secured, where income was secured, and where we are ultimately moving towards full employment with 3.4 million Austrians who have work today, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dolinschek: There was another partner!]] Nevertheless, there are discussions and problems among those people who deserve less. There has been very passionate, emotional discussions over the last few weeks and days, also due to political reasons for looking for the guilty. I also say here today as a farmer's representative: Yes, the food has also become more expensive, but not only the food and not only the farmers were responsible for this inflation rate. You really have to look at the price increases in recent years! In the case of housing, water and energy, there has been a cost increase of plus 87 percent since 1987 and in the case of net wages of plus 71 percent. There you have to look at the expenditure of a household for food! In 1980 these were 26.6%, in 1994 17 percent and in 2007, ladies and gentlemen, 13 percent. That is why I ask you: Let us be honest with the discussion. If we take the problem with the roots, we look at it in a holistic way! And with regard to the rural people in this country, who have a high claim to quality and guarantee of origin: Let us note that this also has its price undisputed! I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for this honest discussion, because I am also saying clearly today: I am not concerned that consumers will be taxed unilaterally with high prices on the shelf, but I am concerned that our farmers in the food value chain and wherever their fair share is involved. That must be our goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I am very glad that our Minister of Finance has now started this initiative together with the government to create this discharge package for those people who need it: not with a “one-time dog” – that will not be enough! – but with permanent redundancies, such as a reduction in additional wage costs or the promotion of pension adjustment to November 2008. This also applies to the financial compensation provided by our Minister of Finance directly after the formation of government for the small communities for which citizens in the small communities have secured, which will flow €100 million more into these small communities from 2011 onwards, because these citizens also need these redundancies. The expenditure in these communities per citizen is very high: €2 251 per person, ladies and gentlemen! That's why it's very, very important. But also safety for our farmers with the green pact for the miners, for the environmental programme, for investments in rural areas, for LEADER programmes – these are important measures that are being put in place. And now it is important to think for the future how we can carry out further tax reliefs in the near future until 2010. That's what I'm saying quite clearly: There, the families – where children are at home – and the middle class must be at the heart of such a discharge offensive, because these are the service providers of Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Street: wealth growth tax!]] The basis will be a double budget for 2009/2010. We are in favour of burden, we are not in favour of taxation! That is why I said clearly – in conclusion and addressed to everyone – in order to secure Austria's economic location: Put your fingers away from the ground and the ground! Put your fingers away from the ground and the ground, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Street: Fingers away from the wealth tax!]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] We are here for the people in Austria to create work to secure income and to increase the economic location accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9033	Next, Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. They also have a maximum speaking time of 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9054	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Karin M. is an educational scientist and 32 years old. She works 15 hours a week as an advisor in a social club. She can't live on it. That's why she jobs in the evening as a minor employee in a shopping mall. On the weekend she sometimes helps in the local of a friend, but she is not registered for that. Laura K. and Stefan M., 33 and 36 years old, work in the creative industry. According to their own data, this takes at least 12 hours each day and sometimes also on weekends. A payment for overtime is not possible because they have works contracts. How long they're going to endure this stress, they don't know. You now have health problems, stomach ulcers, back pain. However, in the absence of appropriate insurance protection, the loss of work would also mean the total loss of income, and they could not yet form deposits for emergencies. And finally – unfortunately, Madam President Prammer is not present! – Susanne W., Member of Parliament. On the basis of a free service contract, it leads visitor groups through the Hohe Haus. Their contract does not define a minimum income. It is paid only per tour. So she doesn't know from month to month how much she will earn, whether she will earn enough for her and her daughter. She's a solo educator. Ladies and gentlemen, I know all these people personally. These are the subjects of your type of full employment. How does this full employment come about? – There are enormously increasing numbers of minor employees who do not have insurance protection other than accident insurance. There are more and more free employees without prospects and without income guarantees. And there are increases among the unfortunately involuntary part-time workers, especially in extremely poorly paid trade. This is the result of your policy, because you have created such forms of employment. And now you come from the ÖVP with the keyword “relief”. I mean, Who's gonna believe that? With these measures you have become the taxing party for the Austrians! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They burden people in this country with fears and uncertainty, because they legally allow and also promote such employment. This brings me to a short excursion towards your coalition partner SPÖ. Point one: We have economic growth, we have increasing growth in wealth, and we have rising inflation, but – it has already been said today – we have stagnant real incomes that are falling among the workers. Last year's wage statements - ladies and gentlemen of the union, I hope you listen to me! – were just too low. You can still sell them as intensively as success, it was too little. You know that, and people don't know. Point two: More and more people approach me, who are in atypical employment and are not supported by the works councils and staff representatives. They leave people alone in precarious employment. This antiquated trade union policy means that young people, Mrs Rudas, can no longer start with social partners and, above all, with the need for solidarity in trade union policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm wondering, When to Watch You're from the union out of your troubled thorny sleep? Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, where is the minimum wage law, the income above the poverty limit guaranteed? Where is the basic guarantee that poverty really eliminates? Where is a labour law reform, which gives workers their dignity and allows for a self-determined life? Stop cheering! Stop knocking on your shoulders! The concerns and fears of the people described by you, but also thousands of others, really do not offer anything but reason to knock and cheer.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9145	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9167	Good morning, Mr President. Estimated government! When I listen to my previous speakers – I wrote that down! – then I have to say that this is a song of praise on all that has happened: Mr Neugebauer said that 2007 was an extremely good economic year; let us not fail by the horror reports of the opposition! Vice chancellor Molterer notes: Austria's good at it. Mr Grillitsch says: It was a good year for Austria. The economic situation is right. – A song of praise on all of this. The mass of the population doesn't feel anything about it! As in the case of the European Union, where people are going about it and say: This is such a good reform work, as there is no need for a popular survey!, the government's balance sheet looks when it comes to finding that everything has gone well. But let us speak facts! I have taken with me facts, namely reports from the Court of Auditors – very recent reports from the Court of Auditors! . which notes the income trends of recent years. The Court of Auditors is held and determined – and all those sitting in the Court of Auditors know what has been found here! – that since 1998 inflation-adjusted incomes have not increased, that there has been real income losses, and even continues with regard to pensioners. I quote: Referenced to the price index for pension households In real terms, pensioners are getting even less in mid-year pensions. We do not only note this, but we have therefore brought an action before the Constitutional Court in order to reverse these unfair pension payments and these decisions in Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is that wage taxpayers, namely the working population, are increasingly being left to die. Thus, wage tax revenues in 2000 amount to €14.5 billion, in 2005 at €17 billion, in 2007 at €19.7 billion, and if there is no wage tax reform, the working population will pay €22 billion in wage tax in 2009. In other words, it will have to pay € 7.7 billion compared to 2000. In other words, the money is shamelessly taken out of the hands of the working population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Under the rule this means – and we know that too for years! – that the Austrians' money bags are empty as never before, that in fact each second does not deal with their income, that 7 percent of the professionals even notice that they do not get over the rounds despite their work, and 44 percent say that they are still on the rounds according to current studies. [[The speaker holds the front page of an issue of the “Small Newspaper” with the headline: “Money bags empty as never before. Each second laments’ in height]] So more than 50 percent of the population is no longer dealing with the money they earn. On the one hand, this is due to the fact that there has been no wage tax reform for years and that it is long overdue and that, of course, life has become extremely expensive in parallel. If you look at current statistics on price increases only from December 2006 to February 2008, you can hardly believe this: In this period, pasta was expensive by more than 70 percent, oil by 40 percent, orange juice by 30 percent. Basic foods are subject to an extreme price increase. And under the rule: The money is not enough, while on the other hand, managers in recent years have more than doubled their incomes and have top-level references, such as as the board of directors at the OMV, of € 2.8 million a year. This goes so much further, up to the current Court of Auditors report, where it is noted that the Austrian Bundesbahnen from 2005 to 2006 will receive the Board of Directors of ÖBB Holding AG by 41 percent more, in the field of ÖBB service by 84 percent, and in the field of ÖBB real estate by 45 percent more. No one understands! In Tyrol too, we have only recently experienced an example. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] At TIWAG, Altlandesrat Konrad became a fighter with 18 500 € monthly. At three years, this is €660 000. And then the head of state goes here and says he does not know these contracts. That is, the gap between the poor and the rich is increasing exorbitantly. We need to see that we can relieve the wide population, finally go down with income and wage tax rates and halve VAT on food or food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9257	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9278	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to follow the usual words of Mr Vice-Chancellor. However, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, I would have expected you, if you have already chosen the topic of the current hour, to make the formulation a little more serious, because if you already call the current hour off with “citizens”, I hope that you and your group and your government partner will be able to understand how to really relieve people in the future. But until now, in the last 14, 15 months, you have done exactly the opposite: You have increased 13 taxes, fees and taxes, you have raised the social partners to the constitutional level and you have extended the legislative period to 5 years – and you have argued over the last 14 months. This is your balance sheet of the last months! This is in no way in any way related to the present hour and to what you have written in it. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I believe that if you have a praise on economic development today, then you should also say honestly that inflation is a good part of it, Minister of State for Economic Affairs and Labour. ==References== In March, in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, a study commissioned whether prices in Austria had increased. Mr Bundesminister to see if the prices in Austria have increased You don't have to do a study, but you just have to go shopping or drink yourself, then you'll see that the prices have increased, as people have told you all the time. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For example, if the Competition Commission and its chairman Klaus Wejwoda demand a serious deal about the role of the public hand or demand to take a look at it once, I would have expected you, if you commissioned a study on the pressures in Austria, to try to find out the reasons why this has come about. That's obvious: If you increase taxes and taxes and fees on the one hand as a state of Austria – including individual countries – then this inevitably leads to an increase in the price of the goods. As I said, this is obvious, everyone knows it in the economy. But there are countries that deal with inflation very, very responsibly, such as Carinthia. The social Carinthia, which has so to speak entered the Champions League of the Social States, has under the head of state [[OBJECTIVES]] Jörg Haider proved that a country can compensate for the noticeable burden that citizens have to bear: with baby money, with school start money, with mother money, but also with a cost compensation. These are targeted measures that compensate the costs of the federal government. This is understood by responsible social policy! Otherwise, it is in Vienna, where living has become more expensive by 6 percent, where one takes 100 million more over sewer and wastewater fees and lets these amounts flow into the budget. This cannot be a social policy! The mayor of Vienna is a social democrat. So, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something wrong with the connection. But this federal government is planning a further tax as an important step. Instead of effectively fighting inflation, we are now discussing capital growth taxation. Have you ever thought about what this growth tax means for those 1.5 million Austrians who have received foreign currency credits that finance their loans through price gains, which have received €47 billion in loans? Has the SPÖ thought about what this means for those employees involved in companies, such as the Post, Airport AG or OMV, where employee participation is an essential asset and a noticeable motivation to believe in the company? You want to drive them into a tax burden now? That can't be your goal! This will not help you to relieve the middle class whose discharge you have all written on your flags. A large number of press releases can be found that the medium-sized person is now at the centre of the tax policy consideration. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The super-rich will not reach you, they have long been abroad with their capital. So, this policy is a relapse in the eighties. This cannot help to develop Austria, ladies and gentlemen of the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9373	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:26:00]] Objections against the agenda as set out in § 50(1) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9394	We are now entering the joint debate on the objections of Mr Heinz-Christian Stracheund Ing. Peter Westenthalresponsible for decommissioning Agenda item 1 from the agenda. As agreed at the President's Conference, one speaker per group has a speaking time of 5 minutes each in this debate. We are going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9430	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have today requested this objection debate and we want to maintain that it is really sad and all the traditions of Austrian parliamentarianism and The House disagrees with the fact that on Monday this week there was no attempt to achieve unanimity in the presidential – contrary to every tradition, as has been said. The votes of the Austrian Freedom Party on the part of SPÖ, the ÖVP and also the green "chamber" have not been taken care to set the agenda unanimously, but they have decided by force to treat the EU reform, EU reform or the European Union Constitution today against the interests of 80 percent of the Austrians. In this way, the principle of unanimity has been acted on in a miserable way. This does not correspond to the habits of this House! It is also not in line with the Austrian Parliament's practices if a steam roller is used against the majority of the Austrian population over their interests, as is being tried here today. In addition, as has happened in recent weeks, 80 percent of Austrians who insist on their right to referendum, which is enshrined in the Austrian Constitution in Article 1 in Article 44 and also in Article 50, and who demand it and who are constitutionally loyal, are still being defamated as left and right marginal groups. This procedure is more than tedious overall; I say this in this openness. We request that Agenda item 1 be referred back to the Constitutional Committee, a suspension of the EU reform treaty from today's agenda and a preparation in the Constitutional Committee for a constitutional referendum on this issue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would point out that in the debate on the EU reform treaty, which has also been held very frequently in recent weeks, experts not too long ago, namely in 2005, such as Professor Heinz Mayer and Professor Theo Öhlinger, rightly said that this reform and constitutional treaty can only enter into force by means of a referendum. Unfortunately, God has suddenly abandoned these two legal experts or constitutional lawyers, so that, despite identical content in the reform treaty, they no longer express their opinion today. But other constitutional lawyers, such as the Doyen of Austrian Constitutional Law, the former Minister of Justice Professor Dr. Klecatsky, are of this opinion, up to European constitutional lawyers such as Dr. Albrecht Schackschneider or Professor Hollaender. But many other professors have taken a very clear legal opinion on this question. Yes, even the former Constitutional Court President Adamovich writes in his opinion to the President of the Federal Republic Dr. Heinz Fischer that it is in the reform treaty that it is a accession to a new treaty to a new constitution, if one wants to do so, and of course one has a referendum on it. We have had a referendum on accession to the European Union, in which the majority of the Austrians have said yes. However, there were 15 Member States in the European Union at the time, and since then much has changed. The Austrian population has not been asked whether it wants an EU enlargement from 15 to 27 Member States. Neither has the Austrian population been asked – and will it not now, if it goes to you, to Red, Black and Green – whether it wants to replace the Austrian constitution in its core competence, give up and move to Brussels, which means that Austria is no longer independent and sovereign in many areas, namely in terms of policy areas where veto rights disappear, such as in the areas of environment, transport, education and research, which then are no longer in our sovereignty. That means, Nuclear policy and genetic engineering could then be imposed on us. The Austrian population is rightly concerned about all of this, and we should take it seriously – and not betroth the Austrian population as you do! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] They detest hundreds of thousands of citizens who have signed a petition and – I have come to the conclusion of my statements – also those twenty thousand people who have demonstrated at Ballhausplatz in the last few weeks and also yesterday for their right to hold a referendum, which you want to deny and walk with their feet today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9503	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9530	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian Federal Government! Today, we from BZÖ are trying to start, so to speak, a final attempt at this objection debate – at the airport, one would say, a Last Call, Last Exit – to convince you that what you are doing today is a mistake, especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the political parties' political groups. That is why we want to withdraw Agenda item 1, the EU Treaty, from the agenda, and we hope that you will support it because there are good reasons for that. We want to make a referral request to get rid of this item on the agenda. Why we want this is quite simple: There is a single question that today has not been able to answer any single or so strong EUphoric or any follower of this Treaty, neither the Foreign Minister, nor the Federal Chancellor, nor the government groups, although this question is relatively simple. Maybe you can answer her today. The question is: Why does Austria have to today, 9th? April 2008, when the eighth EU country ratified this Treaty? There is no reasonable reason for this! There's just no such thing – except you get something for it, Federal Chancellor! Maybe we'll get a post; Klubobmann Dr. Schussel may be laughing. Maybe we'll get a warm handshake, an embrace of the chancellor, a cheekkuss, a twickerbussi. I do not know what you will get to ratify this EU Treaty today as the eighth country, without proper information without the people being informed about it and without a comprehensive discussion. That is why we want to reject this agreement today! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The whole thing's being whipped through. ==References== In January 2008, there was the “fall of sin” in the President: In the presidency, one has said at one time: Now we must ratify the EU Treaty! – and without reason. Then there were only four Constitutional Committees which we left out of protest because of Parliament's action. Only four Constitutional Committees! And here, eight weeks later, this contract is being whipped here by the High House. And that's why we're asking you why this is the case, because there's only one reason: They obviously want to slow down the people! There are 15,000 certified signatures from Carinthia, and these are not signatures that have been somehow collected on the street with lists, but more than 15,000 people have gone to the office, have been legitimated and have signed for a popular survey there. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Huber Auer: ridiculous 5 percent!]] And suddenly you put this popular survey on the 9th. April so that you can interrupt this People's Survey Initiative and so that people can no longer vote. That is bad, that is not democratic, and that is against the opinion of the Austrian people, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But there is also a general discomfort. Even today, still on the day of ratification, there is a general dissatisfaction, even from the Foreign Minister, who still says, as in the newspapers, that: Well, the contract is already illegible! and it will work to ensure that in future contracts are better understood and legible. Even the Foreign Minister says that this treaty is incomprehensible and difficult to understand. Dr. Gusenbauer also raised criticism points and said that the Charter of Fundamental Rights does not apply to all countries; that there are so many opt-outs for other countries, he does not like either. Even the advocates of this Treaty are criticizing it. It is not easy to ratify it today and thus to pass over the interests of the people! You greens are particularly interesting: What is that, a “critical yes”, as I heard yesterday from Mrs Glavischnig? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We are thinking about the future!]] Madam President, what is a ‘critical yes’? If you buy a car that doesn't drive, you also say a "critical yes" in the sense: It's not driving, but it's a yes!Unknown term type: "%s".? This “critical yes” presents the following problem: With your party – the leader of your party – you have long removed from the origins of the civil movement from which your party was formed, because precisely these citizens' initiatives, with Freda Meissner-Blue at the head, one of the founding dams of the time, are today for a referendum, and all the NGOs we know are not just the Green Group in Parliament. There you should consider whether this is the right way! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yes, even Members of this House have no idea of this Treaty. So you can read in a weekly newspaper that Mrs Anita Fleckl said she didn't read the contract completely. Anna Franz and Claudia also said this. But the best thing is that Parliamentary Peter Stauber from SPÖ – and I am particularly interested in his private contribution today – has read the question “Have you read the Treaty of Lisbon?” “Only parts of it, I admit that honestly. We have not yet been in a body in the SPÖ “talking about the EU Treaty” – that is what the honourable Member Stauber said. And you want to ratify this treaty today, which you've never talked about and which you haven't even read? That's a shame! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Go with us, put this Treaty back, and let the discussion on this also take place in your group. Mrs Foreign Minister and Mr Bundeskanzler, allow the discussion on this Treaty! If we reject this agreement today, we can still ratify it in autumn! But I'm telling you: In the meantime, both in Ireland and in Carinthia, a referendum and a popular survey will have taken place, which will clearly express the opinion of the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9624	Next, Mr Magistrate. Arbitrators to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9645	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We have dealt with the EU Treaty and its importance for Austria in a very detailed and thorough manner, both within the political groups and within the House, at several meetings in the EU's main committee and also in the Constitutional Committee. There were many intensive meetings, but unfortunately, one has to say, Mr Westenthaler has never come to these meetings with his BZÖ, he has always remained away from protest. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Out of protest!]] No debate, Mr Westenthaler, is not a democratic style! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] We could have – and you too, Mr Westenthaler – heard there the most important experts in the country, the professors on various topics, what their opinions and their opinions on this treaty are. It was important that we could question them and discuss them with them. There were also public forums in Parliament, with all political groups and also with the public. I consider this to be very good, and I hope that I am actually sure that this critical dialogue will continue in the future. The debate was, of course, the constitutional issue, and, in particular, with regard to the constitutional question, all well-known constitutional judges say: It is legitimate and right that Parliament ratifys this EU Treaty. [[Abg. That's not what Klecatsky says! He says the opposite!]] There is therefore no overall change in the Austrian federal constitution, which would make a referendum necessary. There is no assignment of sovereignty rights, because the assignment of sovereignty rights that has been effected by EU accession is also at the time with the referendum on 12 December. In June 1994 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations It is therefore right that the Austrian Parliament should assume this responsibility here today. We all, I think, have received e-mails, discussions, discussions where many people have expressed concerns, fears and concerns. And I believe that many of these concerns, almost all of them, can be overcome by real facts. One just needs to read, read quotations from passages from the reform treaty, and one sees that much of what you tell is misinformation, and that much, yes, almost everything you tell in this context does not even exist in this reform treaty. Let's get together: Neutrality remains unaffected. This is what the honourable Member Scheibner has said here at the panel discussion. [[Abg. Scheibner: But also say why! Because you abolished her!]] Austria's sovereignty remains. The EU is becoming more democratic. [[Abg. Strache: What is democratic about losing Austrian rights without being asked?- Oh, my God!]] The European Parliament will be strengthened and national parliaments will also be strengthened. There is a desire for citizens as a means of direct democratic participation. And there are even fundamental rights, individually applicable fundamental rights, including fundamental social rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I think we must also say that the EU and this reform treaty are not the yellow egg. We can also see some critical aspects of the European Union. For example, it will be our task to fight in the future for this European Union to become a social union. However, we also need the reform treaty in order to be able to fight for it to become a social union. The reform treaty is a compromise, but as a compromise, it takes the European Union a step further. I am in favour of everything that the European Union is taking a step further, even if at times I would like to see a bigger step forward. But even the small step is a step in the right direction. And that is why, I believe, it is right for us to conduct this debate and decision-making in Parliament today, and I very much hope that we will be able to hold a technical, factual and an argument-based discussion here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9740	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Schüssel. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9761	Madam President. High house! A little chatting is allowed to me to the scarves of the Freedom Party: Either the EURO has already begun – or has the football club changed to “Austrian Freedom Ballesters” in the short term? – This question will be allowed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. We stand with Austria, Mr Schüssel, while you are a European buck!]] But, honestly, We are all patriots, and in Parliament we can discuss everything. The accusation that this is being carried over is that this is being whipped through, I can only relativize a little, ladies and gentlemen. We have been discussing a better treaty for eight years, since Nice, and we have had an intensive debate about the reform treaty itself, that is, the mandate, in June last year. We've been dealing with this for hours in the main committee. We then received the reform treaty in October, approved the Intergovernmental Conference in November, then held another main committee on this subject in December before the European Council itself approved the draft. We then received the draft very quickly in January from the Federal Government, very quickly, and then dealt very intensively with it in four full-day meetings. But again: This matter does not begin with this reform treaty, but actually in 2000, and I only remember – because it is sometimes written in the newspapers too, it is too little information – that at that time, in 2001, we introduced and decided on a joint resolution by all the political parties for the establishment of a Convention; this Convention was with an Austrian initiative. The Convention was then set up for over a year, with the participation of all the political groups here in the House; it included European Parliamentarians and national parliamentarians. And we have reached unanimity in the Convention itself – it was not by the government, but the parliamentarians have reached unanimity! – in the presentation of a text of the Constitution, which was then weakened a little in an Intergovernmental Conference, but was essentially sent to the House in 2003 in this form. We received the first text from the Convention in June and then the full text in September. We then handled the Intergovernmental Conference very quickly. And from 2003 to 2005, where the House has accepted this Constitutional Treaty with a vote against – that is, by a broad majority – we have conducted an intensive, years-long discussion. So: Now to do as if there's going to be husk, husk something made, is just wrong. And it is also wrong when it is said that Austria is now the first country to ratify it. With permission: We can also be a little self-confident and say that if we think it is right, we want to approve such a contract, and not when the Irish have just voted or the French have expressed their opinion. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am a perhaps old-fashioned but convinced representative of the parliamentary system, i.e. representative democracy, but I say quite openly: We people's representatives decide on very important issues that affect individual citizens in every situation of their lives: Whether construction law is whether the social security issue is pension reform, education issues, tax reform, discharge, budget, everything concerns citizens. And I do not see why a decision by the Austrian Parliament and thus directly elected representatives should be less valuable than another form of opinion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Because a popular vote means directly lived democracy!]] That is why I am in favour, and we will certainly say yes to this reform treaty. In terms of content, we will discuss it later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9851	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9872	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! High house! We Greens do not join the demands of the FPÖ and the BZÖ – that will not surprise you. But I tell you, we do not join them because we do not want everything to remain in Europe with the old. We want to change Europe towards a social and a democratic Union! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why we are convinced that this reform treaty must also be approved if, as I am convinced, there can be much better proposals and opportunities and prospects for Europe, for this European Union than they are set out in this reform Treaty. [[Abg. Street: EURATOM Treaty!]] [[Abg. Street: The EURATOM Treaty is your perspective!]] Yes, I believe that much is missing in this reform treaty. Yes, I believe that the Federal Government could have done its information and communication work on this reform treaty better. But I have now noticed in the debate: FPÖ and BZÖ have not criticized the lack of information on this reform treaty. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's still coming!]] [[Abg. You didn't listen to that!]] You didn't criticize that! On the contrary, the BZÖ has for months stopped working in the relevant committee at all! You have refused to discuss a better Europe, where it should have taken place, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yes, I believe that the Federal Government should not have just turned a dark blue and a pale blue listing with a telephone number and a web address to the reform treaty. That's too little, and that's too little. [[The speaker holds two newspapers in the height]] This is not a discussion, it is not a dispute for Europe, it is not a matter of content. Where to go the trip? – People want to know that, and they also have good reasons for being dissatisfied with this Europe, but also with the Federal Government. Of course, development in this Europe is disparate. Of course, it is true that not all benefit from the prosperity promised to the people – on the contrary! There needs to be more effort, ladies and gentlemen, but certainly not the position of those who say: We are not here, we do not want this social Europe in the Charter of Fundamental Rights. [[Abg. Strache: Let's not let up, that's right!]] That is – and I have heard from you – only political ideology, we do not need it! – We say: That's what we need! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: No justification for the Austrians! The Austrians don't want to be excused! I'll give you that!]] I'll tell you the following: I understand all the fears and fears that have been expressed by a wide variety of sides in recent weeks and months. There were too few answers to this. If we receive e-mails and letters in which it is said that the collective agreements in Europe are abolished by this reform treaty, then you say, yes, that is so. But that's not true, on the contrary: The Charter of Fundamental Rights makes it impossible for collective agreements to be abolished! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Look at what happened in Denmark! You have no idea!]] This is a modest progress, but important progress, and that is why, I say, this Charter of Fundamental Rights needs to be implemented. I'm dissatisfied because there could be more in there. For example, I could imagine that every European, every European, has a right to live in a Charter of Fundamental Rights. Why not? Everyone should have a maximum social rights, everyone should have the right to participate, everyone should be involved. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to change Europe for the better. We are not satisfied if everything remains as it is, because that would be the worst, ladies and gentlemen, dearest.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10034	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the votes. One application by Heinz-Christian Stracheund is submitted by Ing. Peter Westenthalerfor removing from the agenda the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, including Protocols, Annex and Final Act of the Intergovernmental Conference, including those attached declarations. I have one vote on these requests. We are therefore voting on the objections of Mr Heinz-Christian Stracheund Ing. Peter Westenthaler on the decommissioning of Agenda item 1 from today's agenda. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of these objections to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[10:52:26]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10094	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10263	The following templates have also been received: Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Montenegro, of the other part, including the Final Act, including those attached to them (520 of the Supplements), Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Albania, of the other part, including the Final Act, including those attached declarations and amending protocols (521 of the Supplements). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning these items to a committee and to place it on one of the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. That's why I'm doing this. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10303	The debate on points 1 to 6, 8 to 10, 11 to 13 and 14 and 15 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10327	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. A day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green and Freeman each 108 minutes as well as BZÖ 63 minutes. As announced in the Presidential Conference, the meeting will be held live by ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 1.15 p.m. to 3 p.m. For the period of television transmission after the current hour from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. – interruption from 1 p.m. to 1 p.m. – the following time agreement is made: A group round with 15 minutes each, Federal Chancellor with 14 minutes, a group round with 10 minutes each, Foreign Minister with 14 minutes, a group round with 7 minutes each, vice chancellor with 10 minutes, a group round with 7 minutes each and another minister with 10 minutes. The first round of political groups will be carried out in the order of the Free, SPÖ, BZÖ, ÖVP and Greens. Further rounds of political groups take place according to the strength ratio of the clubs. The President-in-Office of the Council shall, at the latest before the beginning of the previous round – after consultation with the presidents of the club – evenly distribute the remaining speaking time to the political groups for the last round. Actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast has ended. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:55:34]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (417, e.g._Other Organiser Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, including Protocols, Annex and Final Act of the Intergovernmental Conference, including those attached to them (“Reform Treaty”) (484, e.g.) 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 284/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues, on the implementation of a new ratification in the form of a referendum of a new Treaty for the European Union (485, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 343/A(E) by Mr Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues on the maintenance of Austrian neutrality (486 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 394/A by Mr Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act, BGBl. No. 1/1930, amended (487, e.g.) 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 407/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues on the behaviour of the Federal Chancellor in the course of the negotiations on a “ Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community” to the European Council on 18 and 19. October 2007 (488 d.a.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues on the conduct of a popular survey in accordance with: Art. 49b B-VG on the EU reform treaty (483 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10449	We now come to points 1 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. [[The representatives of the ÖVP put small European and Austrian flags on their Members' benches.]] There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. 15 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10486	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My dear Austrians! The Freedom Party shall submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I say very clearly at the beginning of my speech: We liberals stand with Austria, we say to Austria, we say to a federal Europe. But we say no to this completely lacking European Union, which is to become a federal construction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This House met in 2005 and voted with all the votes in favour of this Constitutional Treaty by SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and the then newly established BZÖ, where only one, the last-lived liberals, represented the interests of the Austrians at the time in the Hohe Haus, Barbara Rosenkranz, with backbone and character. And you can only thank her for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we had only one member of the Liberal Party here in the House at the time, we already have 21 Members in Parliament today, 21 Members representing the interests of the Austrians and ensuring their respect. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: 20, when you take it exactly – Stadler!]] I say that a European constitutional dictatorship, just as you intend to ratify it here today in this House without a referendum, means an attack on the Austrian Constitution and also an attack on our Austrian democracy, we are experiencing a further abolition of our sovereignty in many areas of this reform treaty. And at the same time, you want to emancipate the Austrian population, the Austrian citizen. It therefore needs a referendum in Austria, because it is about our Austrian constitutional law to change our Austrian constitution. It is not for nothing in the Austrian federal constitution in Article 1: The “right goes forth from the people. ” – You, SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens, want the people to have the right to do so. This is your way of life. I say that is a cold expropriation for many – including legal experts. This represents for many a kind of modern constitutional breach, yes, also of modern constitutional coup. – The founding fathers of the Second Republic would rightly turn in the grave if they had to watch today. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: No, I don't think so!]] You, Mr Gusenbauer, as Federal Chancellor, you, Mr Molterer, as Vice Chancellor, but also you, Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen, want to become lovers in the European Union. But you are making the Austrians stepchildren because you are abandoning the Austrians in this crucial question and, in fact, putting a muzzle around the Austrians – and then at the same time, this government can also put a short leash on the European Union. This can be given as a symbol to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The speaker handed over a muzzle to Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Is that the one from Hans-Peter Martin?]] [[Abg. May. Hauser holds a red and white-red transparency with the label “ÖsterREICH” in the height.]] It is a symbol that the Austrians perceive in this way. On the consumer protection side, every citizen is warned to sign a contract if he has not read it carefully if he has not read the small print and is not sure. In any doubt, every consumer protectionist says, don't sign before you subjugate yourself to a contract by which you may end up paying pretty much on it! That's exactly what we've experienced: You have already manipulated the Austrians into a European Union under red and black, promising that there will be a “Gitti Ederer-Tusher” that everything will be cheaper and cheaper. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That the anonymity will remain!]] And all these promises are broken up like a bubble of soap! The opposite has occurred! But all those who warned at the time were ridiculed by you: all those who warned at the time that this European Union will be the head of globalisation insanity – an industrial lobby that will be maintained there instead of social policy – all those who have said there will be waves of inflation, there will be inflation on us, it will be worse and more expensive for the population. And that also confirms the WIFO, according to which we are in the purchasing power worse than 15 years ago. That's exactly what happened! But they want to take the next step and again manipulatively promise the Austrians the greatest – where the bright awakening comes afterwards, such as the reduction of social achievements. They are ready to make possible today a centralist state of Europe, which no one in Europe wants. The peoples of Europe are not asked in votes at all! After the referendums in France and Holland, one is no longer ready to make popular elections possible, because one is afraid of the people. The people have a good sense of reason, and they do not want a centralist state where we are to become a purely administrative body and state of the European Union. As in ancient Rome: We are supposed to be a small province of Brussels! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the Greens.]] That's exactly what people don't want! In the last few weeks, we have heard many anointed words of ÖVP, of social democrats, of government representatives who have said – precisely on the occasion of the commemorative year that was one of the main statements –: At that time no politician believed in the independence and viability of Austria! – And that was rightly condemned and condemned. But I'm asking you quite openly today: Why Believe Are you not referring to the independence and viability of our Austria, which has been outstanding in recent decades?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel:... we in the EU are excellently claiming!]] I believe in this Austria, as many Austrians believe in their home country! Let us look at this EU Treaty and consider the content: If this EU reform treaty and Constitutional Treaty are to enter into force, then our neutrality will be undermined once again. We've already experienced a lot of caves. Petersberg's decisions on Austria's obligation to provide assistance in an attack on the European Union were already a first cave-out. On the question of how we break our neutrality, Parliament has the power of decision. Now you go here and support a reform treaty that even says that terrorist attacks of mutual EU assistance will be required, and that even suggests that the EU's preventative attack war can be possible outside the European Union. And you say that's not a hallucination of neutrality?- Oh, my God! – Of course, you have to decide here in the House, in what way; you still have. But the party is determined by this. The kind of assistance is decided here, but neutrality has nothing more to do with it! Secondly, An EU Treaty providing for common foreign policy. - Yes, "beautiful": How does the common foreign policy fit into a neutral foreign policy in Austria? If there is a common foreign policy, then the Austrian Government cannot live any more neutral foreign policy! – The second point where you show that neutrality in reality should no longer be existent. In the same way, you have lived in Kosovo, where this Federal Government has unlawfully supported a unilateral declaration of independence, where you have also broken neutrality and acted in a partial way. Thirdly, The death penalty hidden in declarations of the EU reform treaty. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel beats his hands together and shakes his head.]] Although the death penalty is officially rejected in the reform treaty, I quote from the Treaty which you have not read – it is found in statements that exist – and statements are legal basis! – also the wording that in the case of uprising and insurrection, the targeted killing and death penalty should be possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutors Dr. Stummvoll and Reheis.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Fourth: The Lisbon Treaty strengthens the EU Parliament. That's your argument. – What does that mean if the EU Parliament becomes stronger? – The fact that the Austrian Parliament and the Austrian State are being weakened because they are taken away and these competences are transferred from Austria to Brussels! [[Abg. May. Lunacek:... this Parliament is being strengthened!]] And we find this in all political fields, except in the field of foreign policy and in the areas of security policy. There's another veto there. In all other political fields, we lose the right to veto! And you seriously believe that in the field of foreign policy and in parts of the security policy of Mr. Chancellor Gusenbauer will prevail against the European Union – if it is not able to enforce the EIA today?- Oh, my God! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] - That's ridiculous! We no longer have a veto right in all other political fields – environmental policy, transport, education, social affairs. That is, we give up our achievements and rights, we give up our rights in these areas, we relinquish rights to Brussels. And that's what I'm doing right now. As a green person, where you represent yourself as a natural and environmental party?- Oh, my God! – People in Austria will be grateful to you. Since accession to the EU, we have an increase in transit traffic in Tyrol from 800 000 to 2 million per year. Well, thank you! This has brought about EU accession to the Tyroleans! They come from the Greens today and no longer live any environmental and nature conservation policy at all. They support a reform Treaty of a European Union which, in the end, also wants to define the EURATOM Treaty, which aims to ensure the doubling of contributions – where you have already agreed here in the House for the first time, when the annex to the EU Constitutional Treaty was. You show today that you have already expelled the real greens from your party and left a Gucci fraction that is now operating the business of the nuclear and genetic engineering lobby. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the Greens.]] The Austrians will take a close look at this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have – fifthly – the situation that you are selling today as a success of red, black and green, that you can then show the “yellow card” in the future of the European Union. – Yes, really “toll”: We may show the yellow card, but the red card is no longer possible. – They will laugh at us when we show them the yellow card! What does a yellow card bring if I can't show the red card at the end? – This is all a ridiculous argument, which you have presented as a positive in recent weeks. They are positive that 1 million people in Europe in the future have the opportunity to sign a popular desire, but it has no legal obligation to do so – just like They have dealt with this in recent years in the popular desire against nuclear energy, against Temelín, against which genetic engineering is handled – in turn rubbed and not taken seriously. There is no legal obligation! And that's exactly what you're trying to sell as a success?- Oh, my God! As net payers, we are allowed to pay more and more net contributions, but we have nothing to say! In the future, we should not even be able to send a Commissioner because the Commission will be reduced and there will be no more rights for small countries like Austria to set up a Commissioner. [[Abg. Oillinger: For the Commissioner, however, we do not pay a net contribution!]] The European Union will be able to introduce new taxes in the future. It is already the kerosene tax and much more in discussion. This goes all the way to the area of social affairs, where Mazal, who I hope you will not go down as a professor of freedom and social rights, says the following – I quote him –: If we look at today's Constitutional Treaty, it means that "the current social level cannot be kept under the aspect of justice and solidarity of the Member States". He says that we need to “resign ”“ from our social levels. ” This shows and proves that this social state of Austria, which we are rightly proud of and which we want to preserve, is lost and is being lost and that we have to abandon it in future development – because it is a European Union that today operates pure industrial and corporate lobbyism and has nothing to do with “social” at all. [[Abg. Oils: You have laboriously sawed in recent years on the social state!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you are putting on our Austrian eagle chains today – chains that we have sprung and that you put on again – and you are selling our Austria with skin and hair. They send our Bundesadler to Brussels to rupture him so that he can be thrown into the soup pot and he comes out again as a boiled soup chicken. This is a behaviour of Eurocratic bundles that act today with an impertinence that one has to believe they are masochistically preoccupied by constantly slipping around in front of Brussels on the knees and not keeping backbone in the interest of Austria. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Nice speech! Nice talk! Don't talk like that!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The members of the FPÖ are detaching a transparency with the inscriptions: “Free & neutral instead of EU-Knecht without a right!”, “FPÖ – secure referendum!”]] They demise the Austrians and at the same time also detest them, are removed and prepotent by going here and saying: We here in Parliament have eaten the beauty with the spoon! What do we need to ask the people about this? – They want to sell and manipulate the people for stupid. And I say, You will get the bill presented for this! They are afraid of the people, but the people have a good sense of right and wrong. And where injustice is right, I will raise my voice loud, and there will be resistance to duty! And I say goodbye and at the end with Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach: [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP]] The election day will be payday, and I will add: God protect Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10846	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mr Klubobmann Strache has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10959	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. Speech time: 15 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, your transparency has been shown. I can ask you to roll it back in. - Thank you. Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10987	Madam President. High house! After the speech of Klubobmann Strache, I was really worried – and he also underlined this when he said he said something “to say goodbye”. This was such a depressing access that I almost felt that the blue group is now getting up and jumping collectively into the Danube Channel. [[Abg. Strache: Yes, you bury Austria!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I think a little bit of future optimism is probably appropriate. [[Abg. Strache: Popular vote is appropriate!]] You know, after I hear that, I have to say it would be more honest if you just said: Exit from the European Union! – Saying Just that! [[Abg. Street: A federal Europe instead of centralism, that is the point!]] Tell me you don't see any more perspective inside, you want to leave the European Union! [[Abg. Street: A federal Europe instead of centralism, and a referendum!]] Say it, tell it, and that's why things are clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: People's vote! People's vote!]] And then I'll tell you something. What you suggest when you say: Exit from the European Union, that is to say, that Austria should then appear alone in the future, so much so one against all. ==References====External links== January 1994 in a truly impressive comment entitled “Look forward”: "Or do we want to die of a euro-sclerosis while there are provocative mergers in other continents? Do we voluntarily choose a crisis-sensitive, dangerous dwarf ash, or is our old longing for Paneuropa exerted?” – quote. And there's nothing to add to this today, which is a very good quote, and it's actually proof of what it's all about: If we want to secure and perhaps even expand our social levels – you, Mr Klubobmann Strache, said today a sentence that we really need to take into account in this debate, namely that membership in the European Union means saying goodbye to the social level – then membership in the European Union will only allow us to really fight and secure our social levels if the 27 Member States really share this view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's why we have lost it gradually in recent years!]] It is quite irresponsible to start a mood here, where this path will remain at the end of the day, because I look at this Austria, if we want to compete as “one against all” against the giant markets in China, India, the United States, with the huge opportunities available there, with the sales markets, with investment opportunities, as a country with 8 million inhabitants with our market! [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: That's all we have!]] Whether it fits you or not: Europe remains a very essential aspect with or without the European Union, and it is a more useful and effective aspect of this global competition when Europe unites and unites and acts together. You should, in fact, criticize the fact that it has been so often neglected to act together! They should actually say that it would have been better if we had a common foreign, security and economic policy there and there – and not say that we all split up into 27 file pieces, and then we will explain to the other how the world is going. [[Abg. We don't want Chad, Mr. Klubobmann! We don't want Chad!]] [[Abg. Strache: Switzerland lives up to this wonderful!]] So it won't run, so it hasn't happened historically! – And here it is, please, about fates, about 8 million Austrians, who are delivered by us responsible, politicians, future prospects, have a claim that these future prospects are being delivered, which are really perspectives – and not from the moment that mood has arisen, according to the motto: And what happens when we are no longer in the European Union, I am not responsible for that anymore, because then there is no longer me! – This is not responsible policy, Mr Klubobmann Strache, I would like to tell you in all clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Why don't you vote?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But we don't ask the people about it?]] No, no, I looked at that very thing: the plates at the demonstrations, we hear, we read the emails, and we take it seriously, and we know that there are fears here. And no one is driving over the fears – no one, no one who has expressed his criticism here! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] No, no, we certainly do not do that, but this must be taken up and incorporated into politics, into national policy and into policy in the European Union! [[Abg. Strache: You refuse to vote! What are you doing? Refuse to do the right to the people!]] This is to be clearly stated once and for all. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But let's think back: What was going on in Europe? – Since 1945 we have been working on the great war that existed before 1945; two major world wars, national contradictions, dictatorships. – For example, this Treaty, which is now being adopted here, enshrines freedom of expression, includes a vote against the dictatorships that have existed here. Think of the Franco dictatorship, think of Communism – all this has been overcome! This must be secured: Never again war on the European continent!, that is the crucial question. And that's a value in itself! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: See Bombardement of Belgrade!]] If we want to safeguard prosperity and if we want to have the strength to compete with an economic policy – with China, with the United States, with all those who are in competition with Europe – then we must rather think about how we better organize ourselves, how we are more effective, how we also resist some attractions of those who misunderstand Europe as a neoliberal economic model, and who then also feel when voting that there is no longer this loyalty and this consent in Europe. This is not because people want to be protected here because they want what has been built up in social state traditions to be secured in the future in global competition. [[Abg. Here we go, please. That's where Professor Mazal says, the opposite is the case!]] But you can only do this in large space, not if, as Hans Digand wrote, you come with the dwarf axis. As a dwarf you are a dwarf, and big you are, and if you are big, you are competitive, and if you are a dwarf, you stand in your garden as a dwarf and get maximum rain and nothing else. [[Abg. Strache: Switzerland lives well as a dwarf! Switzerland lives well and neutral as a dwarf!]] And that's nothing, it doesn't deserve Austria! Austria deserves us to join the big room! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And what else is it about? – It is about – and this is also contained in the Treaty – that the General care is secured – what is so important to all of us! In addition – and especially in Austria this is important – stands inside: Health care, pension provision, that we can also ensure the economic, social environment in the future, so that what is so important and so dear to Austrians can remain – perhaps in a more modern, perhaps reformed form, but that it can remain. That's why it's worth fighting! And: Small countries will no longer be able to overrun if they get together. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bitch.]] National parliaments can defend themselves if they have a majority against decisions in Brussels which they do not want. [[Abg. May. Hauser: That's right?]] [[Abg. The Brussels Parliament is still not up-to-date!]] – This is more democracy and no less democracy! There is the introduction of popular desires. If a popular desire has a million signatures, for example against the Renaissance of nuclear energy, then the Commission has to deal with it, then there is the public. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] Then there is the fight against nuclear energy throughout Europe. [[Abg. Strache: Popular desires become the first class! There will be no joy for the citizens!]] – And don’t despair, don’t be depressed, not sit here in the blue and orange rows and let the head hang in the drawer, but sit here uprightly and fight so that we can enforce our demands; that’s not with lowered head that you have! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If there is already a complaint, and many of these... – If you wait a bit, you can go to the stadium anyway and wake up with these towels. [[FPÖ delegates keep red and white-red scarves in height.]] – But I would like to say something to you: It is also about the European Union's ability to act and function. Of course, many have asked: What's going on? The contract is disputed for eight years. I didn't like that well either, actually not at all! Now we have finally met, and now there is this ratification process: in 26 countries without a referendum, in one it is prescribed from the Constitution. [[Abg. Here we go, too!]] That is in Ireland, there it will also take place. However, the ability to act is very important, because, of course, these enlargement processes have given rise to a phase in which this capacity for action was not guaranteed on the inside to the extent. And I've also been one of the critics and I've said: It's going a little fast! Many reports ask how it looks, for example, with corruption in one country or another that has been added. At the head of the anti-corruption fight, we have an Austrian social Democrat, Mr Herbert Bösch, who is really fighting at the top and is opposed to the waste of taxpayers' money. An Austrian! [[Abg. Strache: He hears and feels nothing!]] Do not put the head in the drawer depressedly, but also fight sincerely against these misdevelopments that one has to address! If you want to have credibility in the population, you also have to practice criticism of the European Union, you have to point out wrong developments, but you also have to show developments that can be combated at the same time, if you don't want to, and you can't make yourself and say: I'm so small, I can't do anything! I'm sorry, I'm leaving! – Then I’m even smaller and can do even less. This is not a policy I can identify with and with which, I believe, many in this House, the majority in this House, can certainly not be identified! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Do you know what's important to me? It has always been said that there is now the possibility of making sluggish changes to the Treaty and thus sluggish constitutional changes, and in fact, Brussels now determines what the Constitution looks like in Austria. [[Abg. Strache: Simple prevention procedure and empowerment law!]] - That's a nonsense! Brussels does not have to be determined in relation to the Austrian Constitution! There's no sign! And if anyone believes he has to make changes, there is still the principle of unanimity and thus the right to veto in this point – as in many, many other points. It is not true that veto law has been abolished. [[Abg. That's wrong! That is the untruth!]] On some points it has rightly been abolished because the European Union's ability to act was not guaranteed. And on other points it remains. [[Abg. Strache: This is the untruth, Mr. Klubobmann!]] Austria will remain Austria – I give it to you in writing – but Austria is part of Europe. And that's what it's gonna be like. You should never forget that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Austria has always been a part of Europe!]] Hans Dichand a.k.a. "Cato" wrote yes. January 1994: Yes, but it's about our identity, it's about the opponents of Europe. No one in the European Union loses its identity. – You should read all of this once. He's right! Hans Dichand alias “Cato” is right! No one loses his identity. We all ensure that Austria has its identity in place. And our identity is more than just a cultural one. It's our social state feeling, it's our sense of life, it's about our prosperity. And I say something to you, including as a critic of these enlargements: We have benefited from it. In all these countries, the values of our companies have increased in Easter expansion, we have investments, we have growth in prosperity. It is about the prosperity of the Austrians. If one is to be honestly discussed, one should say that here in the European Union we are with the following consequences: Interestingly, prosperity, social security, even more security after Schengen – even more security! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Abg. Strache: This is seen in the statistics in Lower Austria!]] And on the other hand: If we're out alone, lonely, then what's wrong? – This contrast must be discussed in a serious way. What I am against is when we start with lists of things that are projected into the contract that are not inside at all. That's not a serious discussion anymore. For example, I have read that the death penalty is now being introduced in the back. – The opposite is the case in the Charter. The opposite! Of course there will be no death penalty. The opposite! There is a barrier to the reintroduction of the death penalty. Or: From now on, it says, all have to eat genetically engineered products. - That's a nonsense! Of course this is not the case. The Austrians can continue to consume non-genotechnic food. Of course it is! So that's not right either. It is then said that the EU is speaking in the area of wage fixing. - That's a nonsense! The EU has no competence in wages at all. We also have collective agreements. That's absolutely nonsense at all. Or: It is said that the EU will adopt taxes in the future. - That's a nonsense! The EU has no competence at all to introduce taxes. [[Abg. Bitch: Not until now!]] There's no tax on it. And if you hear all this, you have to say: This is not a contribution that the Austrians can feel that more security is possible for them. That's uncertainty. That's panic. This is unworthy of a responsible policy. This House, this Parliament, which was elected by the Austrians, is expected to assume its responsibility. What are we elected to do here? What are we paid for? [[Abg. Street: That 80 percent of Austrians are taken seriously!]] – Of course for our responsibility! We will therefore take on this responsibility today – for the benefit of Austria, for the benefit of the Austrians – at the same time, together with the fact that it is about the future of Austria that we are facing, namely, optimistic and positive, not backward and depressed, not by being restored and saying: I'm so small, I can't do anything, let me out of the EU! – Then I’m even smaller and can do even less. You know what happens then? – If all of this occurs when we leave the EU if we no longer have these growth in prosperity, if we no longer have it, then you will all be chased away, because then the Austrians will say: That's not what we wanted!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11517	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 15 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11544	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr. Cap, if in your entire opposition period you had been a mere so glowing defender of the European Union in recent years, you would probably have the so-called Comet Syndrome: You'd be hot to this day. You wouldn't have kept that up. I should like to remind you that in your opposition period you were one of the most serious critics in the enlargement question, one of the most serious critics when it was passed over; by the way, your great chairman, Dr. Gusenbauer, whom I can remind you that he was still on 31 December. May 2005 in an interview, then still as an opposition chief, said – I quote him literally –: "Europe has gone away from the real needs of citizens. It is precisely from these errors that we need to learn. Therefore back to the start. The Constitution must be renegotiated and then voted on within the framework of a pan-European referendum.” – Listen, listen! SPÖ Chairman Gusenbauer has been doing quite exactly three years. However, the Constitution has not been completely renegotiated. There have been no other decisions, there has been no referenda. And now a kind of turnaround happens. Mr Cap, what bothers me with your comments, is that you present people who are critical of Europe as bad Europeans, and people who wantlessly implement what is coming from Brussels and Europe, who are good Europeans. On the other hand, I am in agreement with my group, because we are glowing Austrians and also good Europeans, because we are critically questioning what is going to be done by Brussels and the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, I do not understand why it cannot be possible to bring about a referendum – a referendum, a referendum or a referendum, a referendum, a referendum to enable people to be built into it. An EU Commissioner, one who needs to know, one from the centre of the European Union, namely former Commissioner Frits Bolkestein, whom we know, said: “A referendum on the Treaty is necessary to counter the idea that Europe is being forcefully pushed up the people through the back door.” That's what an EU Commissioner says. That's 100 percent right. It is not just about pro and counter, about the arguments and dialogue on the EU Treaty, but it is about winning people to be part of Europe as well. This is only possible if they are integrated into the decisions and let them be part of Europe. This is the only decision we want. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Federal Constitution also states that there should be a referendum on this subject. Therefore, we believe that the European Union, the current form of the EU, is at the moment nothing but a train with high-paid workers, but unfortunately without passengers; without people, it travels through Europe. It has not succeeded in convincing the people of this project. I'll stay with you. I am a glowing Austrian, but also a critical European. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What did you contribute to this?]] Not that it's then again that we're just negative, pessimistic, we don't have a vision: Of course, we also have a vision of a functioning Europe. Our European model is a free, self-confident and self-determined Austria in a secure, peaceful Europe – however, without compulsion, without centralism, without foresight! This is our vision of a functioning Europe. It is a Europe of the peoples, a Europe of freedom of opinion and freedom of expression. This is a vision of a functioning Europe. It is a social Europe, Mr Klubobmann Cap, which is less concerned about the European army than much more about the European poor. There is currently high poverty in the European Union. A Europe with social responsibility, which ultimately also conquers and wins the hearts of the people, because it takes the concerns of the citizens seriously. That is to say, to take people seriously, that is, not to wipe people's decisions and co-determination out of the table, but to take people's concerns seriously as good Europeans, also as critical Europeans. This is our vision of a functioning Europe. That is why we see ourselves as good Europeans as you do, but we have a critical approach. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is now true that we have restrictions in many areas with this Treaty – and this is our central criticism. I really have to say – I admit this here too – that a lot of things have been said wrong in the past few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, from Mr. Strache!]] Yes, you have to admit that. We do not believe that this EU Treaty states that the death penalty is now coming. [[Demonstrative applause by Dr. Schüssel and Dr. Brinek.]] Nor do we think that there is now a special, extra special hallucination of our neutrality, because this has already happened with EU accession. We need to be realistic enough and see that EU accession has, of course, brought about a massive restriction of neutrality in its original sense. But what we already see, ladies and gentlemen, is that, as a result of this EU Treaty, in 181 policy areas, it is not necessary, but can be, to pass through, majority decisions. In 181 policy areas! This includes immigration policy. That is already stated in this EU Treaty. It says that there will be a common immigration and asylum policy in the future. Whether we want it as an Austrian or not, we will no longer be able to agree on it and we will no longer be allowed to decide on it. Although we can say our opinion, we will not be able to do this anymore, because the majority will pass over it and because it does not have Austria in hand, how immigration is regulated, how asylum policy is regulated, and how Austria is getting rid of Austria's handcushion when it comes to an immigration policy that we do not want. First point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second point: We have very, very high environmental and consumer standards in Austria. This is also the point I do not understand with the Greens. In the future, we will also be able to criticise and say that we have such high standards, but we will not be able to prevent them because this will also be in the majority decision-making area in the future, if these standards are lowered and if there are more and more measures to reduce environmental and consumer standards, for example for food. After all, it was just a promise, an identification promise, that a Commissioner of the European Union asked for all products in the European Union to be marked only with “EU” and not with a country of origin. That was a first idea. Although it has been withdrawn, it has already been a first approach, that these consumer standards should also be lowered. I'll tell you: I would rather have the principle of unanimity, where Austria can defend itself and secure its high standards with a veto, because we ultimately owe our citizens that they have a good food and a good supply in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The same is true in health policy. Austria will no longer be able to participate if the European Union decides that health care will happen throughout Europe at the home country’s self-cost price. That's the truth. If in the future a Romanian, a Bulgarian, comes to us to Austria and can be treated with us, then – and this is the model on the table – he will only have to pay for the health and treatment costs of his country of origin, which are substantially below our costs. [[Abg. That's right!]] That is, our health system will be a little more unfinancing – and the Austrians will have to pay it! I want to say something about that. That is where I want to be able to defend myself in the European Union. I do not want to be downgraded to a minority that is being passed over. That is why we are also so critical of what is going on in this Treaty. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: In future, we will not be able to intervene on what new taxes are going on. Then we can shake the head, we can say: Oh, like unfair!, but we will not be able to prevent the European Union from introducing an EU tax if the European Union introduces new VAT, new VAT. We will not be able to prevent that! And this is the The spirit of this treaty, which we reject, is because Austria is becoming a little more selfless and unable to agree. We criticize this, up to transit traffic in Tyrol. To this day the trucks drive us around the ears, the Tyroleans are plagued by this transitlawin. It will still rise – of course! . because the European Union is committed to extending the free movement of goods on the streets. Then we'll show up and say: Yes, we are opposed, we are so poor, through Austria everyone is driving through!, but we will not be able to prevent it because it no longer allows this treaty. That's our total criticism. – Not the death penalty, not any brains, but in the future, EU law will be strengthened against Austrian law. Then we are no longer lord in our own house, but only tenants in the building of Europe. This is not fair, this is not all right with our citizens here in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also pay a very expensive rent as renters in Europe's plate construction. You shouldn't forget that either. Dr. Gusenbauer said we're, per capita, the biggest net payer. Compared to the previous year, when we paid € 300 million net, we will experience a triple of the net contributions to € 860 million next year. I'm of the opinion: If you pay so much and whoever is one of the highest net payers per capita, you also have the right to take part in crucial, vital issues in your country and to say what is right and what is wrong and not to be constantly rejected by the European Union. This is also a question I criticize: So far, there is nothing but bans – now again when smoking – or denunciations – or one hears that 1 billion € per year is simmering into dark channels. That's a number that's fixed in fraud, in corruption. That means there's a Job Message coming from one side to another for the people. And the EU actually proves to us daily that it does not even think of the peoples of the individual nations. The EU has not managed at all to reach the hearts of the people, for it has only passed up to people's wallets. We also criticise the fact that there is a burden here that we simply cannot accept, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Europe is in order, Europe is not as a centralist entity, as the United States of Europe, but as a state with national states, as a state. That's our idea. And in the context of this Treaty, one must say that it is not only any hidden opposition politicians, Mr Cap, but also individuals of the United Europe and also glowing Europeans who are massively criticizing this Treaty. It is, for example, the former French President Valéry Giscard d’Estaing, who says on this contract that he is a mogelpa-cking with which the citizens are to be sold for stupid. – By comparison! He's a mogel pack, he said. There are enough quotations from the European Union which prove this. With regard to the referendum, the popular opinion is what you are doing here today, nothing but a capitulation, a real capitulation. Then if You already believe that this treaty should not be subject to a referendum by law, okay, that is your opinion. There are several legal experts. But what prevents us from joining the Austrian people together and, for example, discussing their views in the context of a People's Survey, asking them what they think of this European Treaty. That would be the right way, I think. Without a referendum, this EU Treaty is ultimately nothing but an uncovered check for which the citizens pay the token. And the government proclaims its policy by saying: Direct democracy with our government never! There has even been an interesting meeting in the committee – do not be angry with me, Mrs Grossmann, that I am now quoting you: When we came to the Vehement Committee for a referendum, the SPÖ representative said: That is why we do not need this because referendums in Austria are not supposed to become inflationary. Do you know how many referendums there have been in Austria? – Two national referendums, one to Zwentendorf and one to join the EU. Do you know how many people's surveys have existed since there was the law? - None! There has not been a national survey! That is what we are criticizing: that you now argue as an argument, that representative democracy should decide what we have it for?- Oh, my God! That means the elected representatives of the people. - Okay, let's take note of this. We take note of this and call on the people who watch us today to act as glowing Austrians and also as Europeans to paint themselves very thick in the calendar today and to paint it again every year. If you think that only representative democracy must decide and not the people by popular vote, then there is only one way of expressing your protest and his dissatisfaction with this procedure, namely to exchange and elect the representatives of this representative democracy during the next elections. – This is what we call for by the citizens, who are very skeptical in a large majority. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You've got to be picked up! That is the only way we can finally prevent such developments. 15 000 Carinthias have signed – on an office, not on the street – with legitimacy, so that a public survey is possible in Carinthias; takes place on the initiation of the Kärntner head of state Jörg Haider. What are you doing? They use a cheap pocket player trick by ratifying the 9th. April ahead – without any reason! No one has yet been able to tell me why this must be today and not only in June or autumn. I know why – because you want to undermine and make impossible this citizens' initiative in Carinthia, which is very broad-based. With today's ratification, you've succeeded. I can therefore only ask the Carinthian population: Shows them at the next country election that you can't deal with the population the way they do! Thousands of people go to the street to demonstrate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These too must be taken seriously, and we must not let them do bad. You can't put them in a left-wing extrem or right-wing corner, because they're just as good democrats – their voice counts exactly the same in one election – as you, Dr. Van der Bellen, like you, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, or like you, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel. The vote counts as well, both in a referendum and in a election. Therefore: Do not make the critics of this EU Treaty bad, but take the criticism seriously and allow people to decide.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11711	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Schüssel. 15 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11732	High house! It is true that there is always a need to take critics and citizens seriously, no matter what arguments they make, but I believe that people's representatives have a special responsibility, which criticisms they give a voice. I also say very clearly: What makes me affected is the language used here. On the one hand patriots and there the chaots! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am telling you openly that I do not like this, because each of us elected representatives of the people should - and do so out of full conviction - feel as a patriot and not as a chaot. This polarization alone is an accident, I say quite openly. I think this is also the danger of a popular vote: that this polarization is so heightened that only more friend or enemy applies, that there is no color tones, no grey tones, no differentiation at all. I say quite openly, too, because it is said again and again of the ‘constitution’: We have an Austrian constitution, we adhere to this constitution. Today, within the framework of our Austrian constitution, we are adopting an international treaty and nothing else. A coup can't be the talk at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Furthermore, the question of death penalty. . I would like to say very clearly here that what is being played here is intellectually unreasonable. Your quote, Mr Strache, is a literal quotation from the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 2 para. 2. It has been taken as a quote in the explanatory remarks on the Charter. By the way, you, FPÖ, and all the other parties to this House, have agreed to this European Convention on Human Rights. Insurance You're not the citizens now! The European Union has abolished the death penalty in times of war and peace. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] Furthermore, don't be angry with me: What's that supposed to mean that you're handing over beak baskets? [[Abg. Stitch: Moul basket! Muzzle to the Austrians!]] It's not a muzzle, no, it's a biting basket for dogs! – Who, ladies and gentlemen, are the Federal Chancellor or Vice Chancellor to bite? What picture is that? We are people and not biting dogs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] What's your final sentence? “God Protect Austria!” in 2008, in which we recall the year 1938? Do you even want to give the impression that the European Union has anything to do with its agreement on the violent ‘connect’ of Austria, supported by the Nazi army from within and outside? If so, please say so openly. – We turn this comparison back to the sharpest! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] This has nothing to do with Austrian and European reality! Ladies and gentlemen, you can and should discuss everything with passion, which is important, and the European Union is important to all of us. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] We can therefore use the same passion on Article 48 para. 7 of the Treaty of Europe. For example, they have claimed that the national parliaments have only a yellow card and no red card. - That's not true. I've got the text here, you're welcome to read. There are two procedures, namely, the Convention procedure, in which unanimity applies. Nothing can happen there without the national parliaments. The Austrian Parliament has the full power to block everything. The second is the simplified procedure, the Passerelle clause. In Article 48(1), point (b) of Article 48(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 provides that if the European Council unanimously decides on the transition from unanimity to majority voting, within six months a single Parliament may say that it does not want to, then the decision will not be taken either. This isn't a yellow card, it's a red card, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] No, not at all. The decision is only possible with the consent of all Parliaments, a single Parliament alone can object. It is precisely this discussion, I say quite openly, that I am afraid of such a polarized, so pointed discussion. We can then follow any false claim with the Lasso or the butterfly network because you always invent something new and insecure people. In such a situation, courage is needed, not fear-makers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] I am in favour of discussing all of this with passion, but please also discuss the real goal of this European Union with passion. Why then has it been founded? – Josef Cap has already presented this very impressively. From the horrors of World War I the idea has emerged that the French and the Germans and another core – thank God the circle will continue to unite – in order never to have to experience war again, never again bloody conflicts on this continent. It's been a merger from the bottom to the top, not an Oktroi. This was not by war, by compulsion, but by voluntary unification of the peoples. This has never happened in the history of Europe before. This is the reason why French and Germans – who have published a joint history book these days – are putting up with peace and friendship, as well as the Poles that the English can live in peace with the Irish, that the Romanians and the Hungarians are eliminating their disputes and border issues, that we too have no problems with our Czech neighbours or with the Italians, the key to South Tyrol. This is a huge success for us. [[Abg. Street: The Beneš decrees have been made since...!]] - Now leave your call! I say quite frankly to you: That's a miracle for me. This is a European miracle, and it should be said once in this House. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] Of course, this miracle also needs passionate advocates who carry this torch out and carry on this spark. We also need instruments to do this, and that is the goal: to export security, stability and peace. This requires a vote in foreign policy, the European Foreign Minister, and a strong foreign service is needed to ensure consular protection for all European citizens. This also requires presence, police, military presence, in crisis spots. That is positive and something which, by the way, has been rightfully carried by FPÖ and BZÖ over the past few years and decades. Since you have taken the word ‘preventive war of attack’ into your mouth today, Mr Strache, I guarantee you here and today: This will never lead our European Union a preventive war of attack, but we will always vote for peace, freedom and human rights everywhere in the world, whether in the UN or elsewhere! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] There is no need for militarization, ladies and gentlemen, but there needs to be a common foreign policy, there is also a need for good equipment for police or soldiers who, for example, in the Balkans or elsewhere, ensure peace and stability. It takes logistics because peace is not as natural as we sometimes do here in Austria. Over the past 15 years, in our neighborhood, there have been three bloody wars with mass refugee movements up to the end of Austria. Ten years ago – in Kosovo – there were thousands and hundreds of thousands of people who had taken refuge. – Therefore: The European Union, which today ensures peace and stability in the Balkans, protects and benefits this EU. This is a message that you have to say today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second very important issue that all of us have to connect is, of course, the work, the economic location. I must honestly say, I was surprised myself – I looked at the numbers again this morning: We completed our negotiations with the Union some 14 years ago, at the end of February, beginning of March, and I compared the figures of March 1994 with those of March 2008. Do you know that in Austria today we have more than 350 000 jobs, that at the same time we have 20 000 unemployed people less than at the time? – Europe benefits and protects today, and Austria in particular! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The example of export has already been brought by Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance. We had 40 billion € exports back then, today we have 115 billion. 60 percent of our national incomes are exported worldwide, and almost 80 percent of our exports go into the European Economic Area. What would we be without this hinterland? We are those who best of all 27 EU Member States... – Have [[Abg. Strache: Then there is nothing against a referendum!]] One more argument, Mr. Strache? Can we, as a people's representative, speak out for ourselves and say something that may be important for the Austrians and the spectators at home in front of the televisions – in addition to your calls, Mr. Colleague? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I believe that it is also important to break down what the European Union ultimately means, which has ultimately brought it to the individual citizens. Illustrating fundamental rights to the European Union Court of Justice is possible through this Treaty. European popular desire is possible for the first time. I very much hope that there will also be the next step towards a European referendum, a European People's Survey or a European referendum. We get the full participation of the European people's representatives. Since joining the EU, we have achieved 100 000 concrete projects for education, research, social affairs, tourism, the economy and agriculture. Throughout the Union, every citizen can take his social rights, work, invest and have full legal protection. It is particularly important for consumers – and in fact the Union has been an absolute blessing: Just think of the approvals at the telephone, at the international calls, just think of the bank transfers. Remember that in the case of children's toys, the Commission is currently leading for us a determined fight against cheap imports from Asia and prevents toys from entering our children's rooms with toxic substances. Could we do this by ourselves? [[Call the FPÖ:Of course!]] But from where! Such an argument is ridiculous. There the Union is an absolute protection and benefit for all of us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Remember that the European Union has introduced compensation for delays in the public transport sector! Remember, in order to protect consumers, unsafe airlines, the European airspace was blocked! Remember, hundreds of millions of fines have been imposed on multinational corporations! Does anyone think that the Austrian cartel office, for example, could have cracked Microsoft? No, no, no, The European Union will benefit and protect everyone and everyone if it does so properly. I believe that this Treaty is a useful guide to action. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no Europe à la carte with 500 million people and 27 states, where everyone in the module system can choose what is best suited to it, but it needs rules of play. A medium-sized country like Austria must also define its interests. Now I say quite openly, and I also put this to the discussion: I believe that a middle country like Austria, which wants to change something towards social union, environmental union, peace union, towards climate protection, towards community efforts in research, cannot be interested in the fact that the stop button is over-dimensional, cannot be interested in the standstill and in the veto of individuals who want to block something. It is our interest to support this further development in the right direction, which we hope will also be able to define together. That is why I believe that we are more interested in this double majority. Double majority means: Two thirds of the European population and the majority of states – 55 percent of states – must agree to a decision in Europe at all. This is the best guarantee that a smaller or medium-sized country cannot be overrun. Even if all four or five large ones work together, it still needs ten medium or small, that a decision is taken at all. That is why this double majority and the possibility of continuing and overcoming a veto of an individual is the right way; strategicly, it is absolutely right for us. Ladies and gentlemen! There, where it is important for us – that is also stated –: on the ground and on the ground, no sale of the Austrian water, on the services such as our communities, or on the safety that no nuclear power plant can be built on the Austrian territory, is there and there the Veto Austria remains secure. That's why, my. Ladies and gentlemen, and with this I conclude: There is no reason at all to be afraid of this treaty. Giscard d’Estaing – by the way, Peter Westenthaler – was skeptical because he wanted more. I say quite frankly that I had nothing against it. With symbols such as the flag that we set up next to the Austrian one today, or the hymn composed by Beethoven in Vienna, premiered in Vienna and chosen by Herbert von Karajan as a European anthem, I would have no problem at all. I believe that this Treaty is a reasonable basis for a better Europe. In order for this to be filled with life, we still have to work a lot, but it is a good starting point. So don't worry about it, but it means a lot of work for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11936	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen. His speaking time is also 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11960	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked your commitment, Dr. Schüssel, or that of Dr. Cap, to be visible in Europe's debates, not only in the context of this debate on Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This concerns Dr. Cap more than you, Dr. Schüssel. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Now he finally jumped on the green train!]] I can well remember that Dr. Cap was very hesitant on the road as part of the EU enlargement and did not spray this fire that he sprayed from the speaker's mouth today. In the meantime, I have wondered where it comes from, that this EU scepticism appears to be particularly widespread in Austria. One of the reasons is likely to be that we accept much of it as a matter of course, but this has only happened within the last ten or 15 years. I remember what it was like when I worked in West Berlin in the mid-1970s, i.e. 20 years before Austria's accession to the EU, in Berlin. Mr. Strache, that was in the newly founded Science Centre in West Berlin, we were at least 90 percent active as foreigners in this research institute – an absolutely revolutionary concept for the conditions at that time; I felt “well” there. But all foreigners there – whether European, American, South American and so on – had to work at the Foreign Police every year: one year residence permit, one year work permit. It is now obvious that there is no longer any such thing for EU citizens within the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] This is one of the four fundamental freedoms, freedom of establishment, free choice of work within the Union – and I and the Greens, Mr President, see this as an essential extension of the freedom of European citizens! They, on the other hand, obviously want to rebuild the stamping trees, if not to rebuild the barbed wires on the Austrian borders! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is certainly not in the interest of Austrian citizens. These freedoms are important, and we want to keep them. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, I must say that at that time I was more skeptical about the accession of Austria to the European Economic Community or the European Community, as it was then called. I remember well – that must have been at the end of the 1980s – a longer conversation with Ferdinand Lacina, the then Minister of Finance, who, among other things, explained to me: Look, unlike accession to the EU, Austria's structures will not be dissolved. That gave me a lot to think about. In fact, today we still have the sugar cartel, the unholy alliance of three social partners, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber of Workers and the sugar baron, which in Austria have held the sugar prices artificially high for decades. A small matter, but one of the countless cartels that ruled Austria at the time – at the expense of Austrian consumers! We would still be powerless today against the bank's interest cartel if it were not for the EU Commission to watch over such abuse of economic power. The mutual provision of public contracts at municipal level, at national level, also at the federal level was going and giving, Mr. Strache. This prevents the European Union's competition rules and their monitoring by the European Commission. [[Abg. Street: The price increases in trade prove this?- Oh, my God!]] Among my friends, there are many who are very skeptical about globalisation and who are concerned about the development of large multinational transnational groups. In fact, this development must be considered with concern. But, I say, what institution in the world, the American included, apart from the EU, would be able to put a globally dominant group like Microsoft in the tongs? - I'll ask you that. The EU Commission has punished Microsoft with € 280 million due to the abuse of its market power, the abuse of its dominant position in 2006, with €500 million in 2007, € 900 million in 2008: € 1.7 billion in total! Faith You, Mr Strache – Microsoft – are already out of the way, but is it not for those – Austria alone – outside the EU – your famous Swiss model – you want to get out of the EU – that Austria alone would have any means against corporations of this kind? You really believe that? Are you crazy? – This can only be done within the European Union! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only within the European Union, and that is important! [[Abg. Strache: Poor Switzerland! He's going sooo bad!]] Apart from the fact that transnational, cross-border environmental problems can only be solved today through transnational cooperation within such an institution as the European Union. [[Abg. Stache: It's best to join NATO, Mr. Van der Bellen! It's best to join NATO!]] – My God, discussing with you is really pointless! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Yeah, it's really pointless. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This pattern of behaviour that the European Union is indebted to everything and that the merits of the respective federal government are exactly the same with you, only mirroringly wrong. The EU is indebted to everything, as you support every federal government – that is directly ridiculous! It is no wonder that the European Union in Austria – but not only there but also in different Member States of the Union – will gain such a low social prestige if one wants to do so. About a nice example for – how should I say? – the disinformity of many people was reported in the “standard” last Friday: Four cabaretists built a stand on the Mariahilfer Straße in Vienna and faced the passers-by with freely invented, incredible claims, which were widely believed. For example: The European Union will introduce a women's quota for singer boys in Vienna. [[Cheerfulness with Greens and SPÖ.]] - We laugh here, but apparently that goes in. Or, not bad either: The Pummer at St. Stephen’s Cathedral must no longer be beaten by a new EU noise protection regulation. [[New warmth with greens and ÖVP.]] – This is not bad, but it is believed. Or, even better: The EU will now require light at parking instead of light per day when driving. [[Cheerfulness with Greens and SPÖ.]] – It is believed that this is inconceivable! I mean, the information deficits are really terrifying. But I'm the last one to blame the people. I mean, the Federal Government from SPÖ and ÖVP wakes up today, and yesterday it posted ads – but what happened in the months before? What did you do? Compare once Your behavior with that of 1994! Now I am far away from saying that this reform treaty has the same meaning, the same weight as that of its then accession – no, of course not, it has comparatively little weight. But nevertheless: 1994, I can remember, I was myself with trade union representatives, with German Chancellor Vrannitzky on the way in discussions still and still. And now? - You've been eating it, you've been watching. You thought you could sit this: ==References== April we bless it, and it's done. - That's not enough! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We all know what the ÖVP is capable of. In the Lower Austrian country election campaign, Erwin Pröll has shown in a way that makes sense if you want to, what the ÖVP can do if it wants – in this campaign; that is what I called a campaign. What you have here in the framework of the reform treaty was really not a campaign, that was nothing at all. This is not supposed to be an excuse for disinformedness, there is now a wealth of information. Moreover, the report of the Constitutional Committee is very good; it has only 25 pages and is a very compressed information on the content of the reform Treaty. Of course, it's not easy, I have to say that. In the Federal Government too, it would not be easy for us to work with targeted untruths on a daily basis from the other side, namely FPÖ and BZÖ. [[Abg. May. Hauser: That is wrong!]] It's totally pointless to put yourself together with you: You'll be back in the next hour – for better knowledge! – disperse exactly the same untruths. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Hauser: Then let the citizens vote!]] [[Abg. Strache: These are exactly these pre-potential assumptions! The broken greens...!]] Yeah, I'm a friend of the referendum, I'm telling you. I am a friend of the referendum, and the uninformedness of the citizens is not a sufficient reason against the referendum. If we were to demand complete, correct, perfect information in all decisions, then nothing could be decided at all – neither in the European Union nor here in Parliament, let alone in a referendum. That can't be a reason to deny a referendum, I'll give you all the right. By the way, it was also not the case with Zwentendorf that citizens would have voted in full information on this complex nuclear power question. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In the case of Zwentendorf, the citizens have in part – to a small part, but to a crucial small part! – made the right decision from the wrong motives. Because if I remember correctly, trade unions, industrial associations and key parts of the ÖVP were massive for the unlocking of Zwentendorf. When's the mood tickled? What gave her the last kick, so to speak? – Bruno Kreisky, who said he would resign if the referendum turned out negative! There the black voters went to the urns in a variety of ways and voted No to Zwentendorf – hoping to get rid of Kreisky! It just went out differently: They didn't get Zwentendorf, and Kreisky was still there. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] – So much about the people’s wisdom in the case of Zwentendorf: the right result from partly questionable motives. My favorite idea of the ratification of such contracts as the one we are talking about today is quite another. We now have a veto right of 27 national parliaments; in the long run, I think, this is not possible. My vision, my dream – which will certainly not come true in the next twenty years – is for such changes, I can calm you down: The majority of European Parliaments - to be qualified majority, we say two-thirds - and European referendums, simple majority of citizens. Europe-wide will be voted on the same day. If the European people say no by a majority, the matter is dead and done. If the European people say yes by a majority, then the change in the Treaty will in principle come into force, and that country that has not been able to get through at government or people level, yes, has the choice of either considering it again and staying in the Union, but leaving the Union with the new rules of the game, or leaving the Union. This is precisely what we, the great majority in this House, are doing, Mr Strache, because the new Treaty of Reform opens up the possibility of leaving the Union, which you have been calling for for for months on a daily basis. We will, of course, fight to the last, for Austria to remain an important member of the Union, because we believe that, with all the criticism in detail, the benefits of membership with Weitem outweigh. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think that the reform treaty is a little exaggerated in its importance. Yes, it is making significant progress in the Union's ability to act, and that is good. It is making significant progress in democratisation, in the sharing of violence in the Union, and that is good. It's not perfect for a long time yet – not yet! . but it is, after all, better, much better than what we now have, namely the Treaty of Nice, which, of course, remained in force when this Treaty of Reform is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That was so good! We've heard it all the time!]] With my friends on the so-called left side of the Republic, I sometimes notice that they have an exaggerated expectation of what can reasonably stand in such a contract, or that they believe that a text alone replaces politics. There are important things in it, yes – but they must only be filled with life, later by politics, by us, by our parliamentarians in Brussels and so on! A small but important example: If the Reform Treaty were already in force, the Charter of Fundamental Rights would already be in force, so that the emphasis on human rights, the indivisible dignity of man and the more important it would be – would it be easier for European politicians to have a uniform attitude to Tibet? The human rights violations that happen there so as to urge them to raise their voices in the context of the preparation of the Olympic Games in one light? – I do not know because the common foreign policy is still a matter of unanimity, even after the new reform treaty. That is to say, we have progress here, but it will be up to us, politicians, the pressure of citizens to live up to it and make something of what is worth talking about. For now, Mr. Strache, this is only paper. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But let's do that: Let's fill these paper pages! That would be important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12193	It has now informed Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer. The speaking time is 14 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12214	Madam President. Members of the Government Bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is a historic day for the Austrian Parliament today, because this is a further step towards the development of the probably most successful model that has ever existed in the history of Europe, namely the European Union. This European Union, unlike all centuries and decades before, has managed to heal the wounds that the Second World War struck in Europe. After that, this European Union has also managed to heal the wounds that the Cold War has struck in Europe. Now we face the great challenge of healing those wounds that the war has struck in the former Yugoslavia. I am convinced that the European Union will also face this challenge, because the European Union is the most successful project of civilization from the humanist, democratic and from the point of view of peace. I am fully committed to this project because it is good for Austria, good for its people and good for Europe! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We must be all interested in the fact that this Europe works. Austria was once in a peripheral position, 50 kilometres from us was the Iron Curtain, and we almost presented the perceptible civilisation line. Today, Austria is at the heart of this new, this free Europe, and this Austria benefits more than many other countries in the European Union from economic development. Who is the investor number one in all the new Member States of the European Union? – Not only in comparison to our size, but also nominal it is the Austrian companies, it is Austria. Who will return most of the growth from Central, Eastern and South-East Europe? It's Austria! In which country of Europe are most jobs secured by the enlargement of the European Union? It's Austria! Therefore, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen: Let us say about this successful path, which leads to more prosperity and more jobs in Austria! [[Abg. Strache: Let us say to the referendum, Federal Chancellor!]] This way is good for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Why do we make this contract? – Professor Van der Bellen has meant that he is in his interest to exaggerate his meaning, and I think he is right to a certain extent. Because the qualitative changes are not so great. The essential steps that are included are the fact that after a former Union of the 15 we now have a Union of the 27 and therefore there must be other mechanisms for this European Union to work. That's the most important thing. At the same time, there is qualitative progress, but not towards the past, Mr Klubobmann Strache, but with the introduction of the Basic Law Charter, the legal status of each individual citizen, every individual citizen in Europe, will in fact be strengthened, whether in Austria, Germany or in the new Member States. [[Abg. Strache: Volksammung, Herr Bundeskanzler!]] This is an important step in the right direction. I can remember that in recent debates on the subject of Europe, it was often called for that the European Union should be a member of the Convention on Human Rights, because it was recognized as a lack that the Union was not involved. Now it happens: Finally, the European Union itself will become a member of the Convention on Human Rights! This is not a step back, but a very essential progress for Europe and its citizens. We are talking about it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] To a certain extent, the language used here is worrying, and Mr. Klubobmann Dr. We have rightly been told in detail about this. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: From Mr. Cap!]] For example, Mr Klubobmann, you demand that there be a referendum, and at the same time you say – I have listened very closely to you – that in 1994 Austria was “manipulated into the EU”. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Blow: Untrue allegations!]] They demand a referendum. [[Abg. Strache: With untrue claims! That was unreasonable!]] But if a referendum with two thirds of the Austrian population is for accession to the EU, has Austria been “manipulated”? – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, this is unfair! [[Abg. Strache: That was unfair at the time!]] Tell us clearly and clearly that you are one of the few who represent a different way. [[Abg. Strache: That was unfair that you told the Austrian people the untruth at the time!]] We are for Austria in Europe, and you are for an Austria outside Europe – that is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, that is the truth! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler was told, there was the so-called plate construction of Europe: What does he want to tell us, ladies and gentlemen? – It clearly represents today’s free Europe at the same level as the German Democratic Republic at the time, which, as a housing building, had these slabs. I say clearly to you, Mr Westenthaler: Today's free Europe is an answer to this past, not a slab building, but a good home for its people. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] How much fear, ladies and gentlemen, have we heard since accession or even before accession to Austria? What was all claimed? There will be the “red shield blaze” in the yogurt, there will be the “blot chocolate”, there is the mandatory abortion, there is the migration of the farms and the jobs, Austria will be impoverished, Austria will be abolished, the death penalty will be introduced – the list of all these agonys is infinitely long. And what is the truth? None of these agonys have ever come true in reality. The truth is: Since Austria has been a member of the European Union, Austria has become richer. There are hundreds of thousands more jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The schilling will stay, the neutrality will remain!]] Austria has become safer. [[Abg. Strache: The schilling has disappeared! The “Ederer-Tausender” has disappeared!]] Austria has become more freer and, in fact, membership of Austria is a success story in the European Union – a success story that we want to continue with today, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12423	Federal Chancellor! Wait a minute, please! – I am looking for the Members of the BZÖ to re-roll the poster. You've shown it enough. Mr Bundeskanzler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12449	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is discussed that legitimate criticism should be taken seriously. - Yes, it should be taken seriously! If, at the same time, it is said that everything in this Treaty is not in it, I must ask you the following question: What would Europe's history have done if the founders of the European Union, those who have developed Europe before us, had only agreed on something contractual if it had been 100% perfect? Would there ever be a balance between Germany and France? Would the Single European Act ever have come? Would it ever have come to the Economic and Monetary Union or the Schengen Agreement? If only, if something had been 100% perfect, contracts had been concluded, then Europe would have opted for a standstill, because the truth is that Europe is also a compromise for further development. I would also like to see much more Europe in this Treaty, but I understand that, under the given conditions, the 27 Member States are no longer ready to do so today and that, therefore, this reform treaty is the best we can achieve under today's conditions. [[Abg. Strache: A dangerous threat!]] We must also be able to reach compromises in Europe, especially when the compromises point in the right direction. And this reform treaty points in the right direction, with more fundamental rights, with more rights for Parliaments, with more transparency and, ultimately, with an increased capacity for action in the world. [[Abg. Strache: Then, please, a referendum if everything is so great anyway!]] In addition to your frozen posthorn tones, you haven't heard any argument for months. Unfortunately, this has already been noted at the committee meetings, and I say quite openly: With fear, neither the future of Austria nor the future of Europe must be done! [[Abg. Strache: People's vote is not a fright!]] That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP and representatives of the Greens.]] And the truth is also: If you call for referendum, then you really want to hide behind one demand, because you really do not want a referendum, because if the referendum does not go out as you want, then you say Austria has been “manipulated in” because the disregard for the 1994 referendum by you shows clearly and clearly: [[Abg. Strache: Then it is to be respected!]] You are not about the people, you are not about the referendum, you just want to get out of the European Union. And with this you should stay alone in Austria, Mr Klubobmann, because we want to stay inside. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Why don't you allow a referendum?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this issue is far too important and far too important as it should be tried to change small political money. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: To make a referendum?]] And I say quite frankly to you that what you have here in terms of fears – which I sometimes get to read because I receive the letters – in the population is really not a contribution to a good discussion, and that is not a good contribution to the development of Austria. I think you have to take people's fears seriously. [[Abg. Kickl: You can't just say that!]] Taking the fears of people seriously is something different than multiplying fears every day, doing nothing else every day, but also strengthening these fears with untruths, ladies and gentlemen, that has nothing to do with responsibility, it has nothing to do with a fair discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: And you decide what to discuss!]] I make the claim – also to this Austrian Parliament – that in the case of all the political differences that may exist, we must contribute to the fact that good foundations for our population are also given in the future. Anxiety on the back of the population, which is dishonest, does not belong to an Austrian MP. [[Abg. Strache: The truth is reasonable! People's vote now!]] This does not belong to a party in this Parliament either, and I can therefore only urge you to do so urgently: Let the frights be! Discuss openly and honestly with the Austrian population! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's incredible!]] I'm telling you, too. There's nothing octroying us, there's no constitutional dictatorship either. What is on the table here is the outcome of the discussions of the European Convention, the Members of Parliament, the NGOs, in the meantime also the Minister, the Foreign Minister, the Heads of Government, and no one forces us to accept this Treaty at all. Shall I tell you something? - No, we want to ratify this treaty. [[Abg. You're forcing us!]] [[Abg. You're forcing us to do this!]] We want to ratify it completely voluntarily, because we believe it is an important, necessary and a right step for Austria and Europe, and we are interested that Europe remains functional, that Europe can accept the real challenges and we do not want the isolation of Austria that you have called for, we do not want the way of Austria somewhere where no one wants to do anything with us. We want to continue the successful path towards a social and democratic Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: That doesn't even believe Erich Haider from Upper Austria!]] This is what the Austrian Federal Government feels obliged to do, and we will continue to do so with all the consequence.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12686	Mr Wittmann spoke next. The speaking time of the next five speakers is 10 minutes each. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12707	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: May we still have our own opinion or do we have to ask the SPÖ before?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Does Mr. Haider of the SPÖ Upper Austria know that too?]] There is great excitement here now. First of all, I would like to say something about the basics: I think it is a very dangerous argument to say that the mechanisms of representative democracy are not democratic. This is what I must put at the forefront of my statements as a constitutional speaker, because they are just as democratic as any other way that is set out in our Constitution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But that was also the case with the interceptors!]] It is therefore also the responsibility of representative democracy to make its decisions. The Members have the responsibility to take their decisions. This is just as democratic as any other way we have provided for in our Constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes, certainly!]] What is available here today is an exhilaration that is artificially produced. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: What is that supposed to mean? Explain this to us!]] They act as if we were to decide on an EU Treaty for the first time after our accession. But that is not the case! This is the third Treaty since our accession; that is not the first Treaty we conclude. It's the third! We have ratified the Treaty of Amsterdam in this way, we have ratified the Treaty of Nice here in Parliament in this way. This procedure is not new to the other Treaties. And it is also the weight of this Treaty of Lisbon that is no different from the weight of the Treaty of Nice. That is why we can now very quietly re-elect this procedure, which we have chosen for the other Treaties. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: That's different now!]] The disgrace of your argument is that if you were against the Treaty of Lisbon, you would not create a empty space, but the rules of the Treaty of Nice would continue to apply. However, these regulations are much worse than the regulations we are adopting today. [[Numerous calls to the FPÖ.]] That is to say, we do not fall back into a empty legal area on which we would have to decide in a referendum, but we do nothing but maintain the rules of the bad and no longer adequate Treaty of Nice, thus refusing the future validity of the good provisions contained in the Treaty of Lisbon. The good rules are too few, but we hope that we will be able to add further provisions in the future. Now to the concrete arguments you present here, which should not happen. You suggest in your argument that if you do not sign the Treaty of Lisbon, you do not decide to leave the European Union. You suggest that! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I didn't say that!]] You do not, however, dedicate any argument to the Treaty of Nice on which all your criticism would be based with the same authority, if you did not decide to do so. It is the question of neutrality that you always put at the top of your explanations. On the arguments with the “blood chocolate” and the shieldede in the yogurt, which now culminate in the tastelessness of the death penalty, I do not enter, for that would be tasteless. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't go into the schilling either! You do not go into the anonymity of the savings cans either!]] This is not worthy of a discussion at an intellectual level, as we are used to here. You know it's wrong what you're saying. They deliberately say the untruth. They insure the population with arguments that we have nothing to do with tastelessness, and You disqualify yourself if you continue to argue at such a level. I would just like to remind you that Mr Bösch, who is still more liberal, has voted in favour of the EU Constitutional Treaty, has so far been very much in favour of all these amendments, which are now also included in the Treaty of Lisbon. So it was not the case that the liberals were against it. Mr Scheibner – and I can still remember this – has given a flaming speech for the Constitutional Treaty, which essentially contained a little more detailed provisions than this Treaty. There was never the talk of a referendum, but at the time he was a glowing and enthusiastic advocate of these treaties. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: The conduct of a referendum was always my position!]] On neutrality: The essential core of our neutrality is that, in all our accession negotiations or commitments, we still have the sovereignty to decide in Austria what and how we join or help. That is essential, and that does not change with this treaty. This so-called Irish clause already exists in the previous treaties. That is to say, one has nothing to do with neutrality, but we have the Treaty of Nice, which is now valid, and we have the Treaty of Lisbon, which is then valid, and nothing has changed on this issue. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why do we need the contract if nothing changes?]] We can continue to decide in our Parliament what and how we want it to be. Therefore, this argument that you use is completely wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But now you contradict the Chancellor: He has claimed that everything will be different, and now you say everything remains the same!]] Your argument to the transit: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of the Treaty of Nice, which would continue to apply, do not differ from the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon. The European Union has not been given any additional competence. That has been the case so far. Only the forms of organisation are changing, but no skills have been expanded. That is, if we reject this Treaty of Lisbon, we would continue to have the rules of the Treaty of Nice, which are the same. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do you need him then?]] I don't understand why you put this as an argument. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then what do you need the new contract?]] EURATOM: The EURATOM Treaty is not affected by the Treaty of Lisbon, nor does it affect the Treaty of Nice. This argument is completely wrong. It doesn't change! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do you need him then?]] To double the contributions to the European Union: It is ridiculous to say that this will only change with the Treaty of Lisbon. As early as 2007, the European Union has decided on a financial perspective that has nothing to do with this Treaty. It shall apply until 2014. So that has nothing to do with this treaty! They construct any arguments that have nothing to do with this contract. But I can tell you what you are against. You are opposed to the right to inform and consult employees in companies, you are against the right to collective treaty negotiations and collective measures. They are opposed to the right to access a labour market placement service. [[Abg. That's absurd!]] They are against the right to protection in the event of unjust dismissal. You are against the right to receive fair working conditions. If If you reject the Treaty of Lisbon, you will reject those rules that would allow a social process within the European Union. [[Abg. Strache: We are not against the social standards, but rather, and they are better in Austria!]] They also mentioned health care. They are also opposed to the right to benefits such as access to health care and medical care. These are the improvements contained in this Treaty as fundamental rights, as social fundamental rights, and as such would be indictable, so to speak, to the development of the Treaty of Nice. They refuse the citizens of the European Union to lay down fundamental rights. They pretend it would be better if there were no such rights. The Treaty of Nice is no better than this Treaty which we have to adopt today. And we don't give up any more decision-making rights. We have already voted in a referendum on the need to put EU law on Austrian law. [[Abg. Street: Not in all areas!]] That was the central point of a referendum, and that was voted on. And the further developments, which bring improvements, to refuse Europeans and thus to refuse Austrians, I think this is disgraceful. I consider all the arguments that seem to be, if one rejects this contract, to be completely outrageous and inaccurate. And I think you know, too, that's false what you're saying. There are rules before and regulations afterwards. The rules before are worse than the regulations afterwards. Why do you reject the contract? – Because you simply do not want to realize that, even if this contract does not come, there are rules of play, namely that of the Treaty of Nice, and this Treaty is not as good as this. [[Abg. Strache: Because our social and legal system is better!]] That is, you want to insure the population with a referendum, by uncertainty of the population, by really false argumentation, through targeted untruths, so that you can prepare for a departure from the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: So a referendum is wrong?]] Such a course is shameful. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, the reasonable forces in this House will ensure that there is a further development of Austria that there is a further development of the European Union. We are in favour of this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13035	Next came the second President, Mr Spindelegger. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13056	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's dangerous when you start to believe in your own propaganda! This has happened before!]] [[Abg. We want the further development of Austria, because in Austria the social standards are higher!]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's emotional debate has something positive in itself: We are talking about Europe in a very different way, but it is important that we have chosen it on the subject. We have not talked about Europe for too long, so it is a good reason to have an emotional but yet good European policy debate today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would particularly like to deal with one aspect, which is the one that is strongly represented by the citizens: the issue of referendum. I would like to put this in the centre of my contribution here and today, because of the organizations that demand it, also by the political parties, the argument will be “We want a referendum!” – to be seen and heard in the high house today – so that you no longer know what to vote on. And that would be the content to which such a debate should refer here in the House. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In 1994 no one knew that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The vote will be taken on this Treaty of Lisbon, not on what is being brought into the centre in the public there and there – and today many examples have already been mentioned – which causes fears. I have been shocked by the number of those who say that I really do not know anything about this Treaty of Lisbon; 80 percent of the Austrians think so. [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, how should they know something? Only about ads?]] At the same time 66 percent of Austrians say, but we want a referendum. Both are related. [[Abg. Strache: Who's to blame for it?]] Those who do not know what is inside believe that they want to vote on what is said in the public by some about this treaty, namely, - and I may repeat this - the complete abolition of national sovereignty, the introduction of the death penalty, the obligation of Austrian soldiers to let live on any war scene in the world, genetically modified food that we need to eat, nuclear power plants that we need to block. [[Abg. Strache: Who's to blame for it?]] [[Abg. - Tschad!]] [[Abg. - So what? There's already that!]] And you can continue this list with many other examples. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to hold my first point – and I believe this is important, also for everyone who follows this debate: This is not the subject of this treaty, which we should have debated today. I'd like to come to the second. Many citizens have also written in the e-mails they have sent us, they know they are not allowed to vote on them, because a referendum is required according to our constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an argument that needs to be addressed. We discussed this very thoroughly in the Constitutional Committee. We have given each group the opportunity to make known experts who argue this in their sense. But the conclusion was that even the colleagues of the FPÖ, who were present there, were: A compelling reason, because it would be a total change in the Austrian federal constitution or because the building blocks of the Austrian federal constitution will be changed, is not present. [[Abg. I'm sure! Of course, it has been explained by our experts that this is an overall change!]] This was not even claimed by the colleagues of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Strache: What are you saying? The Constitutional Experts at FPÖ have explained this very well!]] Ladies and gentlemen, one has to hold this – I am not concerned now with the qualifications of the constitutional experts –: What stands in there does not affect our right to a fundamental part, so that a referendum would be forced on it. That is a conclusion I would like to draw today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This brings us to the third point, and we are now on the right ground for discussion. Of course, one can rightly demand that a referendum be held through such a treaty – for political reasons, because one wants to do so. I would just like to keep this up: This is not our political system; we have one of the representative democracy in which those who are elected by the people are to legislate and finally vote on international treaties. If one no longer wants to do so, but puts another system in the foreground, it is legitimate, but that is another debate. This is a debate that we align our system, for example, with the Swiss system, where people are called every few weeks to decide on a question. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That wouldn't be so bad!]] I believe that the Austrian path is quite the better, because, ladies and gentlemen – I can return to the first point again – if all these claims – introduce loss of national sovereignty, death penalty and so on – are not at all the subject of the vote, then the interest that one really wants to find as a people will also decline rapidly. This brings me back to the third conclusion, namely that a popular vote required for political reasons is not justified. That is where I come to the absurdity of the discussion that is being held. This discussion is absurd for me, because the demands that have been made in the last eight years, including by the population in Austria, that Europe needs to change, are at least partly taken into account in this Treaty for the first time. [[Abg. Street: In a completely wrong direction!]] – This is not the wrong direction, but the right direction. I support it. What was required of our tribal tables? Requested: We need to get closer to this Europe. It's so far away, I don't hear anything about it. – For the first time, we have enshrined citizens’ rights, citizens’ rights, which really deserve this name. And honestly, if we say that the human rights convention is a standard with us, but so far it has not been in European procedures, yes, ladies and gentlemen, then it is time for us to implement the human rights convention and also to formulate rights for the citizens of Europe. That is why, as I believe, this is a completely justified move, which can also be found here. Or remember the argument that many have said: too much interference from Europe. Much too many legislation comes to us. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's partly true!]] We don't even know how to handle it anymore. – Yes, that is a criticism, in part, quite justified. For the first time, it is here that we, as a national Parliament, also have the opportunity to say no to the National Council and the Federal Council, even if a Commission proposes anything. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a tremendous progress towards what has so far been done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Or remember the accusation that Europe is actually undemocratic, the European Parliament exists, but it does not have full co-determination at all! For the first time, the European Parliament is now becoming a full co-legislator in the European Union. That is good, and I expressly support it. Ladies and gentlemen, in this way I come to the content of what is often claimed in today's debate, and what really stimulates emotions, that is whether Austrian neutrality is actually abolished. If you read Article 28a of this Treaty and there the par. 7 – and I quote it because it is important for the Austrian population – then it is quite clear – I quote – that: The particular character of the security and defence policy of certain Member States remains unaffected, it is said there – which suggests the conclusion that Austrian security policy, namely a neutrality, as we have, is not affected by this Treaty. Since this is not believed by everyone, I may call you a prominent witness. Today in the “Press” you read that the witness says – I quote –: ‘And to neutrality: There's nothing in the contract that would change it, that's true." This prominent witness is called Andreas Mölzer and is the FPÖ-Europaabord-nete. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: This is interesting!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that when you deal with things – and I quite agree with Mr Mölzer – you come to the conclusions that are correct. [[Abg. But the assistance obligation is already in there, Mr President.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: (in the direction of FPÖ) In a lie caught!]] I can hold on to one more thing, because this is also demanded by many parties: This non-social Europe must be countered. I do not want all of Austria's social policies to be handed over to the Union, but I strongly support the fact that, for the first time, a principle is laid down in this Treaty, which is there, one admits to the principle of the social market economy. We in Austria have done very well with this principle, because there is a balance between companies and workers, because there is a higher objective, a principle on which we can all stand. Let us be glad that this will now also be the principle of the European Union. I think it is a very important and great achievement that it has succeeded in anchoring that in the Treaty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why: In the end, let me come to my conclusion, to my appeal! I would like us to return to the matter once more, that we have our discussion of what this vote is about today, namely the Treaty of Lisbon. This will take a further step forward. It is probably not the last, probably not the very best, of all, but we have the confidence that we Austrians are able to draw the benefits of this large Community within this framework of the European Union. I think that's good for all of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13334	Next came the third President, Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. Also 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13355	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In advance, I must say that in the National Council, we have not had such a “good” debate on EU policy for a long time – under the lead marks. We have had European days very often, many European issues have been on the agenda over and over again, and it has always been so bad, but today there have been very, very discursive discussions, and I think that is very important. I am therefore at the first point of criticism, which we must certainly bring to the attention of the Federal Government today. Whoever does not conduct a discourse and who does not try to do persuasive work for the things he is convinced of, is then confronted with such emotional, demagogic campaigns, as we see here, and creates no counter-public. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] And because Klubobmann Scheibner just said here, we don't do this: I was very surprised that individuals – I am now looking at Mr Eugen Bösch from the FPÖ – who have worked for years in the European Constitutional Convention and have been here in 2005 and have said that it is a good treaty, I can sign it, stand up today and say it is a work of the devil. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: I didn't say that, Mrs. Colleague!]] Your credibility is, I believe, dead with today's execution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: You're wrong, Mrs. Colleague!]] The same is true of colleagues from Westenthal and colleagues from the BZÖ. They have been sitting in the government for years, they have taken a pro-European course with the ÖVP, they have contributed to enlargement – well that you have done so – and today you are creating and saying that we have not been there. Col. Westenthaler was never there. This is unbelievable, and this also shows the background of this whole campaign that you are driving here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Learn history, Madam President! We're sitting here in Parliament!]] It is not a question of what is wrong in Austria, what is to be improved in Austria, where we create social compensation in Austria, where we create a better, reasonable social policy, or the European level. And when I think of the thought models that you have offered today, I think that you will go with me spiritually now, Mr Westenthaler, if you do. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the “side-views” society, that’s where you belong! To the removed “pageviews” society!]] You say you want unanimity in environmental law. What do you think, then, how do you solve an international treaty such as Kyoto or such problems as air pollutants? Look Now to the Czech Republic, to Hungary, to Slovakia: Do you know what it looked like 20 years ago? And do you know what was significantly responsible for the fact that we no longer have dead forests here and no dying children with diseases? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Abstinence, this is your world!]] That was European environmental law. I would not only like to have a spaceship Austria here, beautiful and nice, spaceship Westenthaler, spaceship Carinthia, but I would like the same rights and the same possibilities to apply the same environmental standards throughout Europe. They do not apply anywhere else. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] When I think of the other model at the end, that is, just out of the EU – I think enough has already been said about it – this is not a future model. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Champagne, this is your world!]] I believe that what the young people in Austria in particular now consider to be a matter of course since 1994, namely that they can move freely in Europe, that they feel equal, this also applies to Polish, Romanian and Bulgarian young people, and that is very, very important in my opinion. If you always shut down the latter than those who only come here and benefit, so to speak, from our prosperity, then you are making a division that is no longer allowed to exist in Europe through this European Union and which has not existed in the last few years, but where, rather, people and people, whether they are Poles, Romanians, Bulgarians, Spaniards, Austrians or Dutch, are equally worth it. I am also at the referendum. I am in favour of referendums on constitutional issues, which is absolutely legitimate, but it should be decided by the people concerned, and I do not want a small group to decide the future for the whole of Europe. [[Abg. Strache: Our constitution is affected!]] You say the Constitution is under threat. [[Abg. It's all right, it's all right.]] Follow If you ever want to. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you, Mrs. Oberlehrer! Now comes the pipe rod!]] It is about the European people, and only a common decision on its common future is legitimate. It is therefore totally illegal when a small group imposes on the other its dictatorship – and that is really a dictatorship. With what you're planning... [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: The Austrian population has to decide on our constitution! Our constitution does not have the pole or anyone else to decide!]] You're sitting there in such a nice way now with the ÖFB bowls, because you're kind of messing with the EURO. Mr Strache, you may not have noticed it – you can then speak later – but Turkey is also part of the EM. [[Abg. Strache: Red and white is important to us!]] I think it is nice that you also accept this and at least try to grasp a European thought. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: It's so superlative!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A champagne glass crystal is still missing!]] As a person who has been watching the EU critically – I have also made many critical campaigns within my environmental record – I can ratify this Treaty, and this applies to the entire Green Group, with good conscience today, with the best conscience. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: It's been a long time! That's past!]] This also has reasons for content that you obviously want to overlook. You are definitely talking about your rejection today against a citizen's desire. However, I say that is probably the only chance for the European anti-atomic movement to actually force a turnaround in the European Union on EURATOM. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: That's absurd!]] If you believe that your rejection will succeed in some form today, then you will be deceived. The EURATOM Treaty is on the spot, just as it was before, as it will be, and with your cheese bell strategy, we do not go one millimeter. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They're against a citizen's desire; I'm just holding it down. They're against the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Although the Charter of Fundamental Rights contains many things that already exist in Austria, I also want these fundamental rights, especially social rights, to apply throughout Europe. This is also important for us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And you are also opposed to an extension of the great objectives of the European Union. Climate protection is enshrined. It will also be the European Union's goal of full employment. This bitter dilemma, which we had for many years, that the European Union was only an economic area in which the economic freedoms were established, is balanced by this Charter of Fundamental Rights and this new definition of social objectives. What I can't understand either: On the one hand, you always argue that you do not want to get out of the EU at all, on the other hand, that you already think European. You don't think European at all! If you say that the principle of unanimity is to be maintained, if you say that Austria's right is to prevail over European agreements: How do you imagine that in reality? There are 27 countries going together, agreeing on certain rules, then all go home and do what they want? How should any democratic structure in Europe work? They have no idea at all, no concept at all, how it should continue. They now only persist in a demagogic, populist, evil campaign and benefit the fears of the population quite brutally and ice-coldly. That's the truth. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why are these fears? – You might have to lose two more sentences. There has been a lot of talk about the profits of prosperity in recent years. But the background, especially the Austrian background, is the fact that many individual and individual groups no longer participate in the prosperity that has been predicted and which has come objectively in total. This is the disparaging of Austrian society, too, that the differences in income between the highest and lowest incomes continue to differ, the wage and income differences between women and men continue to differ, that income from capital and from work are not taxed equally, i.e. an injustice problem that we have to solve in Austria. Against this background, in front of these fears, you are incitement to Europe's scepticism and Europe's fears. You may already be a little more courageous and perhaps the Federal Government will also speak and call on the Federal Government to pursue social policy instead of simply making the European Union bad. That is what we need: Not only a minimum guarantee and a rented pension increase, two months preferred, but we need real justice redistribution policy. And that's your job. That's where you need it. It is not easy to think and to say more information, the citizen has too little information about the European Union, but the citizen and the citizen, who also want concrete social policy in Austria. It is our and your job to also accept and solve this. That is what I am now doing in our conception and guidelines for the European Union. We are absolutely not satisfied in many areas. We want further development. We would like to see a drastic further development in terms of energy policy. We would like a revision of the EURATOM Treaty. We want this funding to get away, and we will use the European people's desire for it. We want the social dimension to be strengthened even more. We want the European Union to be peace-oriented on the road. First steps – submission to the UN Charter, submission to the Convention on Human Rights – are taken with this treaty, but there is still a lot to do and change in politics. I invite you to work on it and not, as now, simply to blackmail the committees. This is not a design for the future: And above all: You obviously do it deliberately to be able to say afterwards, you have no idea. I would also like to make a joint request here in the House today – I am still waiting for the report – to jointly formulate these guidelines with ÖVP and SPÖ, this orientation – peace orientation, stronger ecological orientation, revision conference EURATOM. I hope we come to a conclusion here, and ask you: Intervening You're at a constructive European discourse! Mr Strache, because now you are constantly looking away so demonstrationally [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He's sitting there at least! The others aren't here at all!]] They have indeed claimed in the Graz election campaign that 1938 and the reform treaty are equal. [[Abg. I didn't do that!]] There are only two variants of thought. The one: They do not know – and every student and every student knows – that thousands have been murdered, driven, gassed after 1938, after the so-called connection. [[Abg. I didn't do that! Stay with the truth, Mrs. Glavischnig! They're putting something that no one's done!]] And you're going to do this with the EU reform treaty. [[Abg. I didn't do that!]] No, that's your quote. [[Abg. Strache: I hold that we believe in Austria while you do not believe in Austria! What you're doing here is unreasonable!]] It's unbearable! This is an insult to all the victims of 1938 and next! And I'm asking you to: Take it back!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13717	Ladies and gentlemen, before interrupting the sitting for 15 minutes, I would like to say the following: The ORF has announced to us that it will carry out the TV transmission until 15.09. The That is, we have nine minutes more speaking time, which will then be divided during the last two rounds. This will be done by Mrs Glawischnig. The sitting was suspended until 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13755	I'll start the interrupted session again. The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13788	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Not because we had fears or wanted to startle fears, not because of a, as Mr Wittmann has said, disgraceful attitude, we demand what many, many Austrians demand, because we demand a referendum on this Treaty of Lisbon, and we demand it because there are good arguments for that. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It is good arguments that our legal expert, Professor Schackschneider, has put forward in committee – and I have to correct you, Mr President – and that have moved him to put his expertise in such a way as to make it clear that the amendment of the Austrian federal constitution by the new reform treaty is so comprehensive that a referendum must be held. By the way, Professor Schackschneider is not any one, but he is the legal expert who has succeeded in preventing the German President Horst Köhler from signing the predecessor of this reform treaty, the Constitutional Treaty, so he was right in Karlsruhe. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Under German constitutional law!]] On the other hand, you, by the ÖVP, the SPÖ and the Greens, will today ratify the so-called reform treaty. You're doing this on the second run, because the first time you did it on the 11th. You have failed to ratify its predecessor, the Constitutional Treaty, in May 2005 – I voted against it at the time. National elections in France and the Netherlands have destroyed your ratification, and in fact a course correction would have been necessary. Instead, you, Federal Chancellor, I quote, have once said that here in plenary, your task after the failure of the Constitution has been seen as such: How can we save a maximum of this contract? – We believe that this is not at all Your job was! Your job would have been to ask: What price correction should be made in order to ensure that a future treaty will find a majority and the citizens' consent? – That would have been your job! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, however, this new draft has remained largely the same. Mrs. Foreign Minister! You yourself have rejoiced: 95 percent have stayed the same! – Only by knowing that, because now some speakers have tried to get this treaty down a long way and say: It's not worth all the effort, it doesn't change anything! – By the way, you might also ask: And what do we need him for? However, Giscard d’Estaing has also clearly stated. He says it's the old letter in a new envelope. You will therefore agree to this Treaty together without a referendum. The lesson you learned from the first failure was not the one to ask: How do we achieve democratically that we gather a majority of the citizens behind our goals?, but the teaching that you have learned from it was, in fact, somewhat supple, one could say from a democratic point of view – you have done: We urgently need to avoid referendums! And you do this, although constitutional lawyers tell you that there is such a significant change that a referendum is necessary, you do it, although you know from all surveys that a majority of Austrians want a referendum, and you do it, although you have seen that many thousands of citizens have demonstrated in the last few days and weeks because they call for their right to a referendum. If you're so convinced it's good, I'll ask you: Why don't you allow a referendum? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The lack of information would also be reflected in a debate of the fore and reluctance. We could exchange arguments, everyone could take a picture. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: But you have no arguments!]] - Yes, I'll give you an argument. What has been delivered here was partly completely no arguments at all. It's quite clear, too. Mr Klubobmann Schüssel asked: Why actually a referendum? Ratification by the elected representatives is equally worth it. If you talk about the value, then, I mean, a vote of the entire nation is much more valuable. I think you have to see that. A referendum – one could tell him about it – is a means of direct democracy. He doesn't seem to like it much. Democracy is a healthy means of ensuring that the elected representatives do not continue to remove themselves from the people and that the gap between the rulers and the rulers does not become as great as it is now unfortunate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This gap is as big as it has never been in the Second Republic. You should be advised to consider the essence of democracy, where it is essential for your own political goals to bring together a majority. Less can't be done. They don't want to go through this effort anymore. They stand on the extremely arrogant point of view: We know what's good, we know where it goes. Those who do not go along are either too stupid, do not understand – this has been heard by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and Mrs. Foreign Minister Plassnik: the people do not understand it – or they are equal to those who have a bad attitude. We strongly reject this and also tell you: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It is not a good democratic way to admit not to the opponent that he has arguments, but to put him under bad attitude or stupidity. Mr. Klubobmann Cap was just too gracious with us. He spoke of fears that some have, and he said that we must eliminate fears that we are instigating or perhaps even having ourselves. It's just not fears. How little do you appreciate the citizen? The citizen has a political will, can take a picture and come to a conclusion. If you do not assume that, then you question democracy. Are you aware of that? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There are, by the way, good arguments for a referendum. I'll try it with one. Article 1 of our Constitution means – now still –: "Austria is a democratic republic. Their right stems from the people.” On the other hand, there is the priority of EU law, as you know. The priority of EU law and the fact that the law is based on the people – this is a contradiction that no one can ever talk about. Now we also see who is cheating and who is not dealing with true arguments. This EU priority, which is contrary to Article 1, a building block of the Constitution, was a crucial argument for all those who say there must be a referendum. What do we read on the homepage of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Here we read: “In the run-up to the ratification of the 2005 Constitutional Treaty, a few legal experts in Austria believed that a referendum could be necessary because of the Treaty provision on the basis of which EU law is governed by national law. This provision has been deleted in the EU Reform Treaty. This also removed this argument for a referendum." This is the famous contract we have studied very closely. [[The speaker keeps the Treaty of Lisbon up to date.]] What is referred to as “17. Declaration on priority’? “The Conference points out that the Treaties and the law of the Union on the basis of the Treaties, in accordance with the constant case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, are a priority over the law of the Member States under the conditions laid down in that case-law.” There it is again. It is no longer under the heading, but in the explanatory notes annexed to the Final Act – in the same legal order! [[Abg. Street: explanatory notes for the right!]] So what is called someone who tries to deceive his real goals? It's actually called a cheater. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Describing You don't let us, but go in and think about your own tactics! We believe that the priority of EU law and also the widespread departure from the principle of unanimity are crucial steps towards the state. We also believe that citizens understand that the power centre is going from Vienna to Brussels. One can now want that – we don't want it – but at least this basic orientation in Austrian politics requires a referendum. You can't cheat on that. You then conclude, if you are missing the arguments, with arguments that go so emotionally that you should not say anything more about them. Like, for example, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, the story with “EU – never again war”. Firstly, I wonder what the rapid recognition of Kosovo – a unilateral declaration of independence – will do, but: we have not had war so far. The argument is not conclusive! We do not need to ensure peace in Europe by building a centralist state. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] The other argument that comes back again and again: We are then completely alone in the field of globalisation. Just as well one can see the matter in such a way that the EU is in fact not the protection from globalisation but the engine of globalisation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But they also make a significant mistake in thinking: They match the EU with Europe. You, Federal Chancellor, have even gone up to saying that the EU is the most successful project of civilisation. I can only tell you one thing: Read the demographic statistics! Then you know one thing: As the EU is, it is a project with due date. Europeans are going to have to go out of this Europe, because there are far too few children. This alone is an argument against social policy coming from the EU! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] We believe that the EU's path is wrong. We criticize the EU as Europeans. We do not believe that it is good for the national states to give up their sovereignty to a large extent and to create a form of government based on the principles of Europe, namely freedom, self-determination and diversity, in particular with a view to premeditating and destroying identity and diversity. We consider another way to make sense, the path originally planned, namely the path of a Europe of the Fatherlands. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also think that the way you are going in Austria is wrong. We'll tell you: No state and no democracy can continue to rule against the majority will of the population! It's going to be after this 9. April 10th, an April 10th. April. Everything is just one step, and nothing is irreversible. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] We will ensure and will not fail to ensure that there is a course correction in favour of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13968	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13989	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, after the first part of the debate on this EU Treaty of Lisbon, is there a disaster and the fall of Austria, as the critics claim, or is it the great blessing and the forward-looking course that the advocates think? I believe and know that in politics it is always unpopular when you say it is not black or white, but something in the middle. It is a compromise of the compromise that has become necessary because the European Union is currently being organised by rules – the Treaty of Nice – which has been designed for 15 Member States but which we now have 27 Member States in the European Union – and not 25, as one or other Member has believed, that is interesting. Therefore, it is clear from this mathematical size alone that there has to be something new. That is why it was also our commitment to the so-called EU Constitution – as this Parliament was also involved, Members of all political groups were involved – to create a suitable new basis for the functioning of the European Union. It was a compromise. We celebrated a lot of positive things at the time, also here in the House, such as the fact that the competence for water resources remains among the national states and thus also with Austria, as well as other areas. At the time, however, we have also criticised the fact that this EU constitution is not a pan-European – I stress once again: European – referendum to signal that this is a concern not only for bureaucrats and institutions, but also for the future of the European Union, namely the people of this continent. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is why such important fundamental changes are to be made throughout Europe. That is not what we wanted because we obviously feared this campaign and this referendum. In the end, there was a failure of referenda in France and in the Netherlands. That was a big disaster, you didn't know what to do. Then you have ordered many years of thought breaks, where you have hoped again that something great new will come out now. Now we have this Treaty of Lisbon, which is a compromise of the compromise, no longer, but also no less. It is better than what we have now, but these years of pauses of thought, I think, could have been used for something more reasonable, namely for a real change in the Europe of the future, and not for a contract that is really illegible, which has now been presented. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, it is water on the EU's opponents' mills, and of course it is not about the content of the Treaty, because there is really nothing so serious inside. Mr. Strache – he has gone out now – has to be asked about the issue of seriality – I debate this in peace – if you say it is in this EU Treaty that a preventive war of attack of the European Union will be possible, or that the Petersberg tasks are subject to a duty of assistance. The Petersberg tasks were defined in a Treaty in the 1990s, and this was about peace efforts outside the EU territory. There was no mention of a guarantee of assistance at all. Nor is it right to claim that the death penalty is being introduced and that a common foreign policy now violates neutrality with this Treaty. The objective of the common foreign and security policy is to come from the Treaty of Amsterdam, also from the 1990s. What is being discussed in this way really lacks any basis and damages a serious Europe discussion that we would urgently need in Austria. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, as easy as you do, you must not do it either. After all, when you say: All this is just panic; we already know better what is good for Austria and for Europe; we do not want to involve the people either – and if we do not involve them if they are not questioned, we do not need to inform them either. You don't need to wonder if you don't have any information about this illegible work, you didn't give one either. An advertisement that refers to a homepage is not the necessary information on important initiatives of the European Union, which is certainly to be blamed on you today. [[OBJECTIVES]] Then: There would be a lot of positive things to report, and I am surprised that this is not much more targeted. Especially in security policy, ladies and gentlemen, it is positive that the assistance guarantee is now recorded in writing. It is only on paper anyway, but it is a benefit to us as a small country! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] At the time, I fought for years in the European Councils for a guarantee of assistance to be established in writing, so that the entire European Union, with its capacity for our security, guarantees. Why do we want to be against that? This is an advantage for all of us! Mrs Rosenkranz, it is not true that there would have been no wars in Europe in recent years. Let us remember 1991! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This has already been said by Gusenbauer!]] We believed that nothing would happen after the fall of the Iron Curtain. At our borders has been fought, ladies and gentlemen, you know. We were already here in the high house. At that time, there was a silent, hidden request at the only security alliance, namely NATO, to support small Austria. It has been said that every country must go where it is a member in the face of a threat, and that is the UN. But we all know what UN security guarantees are worth. Let us be glad that the European Union will become a security community step by step! We are the greatest beneficiaries of such a project. In fact, it must be criticized that this is only on paper. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] While a guarantee of assistance and a common security and defence policy has been enshrined in the EU Treaties for ten years, it is not even possible to agree on a common line when it comes to Kosovo, as well as on Iraq and Palestine. There is no common foreign policy. If the organisation of a mission in Chad fails for months – whether you are for it or not – to issue 15 helicopters throughout the European Union, then you do not have to break your head over the paper and about reality. If – often rightly – one complains that the Americans, the United States, are the only world power and do in truth what they want, then do you want little Austria to stay alone and perhaps say anything about it?- Oh, my God! Who'll be interested? The same is true of globalisation: Who will be interested if we, as an Austrian, say that the Chinese should finally comply with environmental standards in the production of clothing, and the Asians should finally ban child labour? – No one will be interested! But it is a requirement of an organisation like the European Union – it still does not, but that would be its task – to act as a strong partner here in order to restrict globalisation in these areas and to ensure justice in world trade, in terms of environmental standards, human rights standards and working conditions. These are the tasks and benefits of a European Union that works. This would also be expected from an offensive information policy of a federal government, ladies and gentlemen. But one is hiding behind a concept of neutrality, because one does not want to admit that one has given up neutrality at the latest with the change in the constitution in 1998. Since then, in the Austrian Constitution, it has been enshrined that fighting efforts to create peace without UN mandates are also possible, ladies and gentlemen. It would be an act of honesty if you said: This has nothing more to do with the neutrality of international law, and we confess to it because we have more benefit in this common security policy than with the instruments of the past. This misinformation and this reluctance create dissatisfaction and fear of the initiatives of the European Union. But I tell you – and that would make you brave, Mr. Klubobmann's bowl, instead of being afraid –: If you take up these positive points here, you need not be afraid of fear. We have an idea – we do not just want to criticize – how this Europe can improve, democratically. I therefore propose a motion for a resolution by Mr Scheibner and Mr Westenthal, where we want to have a renegotiation of the Treaty for Europe, where we want to create a core Europe with the highest degree of integration. The people will decide for themselves whether they want to participate with referendums. All the others just take out modules here. On the extreme side, there should be a partnership for Europe for all countries that cannot or do not want to join. That would be an interesting vision for the future, at a time when we have so few visions for a new Europe. I say quite honestly to you, the EU Treaty is not at all a problem. The problem for me is that you chose the moment now. The reason why I will vote against this EU Treaty today is that, at this time, a public survey initiated by 15 000 Carinthians is deliberately undermined, because it is not intended to be heard here. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] That's the wrong way. It goes exactly in the wrong direction and only paves the way for EU opponents who want to bring down an important project with unsustainable arguments.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14089	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scheibner, Mrs Colleague and others, which has just been presented in his key points, is sufficiently supported and is therefore part of the debate. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14199	Mrs Plassnik has now come to speak. 14 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14221	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, give Get a back and agree! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Their discriminating argument, including the credibility of your argumentation in the security policy field as the former Minister of Defense of the Republic of Austria, contributes much to countering what I consider to be the greatest damage to the mishaps, to the misinformed, to the rumours, and that is the uncertainty. It is not necessary to be unsure, ladies and gentlemen. We have heard many voices in recent days, many voices of anger, anger, disappointment, even powerlessness and fear. There's no reason for that. It's At the time to oppose these voices of confidence, to hear the voices of confidence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This Treaty, the Reform Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon, is good for Austria. That is why I would ask you to agree to this agreement with our representatives of the people. It's not right, it's not enough to demonize this contract or talk to it small. It is a further development, a reasonable development of the legal basis of the European Union. It will enable us to continue to work better in the European Union. There are many reasons, because many screws have been turned in this reform treaty to make the European Union more democratic, more effective, better equipped for the challenges of the future, for this is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. I see a lot of young people in the gallery. I also see some representatives of the mature generations. Our privilege, the privilege of our generation, ladies and gentlemen, is that we can contribute to our home country of Europe, our home country of Austria in freedom. We can, we may participate, we may decide, we may be responsible. And you from the mature generations know this is anything but a matter of course, ladies and gentlemen. The peace project Europe, some of which say that it is no longer an appropriate expression to motivate young people for this Europe, for our common European future, is not yet completed. Look at parts of the Balkans, then you will see that there is no way for young people to participate in Europe in freedom, in the co-responsibility of this Europe, in our Europe, in our home country! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Much remains to be done, this European Union is not perfect with God. No one knows this better than those who work for improvement day after day. It is 27 Member States. This is also an important aspect: This reform Treaty of the European Union is the first joint work that we have created with each other, which can work together today as an equal partner. And Austria is a respected partner in this European Union, a respected partner, an valued partner. We will continue to work on this new legal basis. In my view, I call you three reasons why it is a necessity to implement this reform treaty to put it into effect. This will be the case at the beginning of 2009, because we are not the only country in which the reform treaty is currently being discussed in Parliament. In a total of 16 countries this is the case, seven have already agreed. Reason one: The need for Europe, for the European Union to assert itself in the world. We must therefore tighten up the instruments, the tools available to us. We need to improve them. In particular, the field of foreign policy is an area where demand from our citizens is enormous, not only in the field of internal security. Here, too, the Treaty offers a number of basic possibilities for improvement, even when it comes to our position in the world, our voice in the world. The second point: The need for the European Union to strengthen its identity. And if you take a look at this Charter of Fundamental Rights, if you look at what has been identified here as a common goal, then you will see, even here this Treaty brings us a positive, a reasonable strengthening and further development. The third challenge: Development of future competence. Ladies and gentlemen! The world does not stand as we discuss our basic rules and their adaptations. think about it. We must tackle energy, energy security, climate change offensively. We have to be a pioneer here. We can do the same, and we will do the same. We need to get better organized. We must also become more democratic in this European Union. Here too, there is much progress to make in individual provisions which will help the European Parliament to exercise its responsibility in the shape of our future. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a word about dealing with concerns and doubts. The best thing is to take them seriously, because there is a lot of discomfort, there are many concerns, there are many doubts. But it is also a matter of working seriously on solutions, of trying seriously to find solutions that do not paint an illusory “insularism” on the wall and as a model. That won't help us. To manoeve into deadlocks does not bring us further. Exit fantasies are quite simply non-reality, far from reality. You don't need to talk to anyone. People, when they think, won't believe it either. The game with fear – Mr Klubobmann Strache, you are not here, but I am telling you anyway – is something that our country will not continue to do. It will also not bring the European Union forward. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For the referendum – and I have consistently argued this over the last few weeks and months –: There is no need for this from the point of view of the Austrian federal constitution. And it would also not be a sensible process in Europe. We do not benefit from a flickering of national referenda. We have seen this very clearly in recent years. That is why the line to be taken by Austria here and to argue in the future is the most reasonable line, namely, that of promoting a pan-European referendum. Only then makes sense. Information work: It is a bit easy, of course, to make the information work of the Federal Government, which I, together with the other members of the Federal Government, do now the accusation, it is not enough, it is not serious enough, it is not comprehensive enough, one does not follow people enough, one does not explain it well enough. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a free world, we live in a world in which information is an offer that can be accepted where you can reasonably access the phone, write a letter, click on a homepage. 214,000 people have made use of it, have ordered the written documents, not only in Austria. The first brochure on the reform treaty, which is still very readable, because we will be living with this Treaty for some time, has also found great appeal in the Federal Republic of Germany. The Secretary of State has just brought it to me, as a form of landscape, but it is identically distributed in Germany by the representation of the European Commission in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[The speaker keeps a brochure up to date.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's really very interesting. We were on the market faster, and we have distributed a lot of material, but not to the rejectrs of knowledge, and there are also those who prefer not to know anything about what is fact. And it pays off again and again to look at the facts, ladies and gentlemen. Europe, the European Union is not a finished department store, we know. The most important building materials are commitment, commitment, knowledge. That is what the European Union needs. Austria has achieved a great deal in the European Union and with the European Union. I won't let anyone do that. These are the facts we know. There's a lot of improvement work, we're going to do that. This reform treaty, ladies and gentlemen, is in fact only an opportunity. It's a way to make things better. This will be necessary at all construction sites of this European Union, and there are many. They go through the vegetable beet in the physical work. On all these construction sites dedicated work will be asked by us. Again: The privilege we have in this generation is participation, participation. The fact that the smaller and medium-sized countries in particular always and still, even in this reform treaty, actually have disproportionate institutional weight should also be said. It is not that we come under the wheels, but if we want to shape the future of this continent together and in freedom with each other, if we raise this claim, we must also be prepared to compromise on one point or another. A 100% red-and-white-red European Union does not exist – and will not exist; I am sorry to be disappointed by those who have opted for it. This government agreement is an opportunity to join with our partners and work on the basis of these new rules of law. I believe that this is a worthwhile project, and this is also a work that I ask the young generation to engage accordingly. Take nothing of what you experience today in this Europe of peace, prosperity and security, of course! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We must keep an eye open to the fact that nothing is of course. Even though our generation has no longer had certain experiences: It is sufficient to look to the neighbor to see that not everything is natural. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are working on a better European Union, we are working for Austria: in Austria and in the European Union!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14372	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14409	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, your argument is not at all in line with the vote you are considering. You have presented so many arguments for the treaty that from your point of view it is almost illogical not to agree today, but we know: They are part of the Carinthian regional policy. That's a fact. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it has been interpreted by many inside and outside of this house everything possible – including anything impossible – in this treaty. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the inflationary referendum!]] I would therefore like to make it clear again that today's vote is no more and no less than the question of whether we need to continue working with the existing inadequate and therefore bad contracts or whether we are jointly giving ourselves a new and better basis of contract, which is more appropriate to meet the challenges of the present and, above all, the future. Climate change, cross-border crime, the challenge of international globalisation, all this, of course, does not stop before the borders of the state, which can only be solved in a larger framework. In order for the European Union to do what people expect from it – rightly expect – it is simply necessary that the EU is also able to decide with 27 Member States. What the majority decisions are about is really a fair balance between the large Member States and the small Member States – and that can only be in the interests of Austria. Finally, the existing rule of law and democracy deficit is being reorganised – at least in part – by the European Parliament being equated with the Council as a legislative body, in most of the policy areas. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, considering that the European Union was founded as a purely economic community and in the past it has also acted as such and has rightly caused dissatisfaction and criticism, it is all the more to be appreciated as progress that the Treaty of Lisbon is now taking an intermediate step towards a social union. Yes, the EU is not yet a social union – we do not need to think about it at all – but it has been laid down by the primary law to enable it to develop there. Of course, the intensity and speed at which this happens depends on future majority relations in the Member States and in the European Parliament. In any event, the Treaty of Lisbon defines social market economy and full employment as the declared objectives of future EU policy. For the first time, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, ladies and gentlemen, social fundamental rights are equated with classic civil and freedom rights, as we know them in conventional constitutions, including in our B-VG. At all events, it is the great added value of the reform treaty that for the first time EU institutions will be subject to a fundamental rights regime – we had not – and this has the consequence of the fact that, of course, secondary law, directives and regulations, must be in conformity with fundamental rights, must be interpreted in accordance with fundamental rights and, of course, must comply with social fundamental rights. So whoever sees this as a step backwards, ladies and gentlemen, should really declare what he/she wants in politics at all. To spread fear, to insure people with untruths, to beat political or even financial capital from it, that is really deeply insidious – and I would even say that is bad. People have a natural fear of new, especially older people or people who may not have just fallen on the butter side of life, but with these fears, ladies and gentlemen, you must not play. You have to take these fears seriously and deal with them consciously. And that's exactly what we did: We have examined all the concerns in detail or have them examined by experts, not only in a hearing in the Constitutional Committee, but for a long time before. Here I can only say, in summary, that virtually all Austrian experts have found that there is no overall change in our federal constitution and no new European state! On the contrary: Experts have even talked about a renationalisation of the European Union, through various characteristics, especially through the subsidiarity review. Now on the topic of neutrality. I would also like to point out that experts, such as Mr Univ.-Prof. Funk, have shown that the reform treaty is even a retroactive respect for our Austrian neutrality, which does not affect the particular character of the defence and security policies of the Member States. In an overall view, I can only say that the Treaty of Lisbon is a major step forward in relation to the existing Treaties, but in no way can there be excessive hopes for one thing, but not for unfounded and exaggerated fears at all. And these shouldn't be startled either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14491	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Karl. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14513	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Leonardo da Vinci has already said that fear is more rapid than anything else. In the context of the Treaty of Lisbon, many unfounded fears – as has already been mentioned several times today – have been startled. That is why I think I am inexcusable, because Europe is simply too important to make it worse by means of fear slogans. Unfortunately, fear also closes the look at the opportunities. And believe me, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Europe offers a lot of opportunities. I experience daily in my profession as a university professor, how important and, above all, how, of course, an unrestricted Europe for the students and the scientists is today. It is natural to visit foreign universities. It is natural to be involved in international networks. The EU's research funding and participation in international research projects are no longer to be considered at Austrian research institutions. The fact that we can speak of an Austrian success story can also be demonstrated by hand-fixed figures. The return on the research rate is impressive 117 percent. However, the benefit of European research funding is by no means limited to universities and research centres, but also to companies, including – and they are expressly mentioned – small and medium-sized enterprises. But if, of course, participation in Europe and the benefit of Europe are in the field of science and research, it is not so obvious that this Europe, which is capable of offering these opportunities, works without further development. Forget Please do not ask that the European Union now includes 27 Member States! Include in your considerations that, for example, the current technological revolution or globalisation create new challenges that go beyond the national borders! Think, for example, of problems such as terrorism, sustainable development, population trends, economic dynamics or the need for social solidarity! The Treaty of Lisbon will further develop the Union in the right direction. This will make it possible to better deal with these problems in the future. However, we are going through this Treaty, which has already been mentioned by my previous speaker, and above all a further step towards the Social Union. The strengthening of the social dimension is reflected, among other things, in the new social cross-sectional clause. In other words, the Union undertakes to take into account the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion and a high level of education and training and health protection. It is also made clear that the EU is seeking a social market economy aimed at full employment and social progress. It is also important to express recognition and promotion of the role of the social partners at Union level, taking into account the differences in national systems. The Union also promotes social dialogue, while respecting the autonomy of the social partners. This clearly strengthens the role of the social partners. Therefore, the abolition of collective agreements, as repeatedly imposed by EU opponents on the Treaty of Lisbon, cannot be said at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the contrary: The Treaty of Lisbon does not alter the fact that social policy falls primarily within the competence of the Member States. It is explicitly stated that the Union only supports and complements the activities of the Member States in this area. The principle of subsidiarity expressed therein is a guarantee that the Union cannot become a centralised, overpowered superstate. In connection with collective agreements, I would like to point out the following point: At the heart of our collective agreements is the setting of minimum rates. And the remuneration is expressly excluded from the competence of the European Union. So you see, fears about this are totally unfounded. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Prehauser.]] The accusation that I am told by an EU opponent by e-mail that the Treaty of Lisbon will give up the right to work in Austria is completely wrong. The Austrian Constitutional Law does not know any fundamental social rights at all, nor does it contain any right to work. A right that we do not have, however, cannot be abolished. Unlike the Austrian Constitutional Law, however, the European Charter of Fundamental Rights very much includes fundamental social rights, such as the right to collective bargaining and collective action. This is another proof that collective agreements will be more protected and not abolished in the future! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] To Mr Klubobmann Strache, who is unfortunately not present, I would like to say the following: He claimed here that the Treaty of Lisbon introduced the death penalty. – I can only advise Mr Klubobmann Strache to read through the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which explicitly states that no one may be sentenced to death penalty or executed. And if it supports the introduction of the death penalty on the European Convention on Human Rights, it must also be pointed out that it is in accordance with Protocol No. 13 is possible. This Protocol deals with the complete abolition of the death penalty. So, please, in this respect, only fears are shaken by him. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, Mr Klubobmann Strache is not only accused of not reading the Charter of Fundamental Rights and this Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, but also of misquoting Professor Mazal. In fact, Professor Mazal has never said that social law should be differentiated between nationals and foreigners. The European social model is aimed at avoiding such differentiations. This view is also represented by Professor Mazal. You see, therefore, that the opponents of the Treaty of Lisbon are unfortunately having a messy discussion, and I think that is a pity for Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14637	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 7 minutes time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14658	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and also in front of the TV screens! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin with a replica on the freedom of parliamentarians, who have long and widely quoted the German Constitutional Lawyer Schachtschneider, who, as one of the experts we have heard in the Constitutional Committee, has meant that the Constitution would be completely amended. I think it is very significant that the self-proclaimed Austrian patriots of the Freedom Party are necessarily drawing on a German constitutional expert, while in the Constitutional Committee Griller and Holoubek as well as Öhlinger – and these are Austrian experts – the fact that this text does not represent an overall change in the Constitution. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you already do so Austrian patriotic, you should do this consistently and not only if it fits you and the scarves just fit. We Greens are in favour of this ratification because we want to change Europe for the better. That's what my colleague, Ollinger, said in the morning: Greens have never wanted everything to stay with the old, and so to speak, we rest on some of the laurels previously reached. We want this Europe to be a better one, we want to fight for this Europe, and that is only with this new Treaty. So far, it has been true that the national governments, i.e. those who sit behind me on the government bank, are in Austria in order to implement laws which the National Council decides, but at the European level, make the laws. For the first time, the European Parliament will have the opportunity to become an initiative itself. And then the liberals, the BZÖ and also many of the opponents who have gone on the street in the last few days say that this is not democratization, that it is not better? It is no better if governments like these can no longer go to Brussels, and later, when they are back, say: We didn't do all that, they're to blame there!? – This agreement will be better, ladies and gentlemen. And that is one of the reasons why we will agree. There are, however, several progress. One is that the power of national governments in the EU is limited. Who would be against it? I really wonder. Further: Parliaments are being strengthened, citizens have more opportunities to make their own popular desire, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Social Europe, public services remain at national decision-making level. – All those who fear that there is a complete neoliberalisation of the European Union. That's not true! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] I can understand many of the fears that people have in times of globalisation, in times of degradation of social security, but I cannot understand the fear of fear. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: There is no fear of anyone! People want to vote on it, that's it!]] To startle fears with false reports, with absurd claims, there is a very clear no, ladies and gentlemen. No, no, no! Disputes for Europe, yes. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But fear makes no use of anyone, even man himself. An important point in this reform treaty – it is no longer a Constitution – is, for example, that all those who fear a militarization of the European Union here – that conflict prevention is now at least equivalent to military operations. This is not in any constitution in this world, even in the Austrian one. The problem we as the Greens have with it is that this is still too little, too little money for conflict prevention, too little money to protect people from persecution, too little money for measures that result in no war. But it stands inside – implementing it must be politics. It is also important that common foreign policy is strengthened. There will be a High Representative or perhaps a High Representative for this Common Foreign Policy. Human rights are further strengthened than the foundations of this European Union. This Treaty strengthens the human rights commitment, the rule of law, which the foreign minister always defends. One of the samples of nails for the importance of human rights in this European Union will be how Austria and how the European Union behaved against China in the Tibet question before the coming Olympic Games. [[Members of the Greens keep a flag of Tibet up to date.]] It will be important for the Austrian Government and the European Union to be united in this respect, for example with regard to the participation of the European Union in the opening event. I think it is a mistake and a contradiction to the common approach if the Council of Foreign Ministers and the European Council are unable to say: We are not going to this opening if, for example, the human rights dialogue with China in May does not bring any measurable and visible progress. The people in Tibet and the other minorities in China, the media, journalists who deserved to have a clear position from the European Union and not to re-enslave and not to argue: [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the BZÖ]] Perhaps we do not, because otherwise there are problems with the economy and then the economy can no longer expand! I am not opposed to economic relations with China, but human rights must have at least the same position in a common European foreign and security policy, which is also contained in this reform treaty and which will be strengthened. That is why, during this debate, we will still make a request for common EU positions and actions on the situation in Tibet. It has already been said at the rallys in Tibet, so that representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP have also made quite certain statements, such as asking for an independent investigation by the UN, for example, to demand a genuine dialogue between the Chinese government and the representative of the Tibetans, the Dalai Lama and so on, about a genuine autonomy and not something about which the Chinese are now saying that this is already autonomy. That's not autonomy! We in Europe know what autonomy for minorities means – for example, South Tyrol, for example Catalonia and many others. We know how important it is that people have a right to their own language, their own culture in the overall context. That's why we find: This requires both the reform treaty and, of course, a common position. – The request will be made by us later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14734	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14755	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated government! Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed the debate from the beginning until now and have tried to share the many positive things that ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens have announced here, but my papers have not been enough. To get it to the point: Mr Bundeskanzler, you say this is the most successful model that exists at all. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Quote Gusenbauer: Austria has become richer. We've gotten safer. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: We have become more freer!]] We get even more fundamental rights than we had before when we accept this agreement. [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] Milk and honey will flow. – The whole thing can no longer be increased at all. I'm just wondering: Why Leave You're not going to vote for this treaty if everything's going to be so great anyway, are you? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I ask you: Why does this not affect our employees? I've already found this in the morning: The Court of Auditors, in its report on the development of 1998-2005, unansweredly notes that wages and salaries have fallen in inflation-adjusted terms. In real terms, workers earn less than 1998! You earn so little that income is no longer sufficient! More than 50 percent of the population find that they have too little income. For example, if I take the country of Tyrol, where there are 800 000 inhabitants – according to ÖGB 100 000! – at risk of poverty, 65 000 live on the poverty line and 25 000 people are no longer able to get out despite work, I ask myself, Federal Chancellor: What's gotten better? What has all become social? – I can tell you: You have forgotten a term, that is, the concept of Austrian citizens; there is no longer any one with you, you have deleted it from your mind. They are talking here and now and in the past about the "EU citizen" and say that everything is getting better for the EU citizen. But for the Austrian citizen, for our people the situation looks completely different. The people realize this, and that is why the people with development – including the development of the social sector – are rightly not satisfied with us in Austria and can no longer hear it at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Indeed, how unfair the development is, I have been confirmed in one of the many responses to the question – for example, one by Mr Bartenstein, the Minister for Economic Affairs, namely the Migrant Workers' Regulation. I have already described this situation, which concerns a situation in Tyrol, several times. It's so incredible that the people don't want to believe me. The following has happened: A Brite is relocated to Tyrol and has been registered in a guest house for a single day. He has previously worked in England, previously paid in to the English social system and has also acquired his insurance periods in the English social system. He moves to Tyrol, is registered for one day in a Tyrolean farm, so the next day he is logged out and, although he has paid only one day in our Austrian system, he receives six months of unemployment benefit and then all the help of the emergency. And who pays for this? – The Austrian State! Our unemployment insurance! It is obvious that this system, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bundeskanzler, cannot function. As a country with 8 million inhabitants, we cannot finance such absurdities in the form of longue for 500 million Europeans. This migrant worker regulation represents an attack on the social pots and thus puts the unfinancing of our social institutions to the fore. The answer to this question is what the previous speaker of the Green Party and ÖVP and SPÖ speakers said several times: There are no longer any national rights that do not apply to EU citizens. That means that – and this is the answer to this question black on white inside – all the rights that an Austrian citizen has are automatically applicable, without limitation, to EU citizens, precisely with this absurd consequence that we have to finance unemployment for half a year through our social security, through our unemployment insurance, for a person who has paid a single day in our system. This is precisely why our social systems break down, and that is precisely why the health insurance companies à la longue can no longer be financed: Because an incredible abuse and fraud also happens with the e-cards and our health insurance companies are no longer able to finance it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Take the concept of Austrian citizens back into your vocabulary – and note that special benefits from the social state, such as child benefits, family allowances and special benefits from the social state, can only be financed through health insurance schemes for Austrian citizens! If, as you do now, you deviate from this principle, there will be a social balance in Europe with the consequence that our citizens pay more and more and less and, of course, get more under control of European citizens. Then: If there's someone who gets more, there's got to be someone who has less. However, from a liberal point of view, it should not be so that the Austrian citizen pays the bill for this bad policy. That's why you're writing. Please re-enter the term “Austrian citizen” into your parent book and look at our people!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14837	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14859	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Values Advisors here in the High House and at home in front of the TV screens! And especially when I look at the gallery of this House: Today there have been many representatives of the Austrian federal army, who are welcome! In this context, however, I would also like to inform my stranger that today, with all appreciation of the need to visit our troops abroad, our Minister of Defense is not here on this important day and therefore does not have the opportunity to take a position on many military points of this Treaty. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Take a position!]] Then: Although the Minister of Defence may be represented by the Minister of Women, I do not believe that we can expect the Minister of Women to get some information here. [[Abg. May. Worm: Why don't you believe that?- Oh, my God!]] However, I would not only like to make it more detailed today and not just to welcome the honourable Members here in the House, but rather to do something more differentiated. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you enter – and you will know by my differentiation exactly who will be addressed by me – you will They shall determine: There are those who deliberately call for the integration of the Austrian population into the process of ratification. That's a few. There are those who would like to ask for this ratification with the involvement of the Austrian population – that is known from many personal discussions – but they must not. And there are a lot of Members here – and this is probably the majority – who are conscious of the involvement of the Austrian population in this ratification process. Since I don't hear any calls from the ranks now, I should have met very well. [[Abg. Murauer: You will still call them!]] Mr Murauer! I do not need to remind you that there is an article 1 of the federal constitution in which it reads: "Austria is a democratic republic. Their right stems from the people.” [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Murauer.]] There is a representative democracy which has today been strengthened by both Mr Klubobmann Schüssel and Mr. Second President Spindelegger, as has Mr Wittmann from the SPÖ, but always bearing in mind the fact that surveys are different: The latest IMAS survey states that 70 percent of Austrians want to be involved in this ratification, want to express their opinion, and only 14 percent of Austrians want a single entry of Parliament. In other words, you do not consider this fact in the absence of Article 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act, yet do not involve the population and want to decide over it the Treaty. We will certainly not support this, because this approach is strongly rejected by our side! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If Mr Klubobmann Schüssel has held that the Republic needs Mutmacher... – Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, if I may ask for your attention briefly: [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel talks to the Abg sitting next to him. Grillitic.]] You have stated in your opinion on this ratification that the Republic needs Mutmacher, and not fearmakers. I'll tell you: It would be important for the Republic to have reconnaissances, those who involve the population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then: What pure courage has been said under a red and black German government, we have seen when joining the European Union. There have only been positives here, and it has simply not been discussed in general, clarified and the population has really been pointing to the less positive points of the Treaty of Accession. Coming to the next part, which I would like to address, I must say that from the BZÖ's side really everything was done, but last but not least because of the negative attitude of the SPÖ and the ÖVP on 25 February. In March 2008, it became clear from the Constitutional Committee that no national survey will be carried out. In Carinthia we have initiated a popular participation. It has been voted down by you throughout Germany, with the simple – but false – argument that direct democratic funds should not be used inflationaryly. This has already been said today, but I mention it once again, since it is the untruth that this means would be used inflationaryly, since there has not been a single national survey in this Republic so far. The ratification of this Treaty is really an essential point, an essential issue, and the population belongs to it throughout the country through a popular survey. Taking into account what I have now explained, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As I have already mentioned, this has been rejected several times by you so far. And here I come to a point that makes clear: Where the BZÖ is responsible for government, namely in the Federal Republic of Carinthia, we do not go beyond the opinion of the population, but we involve the population. And it was absolutely not, by no one, not even by colleagues Auer, to justify in any way how to be a democratic, elected representative of the people against the following popular survey text: “Should the Carinthian Government give a favourable opinion on the EU reform treaty?” If it is not fundamental democratic to ask the people what opinion their own country should give, then I wonder what democratic is! It would have been good if many other national leaders had followed BZÖ's head of state Dr. Jörg Haider in Carinthia and had achieved what the Federal Government is trying to prevent by all means at national level. Let me conclude by saying that each Austrian has repeatedly and repeatedly established the innumerable censure attempts, reparation attempts, re-start attempts of this Federal Government, building on the wording: We have a coalition pact, we will no longer prevail in this House in the future. I would remind you, however, ladies and gentlemen, that the more important pact is not the coalition pact, but the pact with the Austrian population. And this pact for the integration of the Austrian population into the legislation would be respected by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14976	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15077	The next item is the speech by Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer with a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15099	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Darmann, I had believed that you had been able to come into Parliament here in order to be able to take democratically legitimate decisions. [[Abg. May. Darmann: I am grateful to the Constitution!]] Mr Darmann, what does that mean when you say: The ‘single entrance of Parliament’? Does this mean that you agree with this Parliament, that is, the democratic legitimacy itself, to make decisions? [[Abg. May. Darmann: I was praised for the Constitution!]] Mr Darmann, then consider whether you want to be here in the future at all if you question Parliament and its democratic legitimacy. I have always believed that parties and personalities are candidates to make decisions here. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] I mean, this has to be said about this discussion, about a discussion that I think is quite exciting. But on one point, Mr Strache, along with many others, I must contradict you very fundamentally and very emotionally. They go out here and say that the Austrians had been “manipulated” into the European Union in 1994. Two-thirds of the Austrians claim not to have known how they decide? [[Abg. Street: The population has received wrong information from you!]] Two thirds of Austrians speak Do you have your own decision-making capacity? [[Abg. Street: The population has received wrong information from you!]] Yes, Mr. Strache, what are you saying? You're going to get in the corner with your argumentation yourself and make it Your argumentation absolutely ridiculous! They lead themselves ad absurdum! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If you call a result of a referendum that you don't like to fit as manipulation, then you're actually saying what you want: You want Austria to leave the Union! And the logical consequence of your argumentation would have to be that you want the referendum to motivate the Austrians to be manipulated. That is the truth, Mr. Strache. Don't hide behind Shina arguments. [[Abg. Strache: You should listen and not make false submissions!]] Now I ask you: Where is a supposed – or not supposed – but I know – long tradition of the Austrian Freedom Party disappeared? In your party history, you have often said here in this House that the Austrian Freedom Party was one of the first – and it is true historically – of Austria's accession to the European Union. [[Live calls to the FPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] Yes, Mr Strache, what have you given up in the meantime? What did you do about it? [[Abg. Strache: That was a different model! What have you done from the model Europe? Today, the honor rations generate what you made of this model!]] Mr Strache, you have agreed on a state-political responsibility, and what you want is that Austria withdraws from the European Union. And here I will and we will stand against it quite massively! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: No, no, you have agreed to the State of Austria, Mr. Vice-Chancellor!]] I do not leave you the future of the country, Mr. Strache. And now I'm telling you something very personal. My parents told me a lot about the experiences of the Second World War, including my father's. I told my sons how I first went to East Berlin and visited Prague for the first time, in 1975. – Mr Strache, do you not notice anything? The fact that Europe has changed this continent has changed to the positive? [[Abg. Strache: But what does this have to do with the Constitutional Treaty?]] It is peace on this continent, Mr Strache, and my children, my two sons, can certainly go to Prague today, to Bratislava, and the people there have gained freedom. Mr. Strache, do you want to turn this back? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: What does it have to do with that we carry the Austrian constitution to the grave?- Oh, my God!]] We have entered this referendum with four major questions, that is true. [[Abg. Strache: What does this have to do with the Constitutional Treaty?]] – Listening Please! I have listened carefully to your speech and have not called in. Those who shout out loud have few arguments. [[Abg. Street: That's why you take the right to vote for the people!]] Mr Strache, we have said that we want Europe to go on the path of peace. And I can tell you that we have been a little bit further in Europe over the last few years, even decades. Doesn't that bother you? Mrs Rosenkranz, you stand out here and say that we have not had a military debate in Austria. – Yes, that’s right, but that’s not enough for me! Is it not important for you to have peace in the Balkans? Is it not for It is important that peace exists throughout Europe? Is it not also important for you to recognise that the European Union has enabled Europe to reunite? Is it not also important for you that the idea of European unification has overcome Communism? Ignore that, just push it to the side? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The second perspective we have offered: Prosperity. – Yes, this European agreement contributes to greater prosperity in Europe, including in Austria. But if we want the gaps to come together in Europe, that people do not have to walk, do not have to leave their home country, then we must try to increase the overall prosperity, and that is our responsibility as a rich country, Mr. Strache. If you define red-white-red in such a way that you don't want to look over the edge of the plate, then you're hurting Austria! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] Red-white-red was always European, ladies and gentlemen! If you – for example – address security, it is not enough for me to say that in Austria we are a “island of the Blessed” – which, by the way, is no longer true – but I would like to have security on this continent. [[Abg. You're right! You did that!]] Only if we have security in Europe can Austria live safely. Therefore, security is not a red and white-red concern alone, but a European perspective. If you're talking about Austria being enough for yourself, I'll ask you: Can Austria be able to cope, for example, with the international financial market crisis alone? Can Austria even resist the giants of the world alone? - No, we need more! We must realize this life model, this democratic, market-friendly society, but all over the world! I make this claim. It's just not enough for me to say: Everything's okay with me at home, and I don't care about the rest. This policy understanding has been in this country with the exception of you, thank no one, Mr. Strache, and I also want to see Austria tick differently in the future than you say here. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] Now the question is: How can this Treaty, which we are discussing today, be assessed? And I'll tell you quite openly: This contract is not the solution of all questions – not at all; no one has put this claim at all! – but he brings us on in many questions. If you want this treaty to be rejected today, you have to tell people what you do with what you reject. First: You reject the strengthening of your rights here in Parliament. You are weakening yourself if you reject this Treaty because you can personally speak for the first time in European legislation. I trust you – perhaps You're not yourself – that's all. But be more confident than parliamentarians! Yes, we want to talk with you! - That must be the message. How to lean If you reject the contract, for example, in the catalogue of fundamental rights? – For example, they reject a fundamental right, which means: Equality between women and men in all areas. You'd reject that. [[Abg. Strache: But we have them in Austria! What's the new thing? That's ridiculous!]] For example, Mr Strache and Mrs Rosenkranz, you would – and I know that you, Mrs Rosenkranz, are concerned and I very much respect this – reject the fundamental rights of the children. [[Abg. Strache: We don't have these in Austria? No fundamental rights for children?- Oh, my God!]] Here's what it says: Children are entitled to protection and care necessary for their well-being. – You would reject this because these fundamental rights only become reality with the Treaty. That's what I'm telling you: Take this political responsibility in a comprehensive sense and really tell people the truth about what you want! If you want to leave Europe, this is your legitimate right. I respect this position – but I will fight against it with every fiber, because for a self-confident Austria, a strong Europe is the only right perspective for the future, and not because Europe is paradise, but because Europe is a massive force for us Austrians to represent our self-confident position and a strong Europe gives us Austrians and all the other people in Europe and in the world positive prospects. Who, do you think, is in the world front runner, leading in the discussion, for example, in the field of climate protection? – It is Europe! Who, do you think, is responsible for the social rights of workers? – It is Europe! Who, do you think, is leading the question of equality between men and women? – It is Europe! Who, do you think, is leading all the environmental issues? – It is Europe! All this isn't good enough yet, but if you want it to get even better, then be for it, you say yes. No answer for the future, yes the answer must be for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15391	The ORF receives the TV transmission until 15.09. However, I still have to reduce the speaking time of the last round from 7 to 6 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15415	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Darmann has provided an example of what the problem with BZÖ is, but partly with the liberals: They claim things, put them in space, make accusations without research and think about the truth content. He has said here that the Federal Minister for Defence does not find it worth taking part in the assembly. It's true, he's not here. But why isn't he here, colleague Darmann? – Because on his return trip from Chad, he inquired of the soldiers there, which has become out of service. Mr Darmann, it will not be for the Minister of Defence to see whether this negotiation is going well, but for what we are exchanging with each other on arguments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] If we put something in the room, it should be true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! “Heeding hot, fighting wildly, lies in the ground you’re in the middle” – I don’t think anyone here knows this phrase from our federal anthem. It was created from history, but it is also very true of it. Geographically, Austria was always in the middle of Europe, not politically for decades. The Europe project has managed to get us back into the real political center. The Europe project is a peace project that seeks the same. We should be very, very proud of this, and we should work every day to ensure that this situation is still being expanded. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Europe has, of course, also become an economic empire in which we all participate together. I remember in 1994 the discussions in connection with the referendum on accession to the EU. I remember what arguments were put forward. The Federal Chancellor has already reminded us of the shielding blaze today, of the blood chocolate. To stop exaggerating absurdity were these two examples, but the harm on the matter is that at the time it succeeded with this kind of argumentation, one The European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council will be able to vote against the report by the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. Today, ladies and gentlemen, arguments have been put on the table again, which, of course, sound similar when you light them through. I thank the “Salzburger Nachrichten” – also the “Kurier” has often prepared it well – for printing these articles with the title “Dichting and Truth”. [[The speaker holds a newspaper section in the height.]] Under the heading of 'pocket', it appears exactly those points that you, ladies and gentlemen of BZÖ and FPÖ, want to put on the table and prevent for Europe. That is exactly what you want to prevent. Let us think back a little in our history – in recent history – when Austria was not yet a member of the European Community when it was very, very difficult to be built up after the war! Professor Van der Bellen has also said – he himself worked in Germany – how difficult it was to get employment abroad. I myself also worked in 1968 after the ground defense service in Germany, in Frankfurt, and I can say that there I deserved the triple of what would have been possible in Austria. I wasn't the only one! We know very well that at this time many thousands of Austrians in Switzerland, Germany, were working in Sweden – exactly those forces that our country needed so much to build up the country faster. Only: It was not possible because the claim to work was not given in the form. Today we are on the other side of the way. Today, job seekers from Germany, also from Sweden, also come from Switzerland to Austria and participate in our success. Ladies and gentlemen, we also owe this to the European Community, but also to the ability of our entrepreneurs and employees in this country to make sure that we can achieve a lot in Austria if you want to. The security is very important to us, and that is an important point for me as an interlocutor. The end of neutrality has also often been pointed out – we know that is contradicted, that is not true in this form. If it is said that Austria's soldiers must go to war, I can remind you, ladies and gentlemen – you learn this in the primary school or in the lower level of the gymnasium –: The Federal Assembly decides whether we are going to war or not; at the same time you, ladies and gentlemen, are also members of the Federal Assembly! We are told that the Federal Army will have to be upgraded. – It is you who remind us every day: The Federal Army belongs to modernized and equipped. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we want to do well with our orders, which we ourselves impose, which we select ourselves, which no one in Europe can impose on us, which we decide together here. We need well-equipped soldiers to do this, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister is convinced just how our soldiers in Chad are doing. He'll be able to report to us tomorrow. Let me conclude by saying: I'm proud to be a Wals-Siezenheimer. I'm proud to be a Salzburgian. I'm proud to be an Austrian. But I am glad that these three situations of my life lie in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15532	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15554	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Especially Mr. Federal Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen who accompany us on the gallery or on TV screens. It was certainly a difficult process to this day. In many discussions with the citizens, but also in the committees, we have dealt with matter. There is no doubt that, as all legal experts have said, Parliament can do the ratification today. Yeah, it's nothing so good that it couldn't get better. It's an old folk wisdom. Europe is good. No question! We have also benefited from this over the past years and decades, but we are required to actively participate in further development. Just this Treaty of Lisbon is, if you want, a ticket on the way to the future with our citizens. I think that this new Europe with 27 members also needs a basis for continuing this good path. Today, we have often been told what rights we give. It is precisely as a parliamentarian that we must see and know that our rights – and this has already been mentioned several times – are strengthened, because we can intervene in legislative processes if we find that the European Union is overcoming its rights and that national rights as such would be weakened. The generalized provision, a much debated issue, is clearly regulated here. Regional administrations, especially public transport, are responsible for social services and health services. I think there's a question of reality. This has been present in a wide range of areas, but in some contributions it has been possible to detect exaggerated emotions. Perhaps some of the media that have made their own subject matter or reporting for purely business reasons in the last few days and weeks. I think we as parliamentarians have clearly shown how the way in this country last It will continue at the end of the year. Through mobility and freedom within the European Union, we have advantages, that is not a question. However, we must also be very clear about the new dangers. In particular in the field of security and justice, there is a new possibility of combating terrorism and combating crime. These are all very important issues so that we can also find a good, peaceful cooperation in the coming years and decades. The Treaty thus strengthens solidarity within the Member States. All of this is important because there is a very big change in the economy, in society, even in all political areas. Ladies and gentlemen, it may already be true that one often complains that there have been too many rules in the economy and administration since we joined the European Union. But here we are called upon not to exaggerate them, but to make it clear where they are applicable and important for our economy as a whole and to be properly applied. Especially in the food sector, we have made a very successful way in recent years. We have set up the fine food shop in Austria. Yes, it was. It is possible because the agricultural sector has also gone along. It is very often polemized the whole issue of compensation payments. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say this very clearly: We have gone along the European path clearly. Agriculture has introduced its services. This has ensured more than 500 000 jobs in agriculture and the downstream and downstream areas, thus ensuring the best basic food for our citizens today and for all futures. I think that you also have to come back here to the subject matter and not just ‘check’ one-dimensionally or address something that may be so cheap and so easy to tell, where, in truth, the whole thing is to be seen. Europe – we all know – is not conflict-free. Europe is not paradise either, no. But it's an important part of this world where we live. We are asking for vigilance, and I think we all have to contribute to the preservation of some of the most important areas of importance to our lives: to safeguarding prosperity, to the provision of living, to the means of education, to social standards and also to ensuring peace. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Publishers never win, winners never give up. We were winners on wide distances. That is why we say quite clearly: Yes to the Reform Treaty!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15621	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. 6 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15642	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Europe and the European Union have not only made clear to the Austrian Parliament – but today it is about us – and, as I believe, they have asked a very clear question for everyone: Is the Austrian Parliament prepared to make the next step towards European unification possible by ratification? We Members have been elected so that we can clearly say to all the people of this Republic what we represent, what we stand for and what this Parliament should do on behalf of the citizens. There is not the slightest reason for me to avoid this responsibility. For me, there is not the slightest reason to hide me behind the appearance of direct democracy and to say: As a Member of Parliament, I am not in a position to be open to the people of this Republic and, if it is necessary, to represent mine and our position in all contradictions. This is part of the profession of the elected Member in this House. It is a pity that there are Members who do not take their own profession, their own commitment, seriously enough to know. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] This Parliament has many questions to answer, one of which is the question of Austrian neutrality. This question is quite easy to answer: In this reform treaty – not hidden in footnotes somewhere, but simply legible and understandable, if you are still powerful in reading and if you are ready to understand – it is quite clear that Neutrals come into a particularly promising position. They can for the first time prevent all of the Union's joint actions, particularly in the military field, by simply blocking no, and at the same time they cannot be forced to do anything. Such a position of neutral states has not existed in the European Union until this Treaty. Now it is not for me to discuss whether neutrality will be eliminated. Mr Strache, you know that this would require a constitutional change that is likely to be a referendum on this – I think it is right! – would have to take place. In this context, there is no single request for a constitutional change. Saving So you're kidding me! It is rather an answer to the political question: Will the Federal Government benefit from this possibility? Will it be committed to further development and partly to a change in European security policy? The question in Europe is no longer the question: Neutrality versus Europe, but: a common European peace policy based on international law with mandates of the United Nations versus the presumption of perhaps not only a military superpower, in the face of letters and the spirit of international law and also of the opposition of the European Union and many people in this world, to take military action. Europe's proposal is: not wars, but a common system of military security issues based on international law. Our model is the model of South-East Europe. Explain to the people of south-eastern Europe, who are not yet used to living in peace in Austria for decades, that this is a matter of course! Explain They have the meaning of such discussions when in the Balkans every affected person and every affected person knows that they urgently need to enter an empire and an area of peace and security! That's what it's all about. But I do not understand one thing: why the Federal Government so defensively represents it, why the Federal Government is hiding so much, why it has not conducted this debate more openly. I believe that sometimes it is a pleasure for the government not to say: Yes, the cold progression that eats away income is not Brussels's fault, that's homemade in Vienna. Yes, the state of education, it is not Brussels' fault, that we have to answer in Vienna. Yes, the situation in care, that is not Brussels' fault, that is our own fault. I think it is too much required of a federal government to say openly and honestly that from inflation to airspace surveillance, our problems are not primarily from Brussels, but are homemade. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a cheap excuse, which sometimes also benefits the government, if it dipped and lets people shudder in Brussels, if actually Vienna and if actually Gusenbauer, Molterer, Plassnik and Schusel are meant. That's why it's only a half day. If we do not take seriously what the fears of the people are – and from inflation, from the risk of medium-sized people to the risk of risk to our school system, to the need for care, we have enough problems to solve in part in Vienna, partly in Brussels – if there is no joint government project to make Europe an environmental union and a social union, if there is no way that the government can say together, we want to benefit Europe to make hopes out of fears of people, then today is not much to celebrate. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] Then we will take a step forward in Europe, but I fear that only a change in Austrian politics will make this an opportunity for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15704	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15727	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Who would have thought this a few years ago, but perhaps even decades ago, that Peter Pilz – with the claim to be the greatest revolutionist against the establishment and against a system – shows such wear and tear that he is now speaking here and becomes a advocate, almost a unconditional advocate of a European Union! – Time makes it possible. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Apparently it is the train to power and the last chance to bring a pre-option to a possible coalition government that will lead you to this step, but that's your problem. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You can also be failed!]] Obviously, the true greens, who can still remember their roots, are about direct citizenship, direct democracy and similar things, are no longer sitting here in Parliament, but outside. Maybe they'll be inside soon – and you'll be outside again! [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to you today, because a lot has been said about beautiful words and about the importance of words, and about what influence language has had on the political debate, on the level on which culture has been brought, a few quotations from a constitution – and I say right away, it is not ours – to show you how important that is what is being said there. I quote from this Constitution: “Awareness and protection of the dignity and freedom of personality are a command for all state institutions.” ‘Free of conscience and faith are guaranteed.’ “Every citizen” can express “his opinion freely and publicly”. “The personality and freedom of every citizen” “are untouchable.” – The colleague Ollinger already knows where that comes from. [[Abg. Oils: American!]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] “Legal care” “protects the freedom, peaceful life, human rights and dignity.” It all sounds incredibly impressive, and basically one could assume that this is not at all possible at all, better and more democratic at all. That is exactly what a large part of the problem lies in, and that is why I am telling you, because all of this is only true if, by the way of the government and the Greens, it is only natural that this EU Constitution, as it is written down, also corresponds to what the spirit of this European Union is, and in turn, it corresponds to what is the reality that people experience every day. Do you know how these wonderful quotations come from human dignity and freedom? From the GDR Constitution – from a “wonderful” democratic country, as we all know! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One even had the word “democracy ” in the state name. We know that they have protected their own citizens in order to preserve them in their happiness, with walls and barbed wire. We know that freedom of expression has been trained to the point where a monitoring device – Mr. Pilz is an expert – has been built. So basically quite, quite wonderful, when you judge it by the letter and not apply the living reality as a scale. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to put myself now to the suspicion that what has been praised today as the greatest civilisational achievement of humanity, namely this EU reform treaty – this quote will also go into the appropriate form; we now know that the EU Treaty represents cultural creational achievements such as the writing and similar in the case of Weitem, the wheel is nothing against this EU Constitutional Treaty; the German Chancellor Gusenbauer has once again set a milestone – to want to compare it with the GDR. But the crucial point is that – and that is what it is all about! – that if you want to learn a little bit from history, you are suspicious of what is written somewhere. Only because “constitution” is on a cover sheet does not mean that what stands inside is also living reality. If you have been broken by the government parties – and in particular you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, who have laid down a belly canonade and in the last few months every promise you could give – here you are producing and saying that this Constitution has achieved the greatest civilisational achievement that you can even imagine, then you must not be surprised that people are very skeptical and that you have to face suspicion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the concerns of hundreds of thousands of people who have signed against this reform treaty and the concerns of thousands of people who have protested against it should take you seriously! You should also take seriously the concerns of the people who did not say it out loud that they are against it, but who will still report to you, with a cross on the poll at the next elections! We liberals take these concerns seriously. And we do so in the social field. In what is produced under headings or formulated in some words, where one writes fundamental rights, but where even the people who want to help you anyway – people from your own preliminary organizations, from the Chamber of Workers and from the union – say that what stands in there is wonderful, it is only missing the instruments to implement it, which in good German means that this is not really worth something, because one can sue these rights at the Salt Office and anywhere else, one must already ask whether this European Union really, as you promise, becomes fairer. We'll tell you: She's not getting fairer! There will be an adjustment of social systems and social levels, but this adjustment will take place downwards. This European Union has nowhere to say that it is about securing the high social standards that we know. What it writes in is that free competition is the “sacred cow”, and this free competition has to function unimpeded and unhindered. And what does “disturbed and unhindered ” mean? In other words, with as few work-related disabilities as possible. That is to say, with as much flexible a mass as possible of workers. This basically means that the labour market can be designed according to the needs of a neoliberal group that governs this European Union, by deducting labour law. That's the content! There is nothing in there of high social levels. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I quote once again Professor Mazal, because he has said so beautifully – I have suspected anyway, he has promised, but he has said it and has not taken it back – what is expected of us in this EU reform treaty. He said – I quote –: “Today’s social level cannot be kept under the justice aspect and the solidarity of the Member States.” – This is our social level! And on top of that: "It would not be fair and solid, we would maintain our level and hold back further development in the new member countries. It may be that we have to say goodbye to our social levels." I say: It can't be just, it'll be like that! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen – I come to the conclusion of my remarks – you are elected mandates, take your own attention, but do not take yourself too important and do not take more importance than the population is!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15843	Next, Mr Dolinschek. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15864	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The ratification of the EU reform treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon, which repeals the Treaty of Nice, which several EU Member States are known to have rejected after there has been a referendum on it – not in all; even with us, this has not been the case – has now become quite simply a necessity. And that's where the superiors in Brussels said: Now we are going to vote in the individual parliaments of the EU Member States, which are moving to preventative democracy, then we have a unity! In Ireland we simply go here and send the Bertie Ahern home. There we see a new head of government coming, and then the whole thing fits back, and we have a unit here! It cannot be said that those countries that voted against the Treaty of Nice say that the Treaty of Lisbon contains something quite different, something much better, and that those countries that voted in favour of the Treaty of Nice say that the Treaty of Lisbon contains the same thing, because there is no need to be afraid at all, that is a wonderful thing. So simple, very honored Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be done because we are talking about issues that are of the utmost importance to our state and to all its citizens, Mr Oellinger, as in the field of agriculture, in the energy sector. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right!]] Yes, what do you say – you agree now! – to the nuclear lobby in Europe? She'll be over there! Although we are nuclear-free in Austria, a supergau does not stop at the national borders. Furthermore, climate protection. - That's legitimate. That's where I say you have to see that globally. That's all right! Other points: Tourism, civil protection and, above all, social matters. It has already been said today that a social levelling will take place downwards. We will feel this more strongly in the future at the maritime health insurance companies. Everyone from an EU country can go to an Austrian hospital at the rate of their country of origin, and we have to pay the rest, the taxpayers in Austria. This also applies in the case of unemployment. If a person has been employed in an EU country, comes to Austria and works for a day, he receives unemployment benefit. An Austrian must work for this first one year in order to have a right to unemployment benefit. This is a levelling down, and this is to the detriment of the Austrians. It can't be like that! That's what people have to say. This does not mean to be insecure, but to tell people the truth. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Federal Minister for European and International Affairs, it is extremely incomprehensible to me how to take an attitude in this office against holding a referendum on the EU reform treaty. In my opinion, a referendum should take place throughout Europe at the same time. This attitude of the Federal Government surprises me even in view of the situation in the Austrian population. According to IMAS, more than two thirds, 70 percent of the Austrians are for a popular survey and a referendum on the EU reform treaty, and only 14 percent say: Well, we don't really need that, but the parties in Parliament can vote on it! After the 1994 referendum, which led Austria to the EU with 66 percent of the votes, the people should now, after 14 years, be given the opportunity to express their will from the point of view! In my opinion, that would be the right thing. If you, Federal Chancellor and Mrs Foreign Minister, are talking about ‘insurance’, I can tell you: The red shark in Upper Austria, Mr Erich Haider, also calls for a referendum on the EU reform treaty, as we wish. Where's the difference?- Oh, my God! – The Erich Haider only talks about it, but the orange Haider in Carinthia does something! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The Austrian Federal Government should have voted in favour of a referendum in all the states. And why the hurry now? It was originally said that in June this House should vote on it. This vote has now been preferred. There are seven EU countries that have already ratified this EU reform treaty. After there are more than 15 000 signatures from Carinthia, where one has voted for a popular survey, one simply prefers the vote here in Parliament to prevent a popular survey in Carinthia, because Article 23d of the Federal Constitution – and it entered into force with the accession of Austria to the European Union – states in paragraph 1: ‘The Federal Government shall immediately inform the countries of any project within the framework of the European Union which affects the independent sphere of activity of the countries or may otherwise be of interest to them and give them an opportunity to comment.’ You are now experiencing this very opinion, as the EU reform treaty intervenes in the independent sphere of action of the countries, it would be necessary for us to conduct this popular survey in Carinthia. And by interviewing people in the sense of saying: If you are in favour of a positive opinion from the state government on the EU reform treaty, then vote in favour of a yes, and if you are against it, then vote in favour of a No!, there is a statement from the federal state. But that's exactly what you're talking about now! As a summary of this debate today, I can only say one thing, dear representatives of the coalition parties and the Greens: All parties want the votes of the citizens, the politicians, the parliamentarians, but once the citizens need the votes of the politicians and the parties, then they are shamefully abandoned!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15927	Ladies and gentlemen, the division of the speaking time of the last two rounds is likely to have made a greater error of calculation, because the Federal Minister is now no longer in the television era. In the future, we will ensure that this is not the case. Nevertheless, she is now speaking. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Deputies Dolinschek no longer! I'll hold it! You should have a technical device...!]] – Mr Klubobmann, we will put a calculator here. Thank you. Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15958	Madam President. High house! As a member of the former European Constitutional Convention, together with colleagues from this House and the European Parliament, I have been able to cooperate in the preparation of the original Constitutional Treaty, and I am particularly pleased that we now have the reform Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon, in the wake of this Treaty and that this Parliament is also contributing to the long-term overdue reform in the European Union as planned by 1. January next year will be able to enter into force. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As today's Minister of Justice, I would particularly like to stress three aspects. On the one hand, this is the enormous appreciation experienced by police and judicial cooperation in Europe through this Treaty. Secondly – and this has been stressed with great pleasure –: We will create a legal area with the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the EU, which has the world's most modern catalogue of fundamental rights, and I would like to stress this in particular, by shattering the procedures, by shattering the Union's instruments of action, we will develop a much more transparent, much simpler decision-making practice at the level of the European Union. On judicial and police cooperation: European opinion polls show us that European citizens expect real added value, especially in the areas of freedom, security and justice, from the European Union, to expect special progress in these areas. The fact is that, according to the current legal situation of the European Union, the area of freedom, security and justice is more like a flowering place than a third pillar in the current structure of the Union has only a subordinate meaning which is no longer in line with the reality and practice of the internal market. The Single Market is a success project, cross-border products are exchanged and purchased, cross-border services are provided. This, of course, is also, to an ever greater extent, leading to entrepreneurs and consumers wanting to rely on them to be in a legally secure situation, that they also know which court will be responsible in the event of an emergency. The internal market is also lived by people, it is increasingly married, divorced, dead, inherited. This means that we also need the appropriate legal framework here in order to take account of this development and the citizens' expectations. And for the first time now, we are getting these conditions with this agreement. For the first time, the joint bodies that we have set up in this area, such as EUROPOL, EUROJUST, will also be provided for by enabling further development towards the European Public Prosecutor's Office in this Treaty, This is particularly important for a medium-sized country, such as Austria, that we have additional support here through these joint institutions. In the field of judicial and police cooperation, there will be the greatest democratisation boost. This area is particularly sensitive to fundamental rights, where the European Parliament's co-decision rights have so far been particularly restricted. This will now be lifted, we will have co-decision rights in these areas in the future, equal rights between the Council and the European Parliament, and we will also have full jurisdiction here of the European Court of Justice. However, I also became clear when I followed the demonstrations in Austria that not all have great joy with the fact that the arm of justice is getting longer and stronger. I remember seeing transparents in demonstrations where freedom for honey was required. You all know that Mr Honsik was able to return to law enforcement in Austria by means of the European Arrest Warrant. This makes it clear that not everyone is happy when justice is well-connected across Europe and there is good cooperation in the field of justice. I would like to say to the catalogue of fundamental rights – some speakers have already made a very detailed statement on this – that we also have modernisation with regard to classical fundamental rights. In so far as it is actually the most modern catalogue of fundamental rights, it is also in the area of traditional fundamental and freedom rights. For example, the explicit prohibition of reproductive cloning is contained in it or, as a new State of discrimination, the prohibition of discrimination due to genetic characteristics. We have additional social rights, which has already been stressed. The claim that there would be an abolition of collective contractual instruments can easily be rebutted by looking at the Charter of Fundamental Rights. It is also expressly stated that the right to strike is something which is not contained in the Austrian fundamental law and is indeed a progress. Or: In the case of judicial rights, there are classic rights, such as the right to an effective appeal and the right to obtain his own case before an impartial court. But, for example, the right to legal aid is also introduced. That is also something that represents actual progress. A short while to simplify procedures: So far, at the level of the European Union, we have had 15 different forms of decision-making: the Regulation, the Directive, the Framework Directive, the Framework Decision, the Convention et cetera. This is radically simplified, reduced to five basic types. The procedure by which these instruments are drawn up is also greatly simplified. We only have a proper legislative procedure – that is the procedure in which the Council and the European Parliament decide jointly and equally – and a special procedure where either the European Parliament has a priority role or the European Council or the Council of Ministers has a priority role. Furthermore, in practice we will have very central simplifications in the so-called comitology. A criticism of the Union has always been that, under the legislation, there has been a wild growth of technical regulations which have been removed from any democratic control, both of the national parliaments and of the European Parliament. These comitology rules are now, as it were, in a rule of law. a new regulation, and in particular an equal role of the European Parliament with that of the Council. This Treaty brings more rule of law, it brings more democracy, it brings more rights to European citizens. That is why we can only say to this treaty out of full conviction and with full heart. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16040	Next, Mr Dr. Niederweiser. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16061	Madam President. Estimated members on the government bank! High house! I thank all those who are still here without cameras and follow the discussion. Three points that have not yet been said: The first point: I think this is a great day for this Parliament, not because this Treaty is something very special, but because it is certainly not easy in the face of a movement that, over weeks and months, has been shocked by the largest newspaper in the country, by the “Kronen Zeitung”, against this Treaty – I cannot say otherwise – yet to produce and say that we decide that, that is our task, they can write something so often. I think that's both right and good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second: Parliamentary treatment was very detailed. I should like to quote Mr Aspock, who said in committee: The procedure of treatment was excellent. Everything has been discussed in detail. There is no more serious way to deal with this in Parliament. What we have actually missed – and that is also said – is to carry out even more or more information. I guess that's true. An employee has today looked at what has been information in the field of adult education on the Lisbon Treaty in the last two months. He then told me: Although there was much about EURO 2008, preparation, language courses and so on, there is nothing to be found in the Lisbon Treaty. It's got to change. That really has to change. I believe that this is a permanent task that we have to inform about Europe. Things are here in a constant river, and our all task is to inform accordingly. I therefore propose a motion for a resolution by Mr Cap, Mr Schüssel, Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek. It is distributed, so I can only mention a few essential points: The government is invited to step up its efforts to ensure that, first of all, these Treaties are available free of charge to all European citizens – the Austrian Federal Government is doing so – and to provide more information on the activities of the European Union and the European institutions and to enter into a wide-ranging dialogue; to continue to anchor an EU-wide referendum. There are still a number of other important points that should also show that we are very serious about people's concerns, but that we are also prepared and obliged to carry out our duties as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16118	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is set out in its main points. Due to its scope, I leave it according to § 53 para. 4 bringing about the distribution of the GoG; he is also in the course of the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16242	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16263	Madam President, Ladies Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today we have the issue of EU reform treaty on the agenda. Much has already been discussed in recent hours, and many important arguments for this reform treaty have been presented here today. I can only repeat them all the way: More democracy, greater involvement of the European Parliament, as well as national parliaments are points provided for in this reform Treaty. Furthermore, the election of the President of the Commission, the possibility of a vote of distrust for the Commission, something which, I believe, really means strengthening the co-determination of the European Parliament. Another point is, and this has already been stressed: In a larger European Union, it is important that the organisation should also reflect on the current state of play; we need a more efficient and slimmer organisation to deal with European concerns. Finally, however, this reform Treaty also provides for a strengthening of civil rights – the Charter of Fundamental Rights is just mentioned here – the possibility of holding Europe-wide referendums. But if you, ladies and gentlemen of BZÖ and FPÖ, do not convince all these arguments, I hope you can at least convince the argument of increased security through this EU reform treaty. The Minister for Justice has already raised a number of points where the reform treaty will make quite specific improvements: in judicial cooperation in criminal matters, for example. It has been true so far that the question of justice, police cooperation in the third pillar, has been treated differently from many other concerns. This will no longer be the case in the future. It will be precisely this issue of a common area of freedom, security in codecision procedures, in the ordinary legislative procedure, so to speak, of the European Union with ==References== This will also involve the European Parliament in this area, but also the national parliaments will have the possibility of greater participation. I think we can only be interested in that. We all know – and if you don't close your eyes, you can understand it almost daily – that crime has become international, that criminal organizations are working across borders. And believing that a country could better respond to these challenges in isolation is simply a mistake. In this area of security, we can only find common answers in Europe, develop common answers in the area of cooperation in criminal justice, but also in the area of police cooperation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is a priority in this reform treaty: It will be possible in the future for police cooperation to be deepened in Europe and for Europol to become an instrument that will support and also coordinate the cooperation of police authorities in the various countries of Europe, but, in order to address this objection equally, of course, no forced action will be taken in each Member State. This is still the task of the national police and judicial authorities. There will also be new control instruments for Europol. So here too, citizens' rights are at least strengthened. I believe that the judicial cooperation provided for in the Reform Treaty in the area of criminal justice, which has not yet been established, in particular in the area of counter-terrorism, particularly in the important areas of trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation of women and children – issues which we have also devoted very much to in recent months – will take a big step forward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Overall, I believe, the reform treaty will facilitate, improve cooperation and thus fight international crime more effectively. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and BZÖ, you should not conclude this reform treaty and give it your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16323	Next, Mrs. Dr. Moser will speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16345	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1994 – I think it was November – we had the vote here in the House on accession to the European Union. At the time, I was one of the few who voted against and who were very critical of Austria's accession to the EU. Today, 14 years later, I am going to say a critical yes to this Lisbon reform treaty, remembering very well that my concerns of the day still apply today. What concerns were there? – There were political concerns about democracy. We have here through the Treaty of Lisbon, which I must admit, some remarkable improvements. There were concerns at the time that there were no fundamental rights. Now fundamental rights are being established. Just, ladies and gentlemen: We believe that these fundamental rights are too little, from a green perspective. There is too little social content in the basic data. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. That is why we were so concerned that, in the joint motion for a resolution, we also reflected the development of the Charter of Fundamental Rights that we, as Austrian parliamentarians, commit ourselves to continuing to work in all areas in order to ensure optimum protection of fundamental rights and to develop this essential legal catalogue. At the time, my no to the EU was also a signal that nuclear policy, the EU's energy policy is wrong. Unfortunately, she is still today. We are still a member of the Euratom Treaty, and we still have little opportunity within the EU to change this energy policy course and to veto against nuclear development, says Fast Bruter. The jure is available, practically it is not perceived. At that time it was a reason to be opposed, today it is still partly justified as criticism from the left critical side. At the time, my attitude was also a signal that the transit agreement, which Austria negotiated in the face of accession, was miserable and will be removed without replacement. It's been like that! It has been confirmed that the ecopoint regulation was bad, the number of journeys has increased, and today we are really facing a disaster in transit and transport policy, but not only in Tyrol, but also in the vicinity of Vienna, also in the area where East-West transport is to a large extent. The EU has guided transport policy in the wrong direction. With the Road Costs Directive, we still do not have the consideration of external costs. There must be significant changes here. Now I come to the Austrian homework that my previous speaker has mentioned. At EU level, this Federal Government needs to rethink and rethink in different areas. And since I am dealing with transport policy more closely here, I would like to stress once again: There has been no Austrian initiative under the Slovenian Presidency to finally put the improvement of the Road Costs Directive on the agenda. There has been no Austrian initiative to install a transit stock exchange, as an opportunity to reduce truck rides and make them more environmentally friendly, in order to give the population a hope for less noise, less exhaust gases, more climate protection, more environmental protection and more fundamental rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We must continue to work on this, and my yes today is an incentive for this further development, for this development of the European Union towards the social and, above all, towards the environmental union. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16399	Mr Aspock is now speaking. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16420	Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! High house! It's a shame Mr. Molterer isn't here now. You just have to represent things a little different, and then it sounds awful. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: We will do it to him!]] – I hope, Mr President! – Vice Chancellor Molterer said: Yes, Mr Strache, do you want to accuse the people of not knowing what they are voting on in 1994? That was never our opinion. We reject something else, your predecessors and partly you yourself in politics: They were the ones who did not know the population so well at the time. No Austrian knew that the transitoryness of our Republic will only exist on time, so it was precipitated. No one has said that transitoryness is only valid for some time. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is exactly in the contract, how long it takes!]] Yes, in the Treaty it has been said, the population has not been said, Mr Colleague. – I would like to give you another example: In a discussion it was said, namely, by one of the professors, Öhlinger, I think it was that in the Maastricht Treaty the Battlegroup is already inside. I can remember that in 1994, when the major coalition politicians voted in favour of an agreement to the EU Treaty, they always said that neutrality must be maintained and that it will in all cases be maintained. Today, this is only an academic dispute to what extent it will be preserved. First of all, there were the first restrictions; fully d’accord with us, yes: UN mandate. But there is already the other mandate, now our soldiers are in Chad, and they are not there within the framework of the UN mandate. At the end of the line, only more remains: Then, if there are two distant republics somewhere, we'll be neutral. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this treaty is much too beautiful. In fact, this treaty is not the great social step; I believe that the SPÖ is difficult to deceive. In fact, it is an extremely liberal contract, over which only big capital, large enterprises and the like are delighted. This agreement has nothing to do with the citizens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have therefore tabled another request, which, I believe, the President has made. He's very short. It is the request to refer the Government template 417 of the Supplements and the Reform Treaty, 484 of the Supplements, back to the Constitutional Committee for further advice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16486	Mr Aspöck, this request does not need to be made orally and has been dealt with. The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16511	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard many opinions about the EU reform treaty in the course of the morning, not content, but opinions. As these speeches are something like an outing, I also say that I voted and voted in favour of EU accession at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] It was, of course, sound, reasonable from the point of view of the economy, as we can understand in many ways today. If Mrs Moser says that she will vote with a critical yes today, I can contrast that I say a constructive no to this reform treaty. I believe that the individual statements of words have shown quite well where the differences between those who reject this reform treaty, FPÖ and BZÖ, are there already reasons for content... – I can already explain this to you, Mr colleague. [[Abg. Oillinger: Tell us a little bit about it!]] We have approved many things in the EU reform treaty. We have not joined this campaign, as the FPÖ, for example, has done. We never talked about a death penalty. We have never had an EU exit. These are all nonsenses that one cannot join. We have said, however, that we want the people to be involved. That was our reason for putting this initiative into place in Carinthia. After all, 15 000 Carinthias have been moved to the local office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] – This is not ridiculous, Mr Murauer! This is linked to very many circumstances. It is a difference whether I hold my signature in an inn on the counter or whether I go to the parish office, provide the passport and make a signature. This is a significant difference. It is therefore necessary to take this seriously when 15 000 citizens take this step. We said that the Federal Government had the task and the opportunity to convince the people of this European Union. That's also the criticism I'm making. We have now had this opportunity with this EU reform treaty, but this issue has moved very, very many people in the country: Over 100,000 have signed, many have gone to the streets to demonstrate. That is, there was something moving for the first time. After all, we have been left out with many EU issues in the population; it was not accessible to the EU issues, that must be said. We here in Parliament have always discussed EU needs and EU issues, but the population has always resorted to Brussels, and we have seen too little and taken it seriously that we are drawing closer to the population of this Brussels, bringing it closer to this EU. That's where we have to take something to the nose and ask ourselves: Why have we failed in recent years to make the EU a little more comprehensible to people? I could not understand that, in recent weeks and months, the Federal Government has taken this crucial step to start a proper education campaign to convince people that it is important to believe in this common Europe. For me, therefore, this nervousness of the last days has been incomprehensible, where you have posted ads in the short term and referred to a homepage and then published a brochure in the last days to give them to the people for reading. It is really incomprehensible to me that we have not started to advertise for this common Europe in good time. We have taken a right step in Carinthia: We have said that we do not want to give up the voices of people, but to involve them and take them along the way to Europe, to Brussels with a critical consideration of the work of recent years, and we also want to listen to their concerns and their needs and their arguments. We miss that from this federal government, and therefore there is also a constructive no by me today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16562	Next, Mr Marizzi. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16584	Madam President. My very esteemed State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, this was certainly an interesting discussion today, and the people on TV screens and the visitors to the gallery will have been thinking, despite the controversial discussion of how Parliament or how politics behaves in general. Mr Aspöck! What you have claimed here with regard to neutrality is simply and decisively wrong. – It is in the Treaty that the neutrality of Austria remains! If you make the effort and take the “Kronen Zeitung” from Saturday to hand and the long letter of readers – I can only give it a short copy now because I have only three minutes of speech – read by the President of the Federal Republic of Finland Fischer, in which he clearly says: no NATO accession, no stationing of foreign troops in Austria, no participation in wars, Article 28 and also that the freedom of alliance of Finland and Sweden is not affected, then you know that for the neutrals with this Treaty, there is even an improvement. The second point – something that is also worrying, namely, on the side of the BZÖ – is: We have had four meetings, Mr Scheibner, of the Constitutional Committee, but you refused the discussion there. You would have had the chance to put all the arguments in there, but you didn't. The Reform Treaty, Mr Scheibner, is designed to regulate the co-existence of 500 million citizens with 27 Member States. And the EU-27 – you can come to the speaker’s desk afterwards – is the largest and strongest economy in the world. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why didn't you wait two more months?]] And we Austrians are among the best in economic terms, and we are proud of that! – We do not always address your negative arguments, this should be said here today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And one more, Mr Scheibner: there was a constitutional change in 1995. You should only have watched the show on Sunday evening with Professor Mayer and the discussion of the club members. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I was there even!]] Professor Mayer said quite clearly: Yes, referendum in EU accession. And even in 2005, a referendum would have been necessary – there was Mr. Westenthaler in the government; yes, but your party was in the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] There has nevertheless been voted here. – And Mr Mayer said as a constitutional lawyer that no referendum is necessary in 2008. I respect the demonstrations, I also respect the demonstrators, I also respect other opinions. But when opinions are expressed like, for example, the water is sold out, the neutrality is at the end, there are no collective agreements in the future – that is simply and completely wrong, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is Erich Haider in Upper Austria!]] We are not EU chaots, but we are supporters of the European Union, because we believe that Austria is a significant part of this European Union, and we are proud of that! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] And what we are still proud of, ladies and gentlemen, has been said by the government bank more often today and also here at this speaker's desk: There has been no war on this continent for nearly six decades. And if this dream arises – where 50 million people in the Second World War and, I do not know now, perhaps 25 million in the First World War had to live – then it is one of the most important points to prove that this EU and this reform treaty have their right! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16696	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16718	Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Why are we saying about this treaty? - Because the comparison makes us safe. The Union is now an important stability factor in this world, although not an island of the Blessed, but a continent in which there is peace in which the environment is largely intact, whose economic and social levels are comparatively good, whose basic democratic order is guaranteed and whose social market economy is all in all superior to all other economic systems. A look over the edge of Europe is enough to see that it is not everywhere. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, there is no reasonable alternative to this European peace and social project. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Some resentments and prejudices that, for example in the course of the popular election campaign, came against Europe, come – unfortunately, I say – also under the cover of patriotism. Today we see it on these slogans. “We patriots against the EU chaots”, it was in Carinthia on all posters, I hear, and unfortunately today also here in this hall on many tablets. But in truth, this is an insatiable, an anti-European, but also an unpatriotic slogan, ladies and gentlemen, because it is quite contrary to the interests of Austria: Austria wants to present itself as a world-wide country, which also wants to accommodate and accommodate many visitors and holidaymakers here, especially in view of the upcoming European Football Championship. I'll hold on to this. Especially a self-confident Austria can explain with conviction why it is patriotic and forward-looking to think Austrian and European, and why it is unpatriotic and backward to denotify the European Union as chaotic and is due to Austria in a Quasiegoistic self-relation and in an antique and false chauvinism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Helmut Kohl, the great European statesman, is right: Recent European history has shown that the true realists are the idealists in Europe, those who have never given up the idea of Europe after the war and centuries of enemies and in so sad circumstances, such as the Cold War and the East-West confrontation, who never gave up, believed in an agreement of Europe and at the crucial moment always made the right and the necessary. With the ratification of this reform treaty, one of these important moments has come for Europe, and Austria would not agree with it, because in many areas we need not less, but more Europe in order to cope with the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16773	Next, Mrs Mag. Weinzinger to speak. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16796	Madam President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! High house! What the critics and critics of this Treaty have made clear in recent weeks with their various protests, I believe, undoubtedly once again, is that the EU is suffering from a problem of credibility, in which – footnote – our Austrian Federal Government is always actively involved. The accusations raised are often directly opposed to what is promoted on the part of the EU advocates: The EU and its supporters claim that subsidiarity would be a very important approach. – The critics say that the EU is acting completely removed. On the part of the EU supporters, it is said that it is a project of peace, a truly important peace project for the future. – The criticism focuses on militarization. As a supporter, we call for social Europe even more. – Critics are looting Europe’s profit-driven development. And so on. I think that what we have to take seriously is not some of the more than haircut arguments that come, but this credibility problem that the EU is suffering over and over again and that we should deal with together if this reform treaty is to have an opportunity to bring more people to Europe and to implement it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to an up-to-date example of how such a thing could look. We have in this Treaty of Lisbon, in Article 1 lit. a, the fundamental commitment to the inviolable and inalienable rights of people; thus, one of the fundamental foundations of the EU is the commitment to human rights. In the same Treaty, in Article 9a, we have a clear commitment to a common foreign policy, which I believe is based on the basic values of the EU, i.e. an active commitment to human rights. These are two important pillars in the reform treaty. And I think we can't just run business as usual now. We cannot call critically to the test in precisely the times when the reform treaty is being discussed in all the countries of Europe: He's not yet valid, so we're doing business as usual! The EU's half-yearly human rights dialogue with China is imminent in May. Business as usual is simply not possible for two reasons there, we believe: Firstly, because we cannot promote a common foreign policy on the one hand and then they will not even try to do so on the next possible occasion, but send all their representatives to it, and that was it. The EU is called on to formulate and represent common foreign policy, particularly in a difficult matter. Second, why Business as usual is absolutely unthinkable: The situation is anything but business as usual. We now have daily protests against the Olympic torch rally across Europe and America. Over the last few weeks, there have become known as hairthrowing scenes in Tibet, where violence and outpouring have even occurred on both sides that are urgently in need of investigation. Amnesty International is now calling for the most urgent actions because it is feared that in the course of Tibetan protests prisoners will be tortured victims in prisons, the situation is anything but human rights. Foreign journalists continue to have no access to the entire Tibetan territory. And all of this in the run-up to the Olympic Games, which have the motto of “Celebrate Humanity”. What about the EU? Should the EU remain silent in such a situation? Is that what you want? Or is not the EU's reform project called for with a common foreign policy that is committed to human rights? I therefore make the following request – I have already given you the reasons and therefore I would like to read only the application text itself –: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] That would be the request I would like to ask you to support. One word at the end: President Prammer has already told me in advance that she at least did not intend to allow this request, because there was no link to the subject matter of the negotiation. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't want to believe that!]] - I can't believe that. I hope that, in the discussions with Parliament's Directorate, Madam President Prammer has now taken the view that there is an unmistakable link between the decision on basic values in the reform Treaty and its implementation in the near future. If that's not a context, I don't know! I have also heard an argument that there can be no link between content, because the Lisbon Treaty has not yet been ratified. But then, Madam President, the approval of the motion for a resolution, Cap, Schüssel, Glavischnig, ladies and gentlemen, would not have been allowed. I therefore assume that this was a correct decision regarding a Treaty which has not yet been ratified on future actions on this Treaty, and therefore the same applies to our motion for a resolution. I believe that this is simply an important question of the principle of democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We cannot, even in the event of a restrictive interpretation of the motions for resolutions, go beyond clearly existing admissities in the Rules of Procedure and take a political decision which is acceptable and which is not. I believe that the Austrian Parliament did not deserve to cut down the democratic rights of mandaters on the very day when the EU Treaty is to be ratified with its democratization. That would be totally contrary to what we always claim here. And no one can be interested in suspending the accusation that the long touch of the Chinese Embassy would have influenced a decision on the authorisation or non-admission of an application. In this sense, I hope that the request will be approved and will be approved in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16890	Mrs Mag. Weinzinger, you have already pointed out that it is not for me to judge a serious situation here in Tibet or elsewhere in the world. I have a lot of sympathy for this request in substance, but I have to examine the facts of how we should proceed in the framework of the Rules of Procedure as regards the approval or non-approval of applications. They have all followed in the Chamber during the last sittings, including debates on the Rules of Procedure, on closer or further interpretations of the context of the motions for resolutions. This debate has also led to a sufficiently long and intensive discussion in the last presidential term, but it has not found an agreement on it and has not been able to establish a common position on how the members of the Bureau see a closer or further interpretation of such resolutions, which is why the Bureau of the National Council agreed to bring together the members of the Bureau of the Council of Presidents and thus the members of the National Council for the next few weeks with a view to approving such motions for resolutions. [[Abg. Brosz: This is a prejudice if you don't allow it now!]] I myself have represented a very close interpretation and interpretation in my assessments, and I have been exposed to this House's criticism several times. If I did not follow this principle, I would actually leave my own line, which is why I cannot accept this request either. It is also important to point out the legal situation. I do not just refer to § 55 para. 1, but also to the comment on § 27, second note, where expressly stated: ‘By including the words ‘contental context’ instead of the words ‘in combination’ – that was the case when the Rules of Procedure were amended – the legislator stated that a mere loose link with the subject matter of the TOC was not sufficient as a condition for the position of a committee application.’ In addition, the second comment by Czerny/Fischer also points to a close interpretation, in order to avoid, so to speak, the possibility of consulting the Committee. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a 27-person request! There's something else about this!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This has nothing to do with resolutions!]] I have studied the proposal very thoroughly. It also refers, of course, to the European Union, just as all these motions for resolutions, including those which were not approved, were always in a certain context to the subject matter, to the relevant legislative matter under discussion. However, the content of this motion for a resolution largely concerns Austrian foreign policy. In my opinion, there is another argument: I was contacted in advance by the two government groups. The two government groups also wanted to make an independent request. I asked both to make an independent request in order not to have to have a major discussion on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I think there are many instruments available here in the House: There is the EU Main Committee, the EU Subcommittee, the Human Rights Committee, the External Policy Committee. I would like to invite everyone to discuss these bodies as quickly as possible in order to take account of what Mr Weinzinger said in terms of content, which I can fully follow. That is why I do not allow this motion for a resolution. Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16959	Madam President. With respect, but I think this decision is wrong and cannot accept it. If an application for a European foreign policy is rejected, in which Austria – I believe – is involved within the framework of the European Union, and we are dealing with an item on the agenda that concerns only EU policies, I do not know where to put another item on the agenda to put a motion for a resolution on Austrian and EU holding on Chinese policy in Tibet. I believe that this decision is absolutely arbitrary. I would also like to point out that, of course, the Cap, Schüssel and Glavischnig-Piesczek request contains a number of points which are not directly related to any section of the State Treaty to be adopted today, but to future EU policy. within the framework of this Treaty, which shall be concluded or not. At least half of these points are not directly related to the State Treaty, but it is also in order to allow this application. Today, we are talking about Austrian policy within the framework of the European Union, and nothing else is involved in the Weinzinger proposal. I request a debate on my speech according to § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17010	Mr Scheibner, Member of the European Parliament, on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17032	Madam President. I agree with these objections to your decision and I also request that you accept this request and according to § 59 para. 3 to hold a debate. In view of the catastrophic conditions in Tibet, where people are killed only because they are in favour of freedom of their own people and human rights, I thought it really blamable if, in a two-day debate, the Austrian National Council does not only have its own agenda item, but if a request that is made to put at least a symbolic act of protest is not even allowed to debate and vote. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a scandal! A huge scandal!]] I do not need to say what kind of picture it means to the Austrian Parliament outside. However, I can give up on the applause of the Chinese Embassy in this case. Madam President, you should not be so sure, because if you now use § 27 as an argument for your decision, then I must stop that this is something quite different. § 27 deals with independent applications in the Committee. It is clear that a stricter scale should be established. This is about legislative decisions and not a resolution, as is the case today. I should like to point out that there has been a context of content in an initiative against comat drinking. In the context of a discussion of the Market Regulation Act, in which, among other things, the Wine Law has been treated, we have considered a legal link in a legislative matter to be correct. In today's debate, on the other hand, where there is a mandate and we are dealing with six agenda items that concern EU policy, where Austrian government representatives in the European Union are voting for boycott measures, I cannot understand at all that there is no link to this in a resolution. I must also protest at the sharpest in this regard, which means that for the reputation of the House, and seek to reconsider this decision or according to § 59 para. 3 to allow a debate on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17072	Before I give the floor to Mr Dr. Stummfully, I would like to draw your attention to the following, Mr Scheibner: You may not have read the note 6 to § 55. [[Abg. Scheibner: You said “27”!]] - Yes. There the context is clearly explained again by reference to § 27. Unfortunately, it is. Please, Mr Dr. Stummvoll.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17106	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have recently – and especially in the BZÖ application – opted for a rather strict and rigid interpretation and not for a vague, loose interpretation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I think if you've made this decision, you should keep a line. We can't even make that decision, once and for all, more stringent and even less strict. This line is to be kept, all the more so than the arguments of Mr Scheibner – you have just said – are not intended, therefore, because it is clearly stated in the Commentary on § 55 of the Rules of Procedure in Note 6: ‘Note of the expression ‘contental context’, see Section 27 of Section 2’ – That is, what stands for § 27 is also to be applied for the context in Section 55. Then it goes on to say: The content context ‘decides, not the National Council, but the President’. Madam President, I should like to thank you for your We've heard your position. Our opinion is covered by this position. The decision is yours, but we support you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17144	Next, Mr Klubobmann spoke to Dr. Cap for business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17165	First of all, I would like to expressly say that we must strictly separate the content of the motion and the content of this debate on the Rules of Procedure. The content is consistent. There I see no difference between our positions and the position of the Greens. But it was no one of you except a representative when we discussed this problem for a long time in the last presidential period and found out about the conclusions that the President had just made. I would not say that the interpretation is strict or not strict. It is simply and simply as stated in the Rules of Procedure. There is, I think, no alternative to the conclusions expressed by the President earlier. That is why we support the decision of the President.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17198	I interrupt the meeting and seek the club members to come to me for a short standing position. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A request has been made, Madam President.]] – I can still interrupt the meeting at any time, Mr Klubobmann. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17235	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. After a short stand-alone debate on the issue of the admission and non-admission of self-employed motions for resolutions, we have not taken a step further – the question remains open – but as an offer – also to the good, I do not want to have any greater discrepancies there – and also with the strong desire and great desire to talk about this subject again in the forthcoming President, I will make the request, Mrs Mag. Weinzinger, let go. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17332	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen speaks again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17354	Thank you, Madam President, for your welcome, which is in your power competence. I then withdraw my request for debate according to § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17375	The next item is a further speech on business management, by Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17396	Madam President. Reason has won over the laws. I too, of course, withdraw my request for debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17418	Thank you. It is also good to hear that the papers were still addressed. We continue with this in the debate... – No, pardon, I have still overlooked Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17442	I was covered up by Klubobmann Cap. – I thank you for understanding that we are not Debates of the European Parliament To be honest, I think it would be wiser – before we deal with an application to Tibet now and may be rejected because it contains some formulations that are not ready for decision at the moment – that we may perhaps make a joint independent request. Klubobmann Cap and I have now agreed, and we also offer the opposition to work out a text together. Before the end of the meeting, consider whether it would not be a way of withdrawing your request today and developing a common Tibet line in the form of an independent application in the next few weeks. I think that's better. I think it would be wiser to choose such a common procedure instead of a rejection today and perhaps a false signal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17483	Mr Klubobmann, that was no real contribution to the Rules of Procedure. We are continuing in the debate. Mr Bösch is now speaking. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17511	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A brief word on the debate on the adoption of resolutions: Madam President, from the liberties it is not so important whether you are now taking a strict or rather loose stance on the issue of the adoption of motions for resolutions. Rather, I think it should be our concern that you start to show a transparent and above all the same handling here during the meetings. Unfortunately, there are some precedents of requests from the government parties which have been approved here, but whose internal connection with the debated item was very questionable. Now back to the Constitutional Treaty: Ladies and gentlemen! The question of freedom of movement is about a referendum. Some colleagues have already pointed out that in the Constitutional Committee, experts from the government parties have stated that it is not imperative, in their view, to hold a referendum. From the FPÖ there have been experts who have explained that a referendum is necessary because it is an overall change of the Austrian federal constitution. In principle, we note that it is not only a scientific decision whether a referendum is being held on this important treaty but also a political decision. And we have repeatedly asked you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, to make this political decision. This policy decision seems to be important to us, because it also achieves the goal you are always talking about, namely the information of the population on this so difficult matter. Only writing a referendum guarantees that the arguments for and against this Treaty will be debated within the Austrian public for several weeks or over a longer period of time. If you look at the opinions of the last few days regarding the level of information of the Austrian population on the content of the Constitutional Treaty, you must note that this level of information is very low It's! In view of this, it would be your task as a government party to make this referendum possible to resolve this information deficit and to tell the people what this Constitutional Treaty actually refers to. Strangely, you have rejected this so far, but you have voted in favour of a request for a referendum in the House, which may be at the door in a few years. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! That was also a political decision, a right decision! We liberals have also agreed. The reform Treaty, which is being adopted here today, is a matter of concealment in many things. He is, as some colleagues have mentioned, a mogel pack, because many things are not mentioned in the text of the Treaty, but are meant and mentioned in some notes and additional protocols. These include, for example, the priority of EU law: The priority of EU law, which – you are right! – was already an element of our accession in 1995, this reform treaty brings to the fore once again, but not in the text of the Treaty, but rather in hiding and hiding in a note. And what this priority of EU law really means, we have had to experience in recent months with regard to decisions at European level regarding the access to universities of European citizens, with regard to the mandatory authorisation of genetically modified foods, with regard to nuclear power in our neighbourhood, but also with regard to the automatic abolition of the Beneš and AVNOJ decrees, which still do not respect human rights in Member States of the European Union. That's what it's all about! It is also about the practical policy of the European Union, and it is about determining and assessing how these constitutional elements are fulfilled with life. And the life that has been breathed into these points by the European level in recent months has not been acceptable to the Republic of Austria! That is why, as representatives of the people and national councils, we have the obligation to take action to ensure that there is a referendum on this Constitutional and Reform Treaty.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17566	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speech. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17587	Madam President. Estimated members on the government bank! Mr Graf said today in an interlocutory call: What do we need this agreement for? – Austria joined the European Union in 1995, with two thirds of the Austrian population in favour of accession to the referendum. Since 1995 to 2008, the Union has grown from 15 to 27 Member States. That is to say, there is a need for a different basis of action for 27 Member States today than at the time for 15. It wasn't easy at the age of 15. The agreement with the 15 was also not 100% correct in the sense of what people wanted from Austria. That is why this reform Treaty is now in place. This reform treaty should – we all expect – enable the 27 Member States of the European Union to face the globalisation of the economy together and to meet this challenge together. To believe that a country alone can cope with this globalisation is an illusion! In the period 1995 to 2008, there were very rapid changes. Everything has changed very rapidly for companies as well as for workers. The basis of work has changed dramatically. Austria has become an export country: Six out of ten euros go to EU exports. It will therefore be essential how this reform treaty will be fulfilled with life and what one can make of it. That is, we have to make every effort to get what people and economies need into this treaty. If I read in the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” that the European Commission now wants to take action against dumping wages, I mean that this is a positive giant step. – A very concrete example from my constituency: Only two years ago, when Altheim was built, a German company won the call for proposals from the Upper Austrian state government. Afterwards, it has been assumed that every employee has to work ten hours a month for the benefit of the company, according to the collective agreement. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This is wage dumping! And if the European Commission now wants to oppose this wage dumping, this is a very positive step that we need. In this sense, I am trying to see that we are working together to live up to this reform treaty and to increase social emphasis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17627	Mr Neugebauer has now come to speak. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17648	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I can quote from the comment of today's daily newspaper, which is an appeal to this House: Create It is a high-level debate which corresponds to powerful citizens and representative democracy! I have the impression that in this House today – except for a few exceptions – this right to representative democracy was quite enough, although last Sunday evening I had my doubts on the mission “In the Centre”. I was already excited. The five club managers were gathered on TV, three – in alphabetical order Cap, Glavischnig and Schüssel – have tried to bring matters into play; on the other hand, the colleagues from FPÖ and BZÖ have only been painfully remembered. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I guess you can say that!]] Mr Westenthaler was indignant about the lost schilling and has still today requested the “Zwickerbusserl” from the Federal Chancellor. Mr Westenthaler, that is not worthy of you, and that is not appropriate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Strache had to make the accusation that he had no culture of discussion, because speaking is also a matter of listening. The Lord has given us two earwashings that we listen more than to speak with one mouth. But that obviously can't happen yet! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I'm still in it now – sad! – Bonmot: In Austria's largest small-format sheet, it is also stated that this EU Treaty will make the right of strike obsolete in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Such a nonsense!]] As a trade unionist, I am anyway with my colleagues for the normative power of the Factic, but I must note that I have never heard such a nonsense at all. That writes the smallest sheet of mass in Austria! A statement by Mr Strache that, in view of the debate whether the content of the Treaty would turn the founding fathers around in the grave, I would like to oppose a statement by a man who does not come from the founding fathers, but is one of the greats of the Austrian post-war history, namely Julius Raab, known as the Federal Chamber President and Chancellor of Freedom. He has always scored the stand – I quote –: “The most important thing in the social market economy is the social dimension.” The social market economy has now become a principle! That's why I can say: Federal Chancellor Raab doesn't turn around in the grave. Rather, in my opinion, he would inflame a “virginerl ” and say: Well done it!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17716	The next speaker is Mr Pirklhuber. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17737	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! At the heart of this EU reform treaty is certainly not easy for citizens to understand. It has been debated for a long time that the reform treaty, unlike the original text of the Treaty, which is really readable, has blatant weaknesses in understanding and perceptibility. However, some points are so essential that there must be no dispute that the reform treaty represents a step forward. I now mention three, four points which are particularly important from my point of view. It is essential, of course, that the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which also provides a foundation for the work of the European institutions, which has not yet been established. The European Parliament's appreciation in some of the most vital areas, namely agriculture and food, is also crucial. Ladies and gentlemen! So far, the European Parliament has had no co-decision on the content of the agricultural policy. With this reform Treaty, the European Parliament is from 1. In January 2009, equal rights in addition to the Council, a key player in the future design of the European agricultural policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ewald Stadler.]] Mr Stadler, why is this so important? – Because almost 50 percent of the EU budget is known to go in this area. I don't have your call... [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Ewald Stadler.]] – Look at this: There are 20 farmers' federal officials and several farmers' representatives from the other groups. And also in the European Parliament, many representatives from the regions that are committed to rural areas and to agriculture and food production and have been making proposals for years but have not been taken into account accordingly. If You think this through, then you realize that for agriculture this means that at last more resources from the market order – and I very much hope, That this will also happen at European level in the future – going to rural development, towards greater environmental justice and to a non-genotechnic agriculture that Europeans want. Depending on the survey, about 80 percent of European citizens have always expressed themselves clearly for non-genotechnic food. In this example too, it is very nice to see that Europe has a chance to get even closer to its citizens. Let's look at the field of genetic engineering! Where are there international labelling schemes for food and feed on genetic engineering or genetic engineering components in food? – There is only one thing in Europe. There is no such thing in the United States. There is much to be criticised about these regulations. We have done that in detail again and again. However, it is also a success story of the European Parliament that there are strict labelling rules even in the case of feed, just to mention this example. I also call the cooperation of the rural areas in Europe, which want to remain free of genetic engineering, the alliance of the non-genotechnic regions. As you know, for example, Upper Austria, Basque Country, Wales, Scottish Highlands, regions in France, Tuscany and other regions of Italy, Polish regions and regions in the Balkans work together in a joint alliance with civil society. This is a whole new phenomenon in Europe, which shows that we are on the right track. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ewald Stadler.]] Colleagues from the FPÖ! We must strengthen these alliances politically. These alliances must also be voted within the framework of the European Parliament, and this is only possible if the European Parliament and the European institutions are strengthened and not weakened. That's quite clear! For example, how do you want to deal nationally with a global group such as Monsanto, which controls 90 percent of the genetic engineering seed? That is totally hopeless! That is totally unbelievable! And the citizens of Europe have no understanding of this either. That's why it's quite clear: The Greens are for the reform treaty. Of course, we also see the weaknesses of the EU institutions that remain. We are on the right track, but there is still much to do in the next few years, and the Greens will certainly make a very active contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17813	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17835	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! To colleagues Neugebauer, who had previously explained what old Mr Julius Raab would do now that he would inflame a Virginia. I'm just asking: Mr. Col., where would he do that? The EU has already banned smoking! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] I don't think Raab would have been so excited about it! [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: There's no smoking in heaven!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a lot today, so are fears. Mr. Col. Cap – he is not here now – said: Fears are being shaken! - I'm just wondering: What can you do? You can only start something that is present. And there are obvious fears within the Austrian population, but also within the European peoples. Take those fears seriously at last! You go up here and say, Well, we have to take responsibility! How does it look in Upper Austria? Is Mr. Landeshauptmann's deputy Erich Haider, a party colleague from you from the SPÖ, too cowardly? Do you have to sit down with him on a couch because he does not trust to take responsibility in connection with the Energie AG sales? – It is also in favour of a referendum on this EU reform treaty. Is he too coward? What does it mean to take responsibility at all? You have such a 08/15 talk: Take responsibility without any consequences. Mr. Schüssel! What is it to take responsibility? Is this like the responsibility of the managers of the large corporations that put billions in the sand and then still deal with millions? Is that your responsibility? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is a little pale! And then Mr Wittmann von der SPÖ – he is not here now – asks whether we are against redundancies protection. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, do we need an EU reform treaty on dismissal protection? Did we not have any redundancies since 1945 in Austria? I'll tell you one thing: The opposite will occur. The officials of the trade unions know that very well. On the contrary! Redundancy protection, strike law – fundamental workers' rights will be restricted in the future. Of course, this is not so concrete in the EU reform treaty, but it can also be read out. If the social systems and the pension system are to be tried, I must say: You don't think anything else from the SPÖ. Need to be before every choice You need a pensioner's letter, you also need a letter. And now you have to try the social systems. Since 1945, the Austrians have built up a proper social system through their labor. We do not need an EU reform treaty to secure anything here. On the contrary! Millions are going to Brussels, millions are leaving us. Mr Cap then seeks the peace project: No more war! I would like to ask Mr Cap: Never again war in Europe! But we're sending our soldiers to Chad? What is this view, ladies and gentlemen? They'll send soldiers to all the crisis spots in the future. I can't hear these 08/15 sentences anymore. We from FPÖ have always voted in favour of a Europe of the father countries, we have voted in favour of a European Community, for a European Economic Community, of course also for transnational cooperation. And there is also this in Europe. You do not need an EU reform contract. Mr Schüssel said: That's a miracle what's happening here! – Mr. Schüssel, you know what a miracle is? A miracle is rationally unexplainable. Because of the fact that this EU reform treaty is rationally unexplainable, you do not want the people to vote on it either. If all this is so great when people have to jump up to enthusiasm, why don't you let the citizens vote on it? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I wonder. Go inside, maybe go out to the country! Mr Auer is not here right now. What do the citizens in his community of Fischlham, in my neighboring community, think of the EU? Mr. Freund from the innviertel, what do the farmers think of the EU? What do they think of the EU reform treaty? What have you done about educational work? - Nothing at all! We know that very well anyway, all these are just more flattites and 08/15 sets. And you're all satisfied when you're at peace. Next, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, is: We will also measure the European Union and the Reform Treaty by what happens to human rights. There is a great deal of talk about human rights now being anchored. – Yes, please, in Austria there is the state law since 1866! Has there been no fundamental rights at the time? Do we need the EU reform treaty? - Please don't! And you all know that very well when you know the European Convention on Human Rights. But we will look at this very carefully, Mr. Schüssel. We will take a very close look at this in the field of displaced people. I asked you at the last meeting of the Constitutional Committee if you seriously intend to eliminate the Beneš decrees and the AVNOJ provisions. That's what we're going to measure you. Until now, nothing has happened in this area from your side. You didn't bring anything together! It's just a foam shop that you operate here. We are for a Europe of the father countries, but not for such an EU reform treaty.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17889	Mrs Ablinger has now come to speak. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17911	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Haimbuchner, the crucial point is the following: They ask what we need the Charter of Fundamental Rights, we have the Convention on Human Rights in the constitutional order anyway. That's right! But we must also note what we Europeans want, that this Charter of Fundamental Rights applies to everyone else. This is the basic principle of European thought – not only to see the small hut, but to see what we need for the house of Europe. Since it is also said that this treaty is being whipped through. – This can only be said if one does not want to note that there have been difficult, years of negotiations, or if one does not want to note that there have been intensive discussions and discussions in the Constitutional Committee for several days, and in which the BZÖ has not participated. It did not prevail on a question on the agenda for the plenary session and therefore immediately refused the discourse. Overall, the major tenor in the joint debate was why this reform treaty is so essential that it strengthens national parliaments as well as European Parliaments in subsidiarity control and thereby strengthens the democratic principle. It has been established that the rule of law is strengthened because the ECJ is now responsible for more areas. – I’ve already responded to fundamental rights. It is also about – and this cannot be overlooked, and this is true of Europe as a whole and not only of its own kind – that citizens' rights are strengthened with an initiative of European citizens' rights. There is the European Union. ombudsmen to whom everyone and everyone can contact if they have complaints about abuses in European institutions. In this respect, it is necessary to say clearly: If one rejects this Treaty, it also means that one rejects, as it were, increased control by national parliaments, the expansion of the ability of the European institutions to act and the social cross-cutting clause. That's what you have to say. The alternative would be to get out of the EU or keep the status quo. Both would be a bad variant. Or they say we want a better contract. But you have to say, honestly: In the near future, this is not in sight. If the BZÖ says that there are 15 000 signatures against it, I do not want to say this in small terms, but the women's desire, for example, has signed 650 000 women and men. At that time I did not hear any voices from the BZÖ going to that one should immediately implement the women's people's desire. I therefore believe that it is essential to agree to this Treaty, but it is not the end of the discussion. We need the public, the serious discourse and not the use of bad prejudices. It must go in this direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17969	Mr Sonnberger has now come to speak. Also 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17990	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State! High house! I would like to refer to Mr Haimbuchner's comments, as he has mentioned Erich Haider several times. Yes, Erich Haider is in a certain double role: He does not necessarily play a major role at the federal level within the SPÖ, but we already notice that on the one hand he is very massively addressing the head of state of Upper Austria Dr. Josef Pühringer and on the other hand practically distance himself from everything in Vienna. That's where Haider found German Chancellor Gusenbauer because he believes he can score, because he, of course, does not stand very well with his SPÖ in Upper Austria as far as the survey values are concerned. And you have to say that in this House too, because it is not very credible if, on the one hand, a very positive and objective discussion takes place here, but on the other hand, only in order to achieve a certain advantage in party politics, a position is taken from a social democratic point of view, I think, completely incomprehensible. The ÖVP does not understand that either. But I don't think there's any political change here; it won't pay off at the 2009 Landtagswahl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] 27 countries with 480 million citizens need new rules. And we decide these rules of play today. They are necessary in order to further develop Europe successfully. What has been happening in recent years since Austria joined the EU? - We've multiplied exports. We have over 115 billion € export volume. We have 150 000 additional jobs. We have an economic growth of half to one percent in addition to EU accession. We have a lot of opportunities in the area of East Open, where we invest a lot of money, for example in Romania and Bulgaria. This also has The work situation in Austria has a positive impact on the situation in the workplace, because jobs are ultimately safeguarded in the headquarters. There were 10,000 exporters in 1995, there are now 30 000 exporters who transfer products and services abroad. I think that's a great balance that can be seen. We have done very good work on EU funding, labour market, border region, tourism, research promotion and SMEs. It is also important for the people that we explain to them: Much is paid to the EU, but Austria also gets back very, very much. On average, we have 300, 400 million € that remain net, we are net direct payers. I believe that if you look at the overall balance sheet, you can see that this commitment in Europe has been quite worthwhile. We are in the heart of Europe. I think it is a good day today when we decide on these new rules so that Europe can continue to develop so positively.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18045	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18066	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! In advance, a quote from Jean-Claude Juncker, who has declared his EU-college democracy. Quote: “We decide something, then put it in the room and wait a while for what happens. If then there is no great scream and no uprising, because most do not understand what has been decided, then we continue – step by step until there is no return.” [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: When is the quote? You don't even know!]] I don't think it's better to formulate it. I agree with what Mr Juncker said. It's a salami tactic we're experiencing here: The people will be cut to pieces, and democracy will be eroded. I also think of the colleague Grossmann, who recently found – also a quote – that: Because it is impossible to capture the entire contract as a legal and political laymanship, manipulation attempts would be open to door and door. – Also a significant example of how democracy can be seen. Now the question: Is it not also a way of making the treaty different, making it more open, more readable, understandable, so that the simple Austrian citizen can understand what is happening? Or was the Treaty deliberately complicated to prevent citizens and politicians from reading or understanding something at all? Or was the Treaty also so complicated to hide any negative effects in it? Can't be anything! The fact is – you know, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens – that: If we put this Treaty to the vote, it would be negative for the people. And that's why you refuse to talk openly about what's behind it. The fact is, we're working on disk policy here. When we look at the visions of the young industry, we know where this should lead. I have an interesting brochure here that you have also received. I studied her. It is said, among other things, that English should become the only official language at European level. – That is, the abolition of German in the EU. Is this something that we really want to represent on the part of Austrian politics simply to ignore 100 million people with German native language? Do we want to create cultural unity by allowing these visions? It also says: The creation of a European army, the creation of a European constitution, the creation of a European fiscal policy. – These are clearly the visions of the ÖVP and the Industrial Union. And we don't want that! We don't want centralism, we don't want imperialism. Another point: National states are losing importance. – Extinction of the nation states, you don't need them anymore. There is a widespread transfer of competences from each Member State to the EU. Things are on the table. We now have a policy to cover up what is really planned. And we know exactly where this should go: Destruction of existing structures and reconstruction of structures with a Europe of the regions, including – as a Carinthia – disintegration of the nation states and the creation of new regions. In Carinthia this is to happen in association with Slovenia and Friuli-Venezia Veneto, capital perhaps Trieste or Liège. Everything's already prepared. This is, of course, exactly the point where citizens become nervous, where they become cautious. And the Carinthians are also sensitive about these things. Not for nothing: Twice they wanted to drive Carinthia out of the association of Austria. We're talking about a dictatorship of the corporations here. We know what's going on, we know that people are exploited and squeaked out like lemons, that people are not at the centre of politics, but profit maximization. Wages are reduced, the power pressure increased and so on and so on. In view of these facts, speaking of “social union”, this is really an increase in the facts. We also know that the companies now have the say, and we know – and I am surprised by my colleague Pirklhuber – that groups like Monsanto already have huge access to agriculture, to food policy. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Not in Europe!]] Mr President, it is really amazing how you have fought with us over and over again against the big corporations like Monsanto, but today is falling down. They are no different from the Reds and Blacks in their statements, probably you have received a European Greens' Directive. I don't know where this brainwashing comes from. It is very interesting to note that. The fact is: Monsanto has now bought up 50 more genetic engineering companies and agricultural groups with about €13 billion. This leads to a huge concentration in this sector coming to us. We also know that this seed monopoly will cause us to become extortionable. We have a corporate concentration in Europe. Quoting food monopoly and energy monopoly results in something like an extortion possibility. Have you thought about it? Imagine what happens when a large Russian company really turns off the gas supplies! Within three days it would no longer be possible to bring food from Europe to Austria, it would no longer be possible to provide for our people. Within a week, people are about to starve, within two weeks the first disaster scenarios are about to begin. These are facts. We will be completely dependent on large companies when it comes to allowing these developments. We don't want a food monopoly, a seed monopoly, and we don't want there to be something like an energy monopoly. All of this applies to us if we do not face these developments. These are facts that we unfortunately need to take note of God. That is why we are also opposed, so we are really looking forward to this development. What you're doing today is detonating the National Council. They make the National Council an “Internationalization Council”. I'm sure we don't want to!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18121	Mr Fazekas is now speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18142	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If I have been able to make a little revision of the debate which I have been following with interest for a very long time, I can say that in the arguments of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reform Party and of the European People's Party I have two things to say: On the one hand, the basic idea was that not only should the internal market and the free movement of goods be a priority, but also that a community of values should be defined based on the cultural, religious and humanistic heritage of European history. That was also an argument in which you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, could go with you. I miss at all, or I have the feeling that your strategy is completely wrong, because your campaign you are currently running comes a little too early. They have an exclusive withdrawal campaign. But this you can only guide if You join this treaty when it comes to ratification, because then there is an exit clause inside and then you can make this campaign. I do not wish you any success, nor do I believe that you will not have great success with this. At BZÖ, I notice or feel pretty slowly that in this southern federal state, in the beautiful Carinthia – that is true – the great mentor has issued a general strategy, according to the motto: We have to succeed in getting over the perceptive limit again, because no one is aware of us anymore! - That's how you bring these arguments. It seems to have been forgotten that this Treaty of Lisbon is also very much about the fact that the municipalities, the cities, the municipalities in their very special importance are being strengthened, that the Treaty of Lisbon is the EU's first legal document, which serves to safeguard and respect local self-government and states that subsidiarity control is particularly emphasized, that the Committee of the Regions, which has been particularly up-to-date, has a right of action for the first time, and that the Charter of Fundamental Rights also explicitly recognises local organisations and the fundamental right to access to local services and to general care. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] I do not think that was mentioned in the discussion, but that should also be said. I therefore feel that it is all the more sad that many of these two groups will be able to use this discussion to provoke fear only. [[towards FPÖ and BZÖ]] or to try – in order to be the first to be in the populism ranking – this treaty, which is designed to guarantee a common social, peace and economic policy, in this form. I find that very unfortunate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18191	The next item is Mrs Grander. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18212	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the importance of the European Union in the context of the contribution of the European Social Fund to labour market policy to the Austrian labour market service, particularly as regards women. Through the EU, Austrians are open to us a labour market of 180 million jobs, and Austrians are using this free movement. There are around 180 000 Austrians employed or employed in the EU, while vice versa 150 000 EU citizens are employed in Austria. The European Social Fund is giving impetus to the development of labour market policy, which is a catalyst in gender mainstreaming as a central policy orientation and a contribution to increasing equal opportunities. 70 percent of the persons supported are women. Further: Training for employees to assist employers in adapting the qualifications of their employees to tomorrow's requirements. This consciously driving the qualification of women in turn reaches 80 percent of women. At this point I would like to introduce a project of the AMS Tirol in Lienz: ‘SOFA’ is the title of the project. 70 percent of the women excreted from this project in 2007 took up a service relationship immediately thereafter. This enabled every tenth self-employed woman to participate in a higher qualification with the help of the ESF. 400,000 employees have benefited from this possibility during the last period of support from 2000 to 2006, which is an average of 58 000 people per year. €425 million were transferred to the AMS during this funding period. Finally, I would like to say briefly: This EU reform treaty is good for the Austrians – and not for Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18255	The next speaker is Mr Neubauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18277	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Allow me to start by referring to a statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who today has closely followed everything and placed it on the gold scale. I allow myself to clarify a word donation in its own right. Indeed, he has said that if we remember that 50 kilometres after Vienna, civilisation has ceased. That, ladies and gentlemen, is unworthy of a German chancellor! It cannot be said that our neighbours, who have had a system which, according to today's standards, we quite recognize as communist and as partly not worthy of human beings, would have had no civilisation. For this, Mr Bundeskanzler, I believe that in any case an excuse is more than necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In April 2008, Austrian history will be considered as a “black day” for the Austrian population, for the Austrian people. The Austrian population has expressed in numerous demonstrations that it does not want 80 percent of what is being decided today and that it does not want us politicians to simply pass over these normal citizens' wishes today. Ladies and gentlemen, I was at the final rally yesterday and I must say what the ORF has allowed and done in recent weeks has really had GDR manners: No trace of the fulfilment of the public-law mission, of an education mission, no information of the Austrian population at all, what comes to them with this so-called reform treaty, what it has to do with, and if it is reporting, then it was a disinformation and a manipulation! If there were 1,000 demonstrators, then according to ORF 100, there were 10,000, there were 2,500. You can't deal with a monopoly like that! There is a lot of work to be done, ladies and gentlemen. We must strive to achieve democratic standards with this ORF. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How much the population is dissatisfied with the current situation we can read out of hundreds of letters of readers every day. I can also bring you some to hear, ladies and gentlemen, because you seem to read about it. Dipl.-Ing. Hollerer from Vienna, for example, writes: “It is depressing how a demonstration of people who are concerned about the EU Treaty is being brought to a halt.” Johanna Zotter from Weißenstein writes: “It is really terrifying how much the ORF manipulates the citizens in our country...” She asks the question: “As an Austrian citizen, do we not have a right to objective reporting?” Mr Helmut Bitschnau from Vandans in Montafon says that “the call for a referendum is neither right nor left, but simply ‘fair’ and the good right of every individual citizen”! Viktor Rothstock from Guntramsdorf says: “I am ashamed of this government.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What this brings about your approach clearly shows a graphic. Do you know how many Austrians feel decided as Europeans? You know that? You probably don't know that because you don't have your ear on the citizen anymore. [[Abg. Murauer: But you don't know!]] Mr President, I know that I can also show you the graphics. [[The speaker holds the above-mentioned image in the height.]] In total, this is 7 percent in Austria. In Vorarlberg it is 4 percent, in Tyrol it is 2 percent, in Salzburg it is 3 percent, and so it continues. That, Mr President, is the reality, but they do not want to be true. I can only tell you one thing: Not only from the opposition ranks are the negative votes, but also from your own ranks, Mr. von der ÖVP. I can read to you what a highly valued former parliamentarian wrote: "As always called, a Constitutional Treaty must give citizens the opportunity to control their elected politicians and make them po­litively responsible for wrong decisions. The only cosmetic corrections provided for in the Treaty in favour of extended rights of participation by the European Parliament and the national parliaments do not change this basic problem. To date, the small print of the new Treaty has not been made known at all, let alone its impact has been discussed. Consent without referendum would be a fatal mistake and suitable to completely alienate the EU from its citizens.” – This has no less than DDr. Friedrich König, Vienna, Klubobmann of the ÖVP Parliamentary Club a.D., said. Ladies and gentlemen! I already know that you are always trying to make all that comes from the opposition bad and ugly – but these are voices from your own area. I can also tell you how you deal with this when it comes to neutrality. The former Chancellor Schüssel meant that “neutrality should not have a place in the European context at all” when it comes to implementing European values. At the same time, Klubobmann – then Klubobmann – added Khol, “this is only more than a half-mond sickle” to this neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens – no one is there at all at all – the Federal spokesperson of the Green Alexander Van der Bellen said at the time that the EU's commitment to aid was contrary to Austria's neutrality law and that this was unconstitutional. – Today, however, Mr Van der Bellen obviously no longer agrees to a constitutional act – against his then expressed conviction! Ladies and gentlemen, this must be broken right on the tongue! Mr Van der Bellen himself noted that this act is unconstitutional – and still agrees with it today! I can only imagine one more thing, as Mrs Glavischnig said on Sunday, on the question of who should vote: Who is the people? The Third President of the National Council, please ask who the people are! – I can tell you: You are all the people up there, and you should not let that happen to the Third President! [[towards gallery]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If a President of the National Council does not know who the people are, then you have to show her who the people are at the elections! It is absolutely incomprehensible that the Green Education Workshop is on the stage outside the doors for the financing and organisation of demonstrations against this contract, but here the Greens are acting quite differently! Even today in the early morning, at this vigil, the Greens were here in front of the gates against this treaty. That is why someone should explain to me why the Greens agree to this, but outside they are demonstrating for the other side! It can only be said that the "walk through the institutions" of the 68th movement in the Greens is finally completed – yes, and that can only mean that you have become very arbitrary, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! In any case, we liberals will not betray the people and, of course, vote against this treaty.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18369	Next, Mr Pendl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18392	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned by a number of previous speakers who spoke on the adoption of this Treaty, but now this word has fallen a few times, and I would like to address it briefly. Let us look at the Austrian federal constitution, ladies and gentlemen! There you can only find out: We stay on the ground of the Austrian federal constitution. And: From the municipal councils to the countryside to here in the High House, we can distinguish very clearly what representative democracy is and where, of course, referendums and popular surveys also have their place. That is why we are trying to agree for hours today that it is undemocratic to agree to this treaty, that is already strong Tobak, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! That's how we can't stop that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, this reform treaty, including experts, is a compromise of 27 states, but let us be honest: How many times have some of you said here when we have passed laws here – whether in a coalition or in the form of an agreement between all parties –: Citizens will think about the content when they read it!Unknown term type: "%s".? But compromises are just like that. It is important that they point in the right direction. I believe that the history of our continent, especially post-war history – I do not want to repeat everything that has already been expressed here – shows that we are together on a path that points in the right direction. We must try to ensure that there is a strong and social Europe, especially as an answer to global questions that will arise to everyone. I don't like to quote one of my previous speakers, but: Mr Klubobmann Schüssel has rightly said that we have been discussing the EU reform process here for eight years. For eight years now, we've been discussing this! It is not right to make yourself here and to claim that this is the only way to get over it! Either those who claim to have been somewhere else for eight years – or they have not listened! At least now, as if there had been no way of talking to experts in the committees about it, it is not true, as has been said. There we really talked about everything. As mayor, I would like to make the following very important comment here: What discussions were there not all here in the hall?- Oh, my God! Sold out the Austrian water!, it was here – and so on. Everyone you're sitting in here can certainly remind you of it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Please don't make X for a U! Now we have taken an important path, including with regard to our municipalities. I am really glad that this very central question could be resolved in this way, especially in the interests of people in our communities and cities. That is why we will accept this treaty with conviction in the interests of the people of our home country, in the interests of the Austrians, because we need a strong and above all a social Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18453	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18477	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Almost all day long, we have been discussing this EU Treaty here, and there are a lot of contributions to debate and see how the parliamentarians are thinking about the future of Europe, thinking about the regions, thinking about our country. Mr Klement, in his statement here, has firmly claimed that we should focus on energy monopolies and therefore have serious fears and fears. - No! This new reform Treaty also provides very good assurance for the chapters on energy, energy policy, environmental policy, climate change and rural areas. I also believe that this reform treaty can ensure the functioning of the energy market and, secondly, ensure security of supply, promote energy efficiency and ultimately also define, develop and build forward-looking renewables and energy sources. I believe that it is very essential and important that we do not neglect the regions, and I now want to say in relation to my constituency – and I too had concerns in 1995 about Austria's accession to the European Union, which is what is about rurally dominated regions: The districts of Fürstenfeld, Radkersburg, Feldbach have tried – and managed: We in our region have built a thermal landscape, have built up the “Vulkanland”, announced the term “Zotter-Schopolade” throughout Europe; likewise today everyone can probably start something with brands such as “Gölles-Essig” and “Vulcano-Schinken”; everything from this region. And why did all of this work out? – We did not fear, we took action – and we did so properly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that is not yet the end – and we, as regional Members, do not want to resist, but to be positive on these things, to tackle and implement things: for our people and for our country! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18516	The next speaker is Mr Lutz Weinzinger. I put the watch on the desired 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18540	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been called a small-format mass leaf here today. On Monday a guest comment by Professor Dr. Adrian Hollaender from Vienna was to be read. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – May I ask you to listen to me! - I can now quote Dr. Hollaender: The Federal Constitutional Act has the Republic of Austria at the conclusion of the Accession Treaty "in accordance with the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Austria. In April 1994, the outcome of the negotiations established by the Accession Conference was requested to take place under these conditions. - Quote. However, this outcome of the negotiations has now been completely changed by this reform treaty. It can therefore be concluded that at least it would not be wrong to question the people about it again and carry out a referendum. Having heard today, in an hourly debate on the part of the ÖVP, SPÖ and also the Greens, what incredible benefits this new Treaty brings to us and to Europe, I cannot imagine that it is not carried out in this way in our population, so that it is happy to vote for it in the context of a referendum. They all know very well that we do not have a referendum because you fear that this will not be agreed, because the people of the EU have been disappointed for years, and because the people feel that they are evading their own right through the EU, the possibility of co-building is missing. The population does not know exactly what influence different lobbyists have; it does not know, but it has the feeling that something is wrong here. I would now like to refer to an action by my charming colleague, Mrs Brigid Weinzinger, who has done something today, which I very much support. She's been working for Tibet. Since reading “Seven Years in Tibet” by Heinrich Harrer as a young person, I have had great sympathy for this highly interesting people. But have you noticed with what kind of course and how quickly the President of our National Council has rejected this request, this concern and its treatment? Why do you think? – Although she said that she was also interested in the Tibetans, and the problem is well aware of it – in the subsequent discussion of the Rules of Procedure it was said again and again – but it is not being dealt with! Why not? Now I can tell you why: Tibet, when properly informed, has been part of China since 1959, Tibet is part of China. What, please, is China? – China is a booming economic area. Who is interested in booming economic areas in which you can obviously make a lot of money? [[Call the ÖVP: All!]] All of them? – That’s what I tell you, of course, the global, international capitalist big corporations have an interest in it! They are of interest, namely the highest interest; the mixed trader in St. Roman has no interest in it, and the host in Ybbsitz has no interest in it either. The small and medium-sized economy feel rather threatened by these great, global forces, by these global capitalist forces. These global capitalist forces with their lobbyists influence the EU to an ever-increasing extent – and therefore the great scepticism of our people towards further strengthening the EU's influence on our policies! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Then finally do something! Don't be sorry!]] You must take this into account! If you are truly democrats, as you have it in your name as social democrats, as you have it in your basic attitude as Christian-social and social democrats, if you are truly democrats, then, of course, after a corresponding Enlightenment and after you have made known your thoughts and your beliefs, allow a referendum! That's the minimum you can expect. I don't understand why, if you're so convinced that this is so good that you can't get close to the population. Are we, as politicians, really removed so that we can't talk to the people anymore? [[Call the ÖVP: Not us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! “Sir, give thought” – in this case I don’t say “Sire”, but I just say: Give folk vote!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18606	Next, Mr. Dr. Kräuber. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18630	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Of course, I must reject the political theses of the previous speaker to Tibet as grotesque. This was a simple question of Rules of Procedure, which was resolved by common accord. That's how it looks at this point. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look beyond heated plenary debates and emotions a little beyond the edge of the plate and the look becomes free, then it is undisputed and indisputable that the EU is a great idea. Peace, security, prosperity on our continent, that is a foundation! However: Too few Austrians currently recognize this. This is an assignment to the Federal Government and to politics as a whole, but also to those responsible in the economy, to cultural creators, to society at all and to the media, this vision, this idea and this project to be made more clear. It is also necessary to see the positive and the negative in such a contract. There is considerable progress in terms of democracy and control as well as in the social field, and of course there are also negative and compromises. This is actually in the nature of the case in 67 countries that have to seek and find a common denominator, and of course not all wishes can be fulfilled. It is even legitimate – and I would like to say that too – if some see only negative developments in the EU. As long as it is the actual, really negative, it is a serious criticism. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not legitimate, not understandable and unacceptable if irrational fears are startled when prejudices are reinforced and smooth falsehoods are claimed! Unfortunately, this has a certain tradition: the thyroid yogurt, the blood chocolate; Jörg Haider, these extra-class shudder tales that have really failed grandly. Dr. Haider played his credibility with it at the time. This is unfortunately continued by political actors. Today, co-written: Atom technology is imposed on Austria; the centralist state of Europe, which allows the death penalty; Austria must say goodbye to the social state. – Ladies and gentlemen, you really can't do that! The main message of the FPÖ and the BZÖ – and that is what you should say – is ultimately: Departure from the EU, the euro, the schilling back, and then everything will be cheaper! – But believe me, but very few will come to mind. Overall, this is a good progress for Austria and Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18682	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18703	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! As a speaker, it is of course my concern to talk about security in Austria, about security in Europe and to say what this has to do with the reform treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been pointed out – in particular Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel mentioned it in a very striking way – that only the fact that in this Europe we keep peace, strengthen peace, strengthen human rights and create freedom for many states is to be placed almost under the term of the "wonder". This should strengthen and improve us with this new Treaty, with the new Treaty, which also addresses solidarity, which addresses solidarity among all 27 Member States: Solidly ensure that, when a state is in distress, when it has to take disasters, natural disasters, technical disasters, other states are there for it! And that we also help each other when it comes to other conflicts, military threats, including the possibility for neutral states, the possibility also for Austria. There is no obligation for Europe to say that military solidarity is necessary, but it is important to point out – and to calm down the population – that each country itself has to decide how far it can support it. So we decide for ourselves in Austria to what extent we go in military support. From the former EU ambassador Woschnagg to the head ideologist of the Freedom Party, Mölzer, all say that this reform treaty has nothing to do with our neutrality and that our neutrality will be maintained. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: That's not what Mölzer said!]] Sage Do not ask people to be false, but stick to the truth! I am of course very interested in how the Upper Austrian Members of the SPÖ will behave today. Your party leader in Upper Austria has said that he is in favour of the referendum – I also assume that you will meet this obligation today – and the Federal Chancellor, who is of course the Federal Party President, is in favour of taking account of representative democracy accordingly. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't break our heads!]] Now I ask you, Mr Gartlehner, Mr Gaßner, Mr Keck and Mr Schopf. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Look, fishers don't insult bowls!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Take care of fishermen!]] - You're not an Upper Austrian MP. Or do you apply for an overarching mandate? – You need to talk to your colleagues about this. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Lisbon will continue to allow us to maintain peace, freedom and independence in this common Europe and in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18789	Next, Mr Kurzmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18821	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In his speech today, Dr. Schüssel referred to the red and white-red scarf of the liberals. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He made a really good speech! You have to say that!]] We have deliberately chosen this as a symbol that signals our commitment to our home country Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We liberals are the social home party and represent not only here in the House, but of course also outside. We have also chosen this symbol because we do not allow anyone in this House to surrender to patriotism and are proud of this country, its population, its historical and cultural achievements. In his speech, Dr. Gusenbauer submitted to us that we wanted to leave this EU as a freeman. [[Call the Greens:No na!]] ‘No na!’, please, this is also a comment that is self-evident. – Strache has always said that it may be the last means; but it is, of course, an obligation to work with and work with the Federal Chancellor. I see that he loves demagogic abuses, and I now also understand much better than the comments from his own party when he deals with the “sister”, because probably the criticism of the EU Constitutional Treaty is to be classified by him in the same line. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's discussion has shown that not only the representatives of the Austrian Federal Government, but also many representatives of the people, namely the representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens, are actually afraid of the people. Otherwise, it is really impossible to understand that one does not free the way for a referendum. But of course you have your good reasons for avoiding a referendum, because you know of course that a majority of the Austrians reject this EU Constitution, which you so harmlessly call ‘the Treaty of Lisbon’. Their concept of democracy and politics reminds us not of modern democrats, but rather of an Austrian state ruler from the past. I mean Prince Clemens Prince of Metternich. Because we are already in a year of historical anniversaries: Prince Metternich, with his way of passing over the population, did not allow the population to participate in political events, was eliminated by the Revolution in 1848. Some of those who still have such a thought are in office and dignity today, and we must note that the so-called “political elites” in Europe manifestly show a similar attitude. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do you ignore Article 1 of the Austrian Constitution, which reads as follows: “Austria is a democratic republic”, everything “right goes from the people”? Why should I put it? You are also going beyond Article 44 of the Austrian Constitution, in which it is stated that an overall change in the Constitution can only be effected after a referendum? Konrad Adenauer and Charles de Gaulle, the founding fathers of the new Europe after the Second World War, have already been quoted. Your idea of a Europe of the Fatherlands is no longer recognizable – and of course they would turn around in the grave – because we live in a Europe of the Eurocrats, in which self-appointed, withdrawn political elites simply give the tone. Just think of the President of the European Parliament, Mr Pöttering, who has sanctioned the critics of this EU at once. Or think of the Europe of major corporations, in which a new form of economic exploitation takes place under the pretext of globalisation. You, ladies and gentlemen, want the United States of Europe. We don't want to do that in any case. We do not want a European constitution, we do not want a European state! That is why, from our point of view, this Constitutional Treaty, which we are discussing today, is a Mogel Pack, which has actually become obsolete by the referendums in France and Holland. The Freedom Party is the social home party. We represent Austrian interests, and we refuse to present ourselves here as willing agents of the Brussels headquarters.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18877	Next, Mr Zach. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18899	Madam President. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Now it is Mr President!]] Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Today I have listened in detail to what the FPÖ and BZÖ colleagues have told us here, and I conclude by saying: There is no single argument against the reform treaty, which maintains a thorough review. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What your problem is: They are in a national trap, or better said, because you only understand football language, you are in the national downside trap. [[Abg. Kickl: Why can you talk now?]] Why? – Because you only believe that Europe is to get everything, but not to contribute to it. What you want is the European self-service shop at the expense of all others. Because you are always putting it in the debate as an argument that the principle of unanimity is abandoned and, so to speak, there is a principle of majority voting: What you have not even brought into the debate is the following. What if Austria tries to enforce interests, and we win partners, but ultimately the whole thing fails that a single country is blocking it, for example higher environmental standards or something in the social field? . I do not wish to see this situation that Austrian interests or European interests remain solely dependent on the blockade of a single Member State. Look at it from this perspective! The problem is, rather, as far as the issue of referendum is concerned. Here comes Mr. Westenthaler and tells us: This is a breach of the Treaty, and the Constitution is being ignored. I am, honestly, skeptical when the BZÖ mentions constitutional breach here, of a party whose highest representative – your head of state – is not even able to implement the Constitution and give the Carinthians the opportunity to have bilingual local boards: I certainly do not let you teach me in constitutional matters! But I also thought a little bit about what the reason for this discussion is that we are faced with such a scepticism from the population, and what we need to do better next time. I think it would be necessary if we also thought about the further development of the European Union that we consider whether, next time, we are not taking a vote in advance of a process and for example the legitimacy of the population. I think it would have been an interesting approach if a vote had been taken in advance to give the European politicians or representatives the legitimacy to draw up a constitution. I think that this process of legitimacy would have been necessary and would now save us some problems in this debate. I am also very sorry that we have left out essential elements, which have also allowed European patriotism in this debate, in this reform treaty, such as a common hymn or flag. It is also important to have symbols with which the population can identify. Finally, a clear yes to this Treaty and to the development of the European Union, because what you are promoting here leads us exclusively to a dead end. [[towards FPÖ and BZÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18969	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18990	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The Lisbon Reform Treaty is under discussion today, and this, of course, gives us the opportunity to talk about the EU in itself. And here I am firmly convinced that it is an advantage for all of us that there is this European Union. The existence of this state association means peace, more security, more enforcement, more economic power, more jobs and, finally, more quality of life for our citizens. Of course, I do not agree with everything the EU does and what it proposes, and that is why we must continue to work towards improvements. This Lisbon Reform Treaty brings improvements to the people of our country. The EU will become more effective, modern, environmentally conscious, the EU will become more democratic. Fundamental rights are indictable. The EU Parliament will have a full right of participation in European legislation in future. Austria will receive an additional seat in the EU Parliament, and the municipalities and regions will be strengthened. The EU will not be perfect afterwards, but an important step in the right direction has been taken. Can I say another sentence towards BZÖ and FPÖ? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Please!]] – We are elected to decide, and we can also bear the responsibility for that. The Kärntner head of state was on the way to collect signatures for a popular survey. It has just become three percent of the population of Carinthia. This is not very strong in itself, rather weak for a national captain party. So, more courage to bear responsibility. If we don't go the way of uncertainty, let's go the way of confidence! This contract brings benefits to Austria, this contract brings benefits to the Austrians. Voices So you agree to this contract!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19028	The next item is Mr Grossruck. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19077	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For seven hours now, we have been discussing this so-called reform treaty. If you've been listening to this, then one thing comes up: The opposition, FPÖ and BZÖ, is against. Not for fundamental reasons, because I'm convinced: If the FPÖ were in the government, it would be in the same position today as it did two years ago by the BZÖ, which agreed to the Lisbon Treaty. [[Abg. Stache: Certainly not! You can take poison on that! That was the team on the other side!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is of course quite easy to understand: They want to get votes. You want to make the votes with fear, because what Mr Strache has given of himself today at the beginning of the debate, that's just crying out to heaven. I ask all Austrians to: Don't believe this shit! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Well, after!]] The death penalty is to be introduced! – This is directly grotesk, Mr. Strache, that you go to the speaker’s desk here and say: The EU wants to introduce the death penalty! In this example alone, one has to see how solidly Their arguments as a whole are either vague or their arguments. Neutrality is to be abolished, the water is sold and so on, the FPÖ claims. We all know that this is not the case, of course, but with fear it is easier to work and perhaps even easier to win some voice than with arguments as we brought it. [[Abg. Strache: The “Ederer-Tusender” for example!]] I can quote two examples: Lothar Späth, a former Prime Minister from Germany, recently celebrated his 70s and said: Imagine that we did not have the European Union during the Balkan War. It would have become a fire all over Europe, and we would have had war again. The current economic crisis in America can only be mastered because we have a common Europe because we have a common currency. Every country would tear it down in this economic crisis today. These are arguments that must be put forward, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we will, of course, agree today. You, Mr Strache, have said that you are also against the EU. That's what you said today, you have to tell the people that you want to get out. [[Abg. We are very good for Europe, for another Europe!]] Your access, Mr. Strache, is as follows: Because I don't like the EU, I don't have a reform contract either.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19192	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19214	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! We have heard a lot of amazing things today, especially from the FPÖ, and it has been accused to us Members in the House of being too cowardly and would not trust to question our people on a very complex contract. I can only tell you: We know each other, and that is why we trust ourselves because we love this country and its people to ratify this Treaty of Lisbon within the framework of our responsibility. I think it is incredible for you, Mr Strache, that you are proposing the debate on a referendum because, as you know too little, you simply do not trust to make a request for withdrawal from the EU. [[Abg. Strache: That I am for a referendum?]] You propose a debate on a referendum because you think that you may not be right. That's really shocking! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I have now received a text message from a student. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just one? I get hundreds a day!]] AHS teachers have apparently taken up your arguments, which I have also read with shudders in the “Kronen Zeitung” on the reintroduction of the death penalty in Europe. Until 1983, despite the European Convention on Human Rights, the death penalty in the event of war or war was deemed to be allowed as a principle. I can tell you that in 2002 with 13. ECHR Additional Protocol, in which all EU Member States are also members, has been abolished without exception and these exceptions no longer apply and can no longer be introduced. With this fear policy, you want to bring the youth back to Europe, which I remember: to countries with borders, to a Europe where it was difficult to buy in neighbouring countries where it was difficult to make calls in neighbouring countries where it was difficult to complete or work in neighbouring countries. And we certainly do not want to do that for the young people of Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19280	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19301	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today the final stage of a discussion that has begun with the process of unification in the Montan Union has developed over the EFTA and the European Economic Area to the full membership of Austria in the European Community. [[Abg. Strache: The discussion starts first! She started today!]] It is important that we not only develop one-sided Europe – whether it be limited to certain areas – but also a comprehensive Europe that is future-looking and sustainable, which is ultimately a Europe capable of playing an independent role in the new global circumstances and effectively drawing closer to each individual state. We have been confirmed in the previous year, which we have sought to become the largest economic region in the world, that we have pushed the US from the first to the second place. Finally, it is this united Europe, ladies and gentlemen, which must be understood as an opportunity for the future. It must be understood that one can create more in peace, by working together, than by building up opposites. This is my Europe! I can recall the questions when enlargement came towards the eastern neighbours. Arguments were also used at the time, which meant: We're supposed to be afraid on the border. On the contrary! We were not afraid. The borders went up, and we have developed new economic and living areas that we can already be proud of together today. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I know that perhaps nothing goes without fear for some, but I will tell you as the chairman and chairman of the Euroregion Western Slovakia, Southern Moravia and Wine District: We built a success model. And how much has been done that can't work. On the contrary! I can really tell you from practice: We are proud that, with the mayors, we have created a EUREGIO with the regional authorities, which is a region of Europe which is competitive with other regions. The so-called linguistic difficulties that exist have, in fact, been overcome for a long time, through languages which are also understood in the countries concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, I also say this: We sometimes talk in a third language, but from the point of view of understanding, we have a common goal, and that is the objective of Europe as a whole: to create a Europe that can be built on in the future in the sense of the economy, in the sense of the people, in the sense of the social dimension. We have not spoken of a Europe of corporations, not of a Europe of the economy, but of a social Europe with a strong economy. This also means employment policy and a policy that allows us to live all that we expect to live this common dream of a great Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19347	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Arbitrator. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19368	Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the debate we have held earlier, I should like to make another motion for a resolution on China and Tibet, which is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be the request it has made.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19429	Mr Magistrate. The motion for a resolution put forward by arbitration is sufficiently supported. With regard to the previous decision to allow a similar request from the Green Group, I accept this request, which is why it is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19499	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19520	Mr President. In this case, one can accept that the request is only so late – we always have the problem – because it has been negotiated. As a result, however, I say to you: Here was made out of a clear per Tibet application, i.e. per human right application and per freedom application, a request that includes the usual diplomatic turns and swings, so that it is almost necessary to conclude that the incense and bowing before China and the message are already included. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not trust myself more strongly to formulate it, because the notice was too narrow now, but it may also be said that one per Tibet- per China application was made if one goes on sinning about it. – That has been a topic. Respect for the President, who has dared to allow the debate this way, although she has expressed another opinion before. The most important thing is: For me, this is only a small final assessment and observation. It is not surprising at all that the FPÖ, above all, and from me also the BZÖ, but at least even here in the house the FPÖ agitated and propagated, so you wonder what they are for. [[Abg. May. Hauser: Where else should we talk?]] The representative democracy, which would require a different approach, is also of importance. However, I would not have believed that one can also – and I have only just come up with it lately; painfully, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – concealing the fact that this concept makes sense. But she makes sense. Why? – Because this kind of behaviour, you almost want to say at times, the implicit refusal of discussion due to this hiding, of course, causes a lot of damage, which we complain here together. The damage is that there is too little discourse in the public, too little comprehensible discourse. I don't want to spread too much ashes on my head or on a foreign head, but we have to register and acknowledge: There's a problem! In the meantime, even if there are national elections in which a similar composition may be re-elected, it is at least not favourable if there is such a discrepancy between the perceived public opinion and the so-called People's Office here. You've got to say that. This will be in one hour. Then no new age begins. Then hopefully an age begins with more reason, because it is simple and touching – at least for me and my person – a question of consideration. Much is good and right in this contract, even if not all the yellow from the egg or the green from the tree in it can be found. But this is just the political business, that is to say, to weigh it off. And after this consideration, after this process you can say with conviction to this treaty. Stay the sad issue of the referendum. I therefore regret this hiding place because I am one of the very few, perhaps here in the House, who believed – or at least the idea of persecuting – that I want to hold a referendum so that this debate takes place, but that it can also be won safely so that certain insanity and prejudices are once and for all from the table. It works so badly. I take note of that. If it had lasted even longer, I could have said that I would have been taught another, but from today, already in an hour, you can base on a popular desire and a request to leave the EU. [[towards FPÖ and BZÖ]] Do it! This contract gives you the opportunity to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19579	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or one of the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. That is what we shall come to the vote. With regard to the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, together with the Protocols, Annex and Final Act of the Intergovernmental Conference, including those attached, there is one referral request from Members of Parliament. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, as well as Mr Aspock, colleagues. I shall vote on these requests under one. I would ask those members of the House who are here to refer the Treaty of Lisbon back to the Constitutional Committee in 417 to the Constitutional Committee for a sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to approve the conclusion of the Treaty of Lisbon in 417 of the Supplements. In view of the fact that the present State Treaty amends the contractual basis of the European Union, I first put it within the meaning of Article 50(1). 4 Federal Constitutional Act defines the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes", which are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who approve the conclusion of the Lisbon Treaty to vote yes, those who vote against to cast “No” votes. I now ask the author, Mr Rainer Wimmer, to begin the call for name; Mr Jakob Auer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19682	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for this purpose for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19717	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. [[18:10:01]] Members cast: 178; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 151, ‘No’ votes: 27. This is the required majority. The conclusion of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Union Community and Protocols, Annex and Final Act of the Intergovernmental Conference, including those attached declarations, are therefore approved. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. [[Long-lasting applause with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as the Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky and the Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Brinek, Brosz, Broukal; Cap, Csörgits; Dobnigg, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, perforation; Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Ehmann, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Fleckl, Franz, Freund, Fuhrmann, Führer, Fürntrath; Gahr Hermann, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grander, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Großruck, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Hakl, Haubner Peter, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höfinger, Höller, Hörl, Hornek, Hradecsni, Huainigg, Hursky; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kainz, Chapel, chapel, Karl, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knoll, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kukacka, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lens, Lights, Lohfeyer, Lueger, Lunacek; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Mandak, Marizzi, Mayer Elmar, Mikesch, Misethon, Mitterlehner, Morak, Moser, Muchitsch, Murauer, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz, Niederwieser; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reheis, Riener Barbara, Riepl, Zeit Sylvia, Rossmann, Rudas; Sburny, Schasching, Schalling, Schelling, Schittenhelm, Schönpass, Schopf, Schultes, Schussel, Sieber Norbert, Sonnberger, Spindelberger Erwin, Spindelegger Michael, Stadlbauer, Stadler Astrid, Stauber, Steibl Ridi, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Stumvoll; Tamandl, Trunk; Van der Bellen; Weinzinger Brigid, Wenninger Hannes, Wimmer, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm; Zach, Zinggl, Dwarf, Zweytick. Members voted with ‘No’: Aspock; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Bucher; Darmann, Dolinschek; Fichtenbauer; Grain duration, count; Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Hauser, Kickl, Klement, Kurzmann; Mayerhofer; Neubauer Werner; Rosary; sound, discs, stadlers, ewald, strache; themesl; Vilimsky; Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19915	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Bulgarian, Danish, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Swedish, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Czech and Hungarian language versions of this State Treaty are to be made known as a public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the arrangement of a referendum. The vote has been taken on this subject. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the arrangement of a referendum, to vote in favour of 'yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Rainer Wimmer, to begin the call for name; Mr Jakob Auerwill replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19992	The vote will end. The services of the House entrusted with this task will now take place under the supervision of the authors of the House. To this end, the session will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20025	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 174, of which: 173, invalid: (1) ‘Yes’ votes: 24, ‘No’ votes: 149. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on the arrangement of a referendum, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Aspock; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch; Darmann, Dolinschek; Fichtenbauer; Grain duration, count; Haimbuchner, Hauser; Kickl, Klement, Kurzmann; Neubauer Werner; Rosary; Schalle, Schultes, Stadler Ewald, Strache; themesl; Vilimsky; Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Brinek, Brosz, Broukal, Bucher; Cap, Csörgits; Dobnigg, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, perforation; Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Ehmann, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Fleckl, Franz, Freund, Fuhrmann, Führer, Fürntrath; Gahr Hermann, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grander, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Großruck, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Hakl, Haubner Peter, Haubner Ursula, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek, Hradecsni, Huainigg, Hursky; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kainz, Chapel, chapel, Karl, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kukacka, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lens, Lights, Lohfeyer, Lueger, Lunacek; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Mandak, Marizzi, Mayer Elmar, Mikesch, Misethon, Mitterlehner, Morak, Moser, Muchitsch, Murauer, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz, Niederwieser; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reheis, Riener Barbara, Riepl, Zeit Sylvia, Rossmann, Rudas; Sburny, Schasching, Scheibner, Schelling, Schittenhelm, Schönpass, Schopf, Schüssel, Sieber Norbert, Sonnberger, Spindelberger Erwin, Spindelegger Michael, Stadlbauer, Stadler Astrid, Stauber, Steibl Ridi, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Stumvoll; Tamandl, Trunk; Van der Bellen; Weinzinger Brigid, Wenninger Hannes, Wimmer, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm; Zach, Zinggl, Dwarf, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20203	We shall now proceed to further votes. Firstly, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner, Mrs Scheibner, Mr Colleagues, on the renegotiation of a Treaty for Europe and the general obligation to implement referendums on fundamental questions of European integration. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on popular survey of the EU reform treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Dr. Cap, Dr. Schüssel, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the Lisbon Treaty and on the further development of the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 66.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Weinzinger, colleagues on common EU positions and actions on the situation in Tibet. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schieder, Großruck, colleagues on the situation in Tibet. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 67.) We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 485 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We are now voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 486 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 487 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 488 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the main committee to take note of his 483 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[18:29:11]] 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (479, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Civil Fund Act 1996 and the Financial Balance Act 2008 (513 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20342	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20375	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A completely different subject from the previous one and yet for many in this country with dramatic effects, namely the storm disaster – especially the last one that has led to major damage in Austria's forests and thus to the forestry industry. The climate and the weather changes create a very critical situation for many affected farmers and forest owners, who are the first to do so when climate disasters occur more strongly. It is therefore appropriate to welcome the rapid and unbureaucratic change on the part of the Federal Government of these disaster funds. That's gratifying! However, we should also think of those who have to complain of dead family members due to these storms, because there have been four deaths, seven severely injured firemen and unfortunately more deaths among forest owners, forstans and so on during the necessary processing. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot alleviate this personal suffering, that is bitter truth, but we can help with the damage. The rapid aid in the event of disaster by increasing the disaster fund makes it possible to set up so-called wet camps for the flowing wood, which is obviously on the floor – whether through speculative measures, whether due to an excessive attack – and thus has become a problem. On the one hand, the damage caused by the windshield disaster and, on the other, the damage caused by the falling wood price cannot be positive in the long run. Therefore: Thank you for the possibility of this measure! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion it was mainly thanks to those who helped quickly in the days and weeks when it was necessary to resolve the problems of the storm disaster. These are the members of the Austrian fire brigades who did not ask: What do I get for it? for which it didn't matter whether it was day or night, but who were on the spot, have helped quickly and competently, sometimes even under the most difficult conditions, yes, sometimes even under the risk of life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely these teams that have been called for to express particular thanks. It was mainly the teams, but of course also the equipment required accordingly. Therefore, it is important that the €90 million promised and envisaged are available to the public every year for the financing of fire brigades in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This investment is well planned. It is part of the security we need: on the one hand, to be sure that assistance is possible, on the other hand, but also to give the fire brigade responsible the security that they can rely on the public hand. In this sense, thank you again for the rapid assistance provided by the disaster fund in the event of disaster. In turn, we see how important this institution is; it is a very crucial institution! I should like to remind you that in recent years, the disaster fund has very often also been used to help families affected in whatever areas. – In this sense: Thank you very much to the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20450	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. Also 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20472	Little surprising, as there are only pro-redners: My group will also vote in favour of this proposal. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Of course, the need to help victims of natural disasters is a matter of course for us. It is also the solution that there is a cost allocation between the local authorities in terms of increase, reasonable, and also the fact that now the establishment of wet camps can be promoted, which has not yet been the case, applies to our consent, for it is wise. I just wanted to say quite generally that it might be very useful if the federal government were to consider how it dealt with disaster laws. Again and again, it is heard that there is a certain pressure on mayors to grant permits for new buildings and the like, which are not necessarily suitable for this, simply because one knows from the past that there is a disaster every 100 years or every 200 years. The question arises whether the federal government could also make a contribution here. For example, he has the eHORA, the electronic flood risk zone Austria-system, which is located in the Ministry of Life, with which one knows exactly what risks exist in which areas of Austria, or has at least relatively well researched this from today's point of view. There is quite a question of whether or not the federal government says on its own that there is nothing to be built in the high-risk areas – and relatively regardless of whether it is avalanches, floods, earthquakes or whatever – because, if I do something there, it costs me an avalanche, because the people affected by it are losing house, property and property, and the fact that the federal government is therefore making it clear from the outset that this cannot be financed and that there is also a problem here, that it is a high-risk area and that, in the extreme case, one can even be excluded from disaster aid. As a federal government, you can de facto prevent such situations and also take the pressure from the mayors to grant permits in high-risk areas. That would simply be a thought on the subject, though not directly to the law. The law finds our approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20517	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20538	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “Kyrill” in the previous year, this year “Paul” and “Emma” – next year? You don't know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] As rarely as you meant that hurricane damage occurs, it's not anymore! That's really not too funny. [[Abg. Krainer:... every property affected!]] – Of course, Austria is not a very large area, and three storms within a year, that is not really little. I'll come back to that again. It is clear and undisputed that we too will agree to this law, because, of course, where damage has occurred, it is to be helped. This applies in particular to the construction of wet camps, for two reasons. Firstly, to prevent the propagation of the borque beetles, because they may be able to cause even greater damage than the one that has already arisen. The second reason is the difficult situation in the wood markets: There are sales problems with cutting wood, overcrowded timber bearings and heavily falling wood prices. Therefore, it is urgently necessary to store the wood, but wet bearings are, you have to be clear about it, at best second-best solutions. Why? - Point one: Due to the waste water situation, there are hardly any approved wet camps. Point two: The experts argue about the quality of the stocked wood. Point three: Wet bearings, although depressing the current situation on the wood market, are in reality moving the problems only to the future, not anymore. And fourthly, the problem remains that the built wet bearings of the previous year and the wood stored there could not yet be delivered. The better alternative would probably be not to make these damage at all, and that is why I am back at the point: The storm damage increases, that's it! This is also due, not least, to the fact that, although we always hear beautiful words in climate protection policy, we see few actions. It would be necessary to launch a climate policy that really deserves this name in order to prevent future disasters of this magnitude. The measures are obvious: They range from improving energy efficiency to getting out of oil, gas and the like. [[Abg. Oils: Very right!]] But the government is doing relatively little here! She's talking a lot, but she doesn't do much. The question is: How many disasters will the government wait for it to launch a climate policy worthy of this name? – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20594	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20616	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! 8 million feet speak a clear language. This is about the amount of wood that has been damaged by the storms “Emma” and “Paula” in January and March of this year. In other words, 14,000 hectares of forest area, 140 million square meters or – perhaps a little easier to imagine – 62 000 cargoes of railway cars. This results in a line which corresponds to the distance Graz–Rom. Of these 8 million solid meters of shady wood happened alone in the Styria 4 million. Since we know that real help can only be quick help, three weeks ago our national party observer Gerhard Kurzmann called for the increase of the disaster fund in a press conference. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Finance, Mr State Secretary, has responded as quickly as possible to this request and has assessed it positively. That is how we can already pass this law today. Among other things, a promotion of wet-slagers will be possible, in the form of 40 percent of investment costs, up to € 100 000. As one can imagine in the light of these figures, this is a promotion especially for large sawmills or large forestry plants. We're wondering what about the small farms. We have already addressed this issue in the Committee and announced that we will present an amendment today. We believe that not only the wet storage, but also the preservation of films is an important way to capture, secure and support, especially for small forestry plants in the range between 200 and 350 solid meters of wood. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] So far to our request. I hope you will agree. Other figures, in line with those of my colleague Firemen exposed: In Styria, 5,000 men in 2,000 real missions have provided help using their lives. The Austrian Red Cross was with 376 men and two field kitchens, responsible for the outing, in use and the Austrian German army with 400 men. 550 forest workers will still need this year to ensure damage to woodwork – in part under life-threatening conditions. We would also like to express our thanks at this point, and above all the hope that nothing will happen to them in the further revisions that will be necessary in the next few months.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20686	The amendment tabled by Mr Zanger is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20740	Mr Bucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20762	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We will expressly agree to this request because it offers very good assistance to the forest farmers affected by the storms “Emma” and “Paula”. There are also a number of forest farmers in my home district who are in danger of existence. Unfortunately, we also have to complain of God’s death. We can be proud of solidarity not only of the firearms and the population, but also of the authorities that immediately jump in to help and alleviate suffering. Of course, we also thank the Federal Government for the help it provided immediately, but also the countries affected. We can, I think, be very pleased that this solidarity will be so impressive. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We must not forget, however, that these now attracted wood wet camps are a bridge aid. They are not a definitive solution to the problem. We must also remember a lot of forest farmers, for example those in my district who have lost almost the entire wood and got into a situation where they have to sell a lot of their trees. This situation causes them to fall into a huge tax burden in one year. For this reason, we have prepared the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is what we have formulated, because it is about the fact that many farmers have lost everything with one stroke and, in these circumstances, would have to deliver 50 percent of their revenues to the financial office in one year. This is a situation which no one wants because the people concerned will have to invest in reforestation over the next few years. Therefore, we justify this request and hope to receive your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20822	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20901	Mr Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20923	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The two storms of "Paula" and "Emma" have brought us again a year in which with the expected damage, we have come across the border that would have been properly provided for in the disaster fund. I can remember that the two storms had wind speeds of 140 km/h, with top speeds of up to 200 km/h. They have caused significant damage, especially in the federal states of Carinthia, Styria, Salzburg and Upper Austria. All in all, from the funds available in the disaster fund, €82 million would be available at the moment and we would allow this change in law to double the annual funds available from €319 million to €319 million in the short term so that we can react quickly in such a situation so that in such a situation we can be able to provide adequate resources for the disaster that exceeds the limits. At this point I can only announce that we are committed to the prevention measures of €319 million from the €319 million we have in the Federal proposal in 2008 alone for €233.8 million, so we make a very strong effort to avoid disaster damage in the future through preventive measures, including regular contributions to fire brigades €28.4 million. If one calculates what fire brigades get from the fire tax, from the regular share, from the disaster fund and from the increase in total, then we have the minimum volume of €90 million. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can say at this point that it will be more. We already expect 2009 to exceed the minimum limit of €90.6 million without increasing, and are confident to approach the amount of €95 million in 2010, which is €94.4 million. Thus, we want to ensure that the fire brigades have sufficient modern material. I would like to join my previous speakers at this point and thank all the staff. I would also like to point out that this cooperation between the local authorities of Austria enables them to provide very, very quickly and very high-level assistance in the event of a disaster. We do not need to strengthen New Orleans now – Austria, as an alpine country, is also able to provide rapid assistance in the event of disaster, both to the inhabitants, to the farms and to the guests who come to the country as tourists. This is not only a humanitarian right, it is not only important for the standard of living in the country, it is also important as an economic factor. In this sense, we can only say that we are continuing our efforts together. I would like to focus briefly on the proposals that have come from the Members. Mr Krainer's first question was whether we should not think about whether, if we want to do so, we should be fully compensated for any offensive construction in endangered areas. I would like to admit, at this point, that we often find it difficult to replace businesses and private individuals in part because they have previously insured themselves, and then sometime before, we are faced with the question of whether the public hand in any case, in any case also the risk exposure in the same way and Ways can be like someone who is really just a victim. This will be difficult in the event of a storm, but in the area of floods there will certainly be considerations about saying: If payment is to be made from federal funds – and these are taxpayers' money – one would have to achieve that, for example, in red zones, for example, it will not be rebuilt. [[Abg. Prince: Passed in Upper Austria already!]] – Right, Upper Austria is a good example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] This is where one has tried to learn from the experience of 2002. It would be a good example if one could find a regulation here. In this sense, I can only say that we will surely allow the proposal of Mr Krainer to be incorporated into the discussions. With regard to the question of the lack of climate change measures raised by Mr Rossmann, I would just like to point out that every type of climate protection concerns our entire planet. Logically, we must do everything we can to limit a climate disaster, if it is not already preventable, at least in its effects, so that we can keep the form of climate warming and the associated meteorological phenomena as low as possible in the future. However, the connection of individual storms will be difficult to detect. What we are doing in Austria – as all political groups have voted – is that we have taken important steps since last year with the climate protection fund, with a significantly higher level of taxation for CO2-emitting energy sources. We are doing something in this area. Austria does not have to be ashamed of its climate change measures, we have a pioneering role in many areas in Europe. I only recall the areas from the generation of electricity to the date of the introduction of catalysts in the motor vehicles or the extent of thermal insulation in Austria, where a large number of Western countries could see what is possible. I believe that if we continue along this path, we must not be accused of Austria's contribution to the great cause of natural disasters. Austria is aware of the climate, which applies to all local authorities. The Federal Government is also trying to do everything it can to ensure that this contribution is made. Let us not be ashamed of it, but let us be proud of what we have achieved, and let us make even more efforts in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20976	Mrs Lentsch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20998	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, the two hurricanes “Paula” and “Emma”, as we all know, have caused enormous damage in Austria. We have 8.5 million solid metres of shady wood all over Austria, which cannot be cleared away at the speed. That is why a huge price decline threatens. That is why it does not pay off for some forest owners to work out this shady. But if the farmers don't get this wood out of the woods, this will probably get the borch beetle, then we also have an ecological one into a financial disaster. What we need, therefore, are wet bearings and, in general, measures to remove the pressure from the wood market and help forest owners. With this new law we allow two things: Firstly, an increase of €3 million in the disaster fund. This enables us to support the affected wet bearings by 40 percent. Secondly, we empower the Federal Government to double the funds of the disaster fund when there are floods, hurricanes or other natural disasters again. We must therefore now be very, very quick to help, because those who help quickly help twice. That is why we will be very pleased to accept this amendment. Finally, a thank you to the Federal Government in the name of those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21031	Mr Wimmer came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21052	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! A warm thank you! I would like to start by expressing my thanks to Mr Auer, the firemen. I think these people have done really unique things in connection with these storm damage. But there may be a way to strengthen this thanks, dear Jacob Auer. I'm making a suggestion: There is a long-standing demand of firemen that the Hepatitis vaccination is performed free of charge. I will take the opportunity to approach you in order to perhaps solve this problem unanimously. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, a very important item on the agenda, as we have already heard, is the decision-making process today. It is about the Federal Government being able to increase this disaster fund on request in the future. Of course, there are very special reasons why this is happening right now – the storms have already been addressed. It just needs to be taken in a very large amount of money to fix these damage. The donation of the disaster fund is simply not enough at this time. However, I would like to make one point in addition to the storm damage, because in our district of Gmunden this huge slide is taking place, which is causing us enormous problems. We know that there are two million cubic meters of mountain and earth moving. For five months, huge earth and stone masses have been pushing in the direction of Traunsee. Residents of twelve properties are directly affected and have to watch their homes disappear and perish. At the same time, however, for 130 days employees of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation have been working to counteract these natural forces and are trying to stop these avalanches. This is difficult and almost fails, the slide is hardly stopped. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to express my thanks from this point of view to these colleagues for the total commitment made by the colleagues there from the Wildbach and the avalanche cultivation. I am also saying this because a working group has been set up in the Ministry to redefine the scope of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation. A result is to be presented in June, and we are waiting for it. But I would like to say right now that avalanche and wildlife cultivation is an important institution in the fight against natural forces. We need them. Their structures are not necessarily changed, but strengthened and strengthened. Our task must be to make the necessary financial resources available. This proposal is successful today, with this proposal. We will, of course, be happy to give our consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21101	This is what Mr Deputies has to say. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21122	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria has already been plagued by two hurricane-like storms this year. 30 000 claims were reported in Upper Austria alone. My constituency, namely the Inn Quarter, was also greatly affected. Some 100,000 households were powerless until the next day. The forest owners also had to take particularly large financial damage. According to current estimates, the hurricanes "Paula" and "Emma" fell 8.5 million feet of wood. This is almost half of what is done in Austria every year. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, the woodworking industry cannot, of course, cope with these quantities at once. Some of the wood could be beaten last year and no longer processed. The wood has to be quickly out of the woods, also for its protection, because the price of domestic wood would otherwise fall into the groundless. It is therefore urgent to create new wet bearings for storage and quality assurance It will be the Of course, additional funds are needed, which I know, of course, as a farmer. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore pleased that we can empower the Federal Government to increase the funding of the disaster fund by €3 million if necessary, and that the countries in question can also add €3 million, because the affected need to be helped quickly and unbureaucratically. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] But I would also like to thank the thousands of firearms and rescue services that have done hard work during and after the storms. They are there when they are needed by the citizens. In Upper Austria alone, 660 fire brigades were used with 12,000 firemen. 35 000 operations were carried out at 6 200. Until the late hours of the night, they worked to clear the streets, provisionally repair damaged roofs, cut power lines freely, and supply households with electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The tasks of fire brigades are becoming more and more extensive. They are no longer pure fire fighters. More and more tasks require more and more modern technical equipment. They need the necessary financial resources, for which the people, but of course also the federal government, the countries and communities make their contribution. This law, of course, also contributes to improving the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21167	Mrs Sylvia Seiler's next speaker will be speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21192	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to this motion for a resolution tabled by the BZÖ, I would just like to mention that tax law already provides the conditions for this and that it is therefore unnecessary. The last days in January as well as the first days in March of this year, many Austrians will remain in bad memory. Within a few hours, the hurricanes “Paula” and “Emma” have raged in Austria and destroyed entire existences, yes, livelihoods. The damage caused by these storms is enormous. It is much worse, however, that the storm “Emma” caused four deaths in Austria. In the preparation of the damage caused by the two storms, there were another nine deaths. These human tragedies cannot be offset by financial means. In my home town of Deutschfeistritz – also one of the affected communities – the storm “Paula” has done all the work. Drive through Deutschfeistritz or other communities in the Graz-Umgegebung district, you can't imagine how the landscape has suddenly changed: Whole pieces of forest look like reddish. Strong trees lie like matches on the ground. Austria is expected to have a volume of shady wood of 8.5 million solid metres. The fact that such a huge quantity cannot be prepared in a few weeks is quite clear for both those concerned and for experts and laymen. Unfortunately, the birch beetle does not take a break, so a storage form for the wood has to be found. Of the approximately 8.5 million solid meters of wood, a quarter of it is now to be preserved in Naslagern. This measure, on the one hand, is intended to promote the spread of ed It is not a question of reducing the price of the wood market, such as the borch beetle, but rather of overburdening the wood market by the enormous attack on wood. The disaster fund will be spent €319 million in 2008. This innovation will provide the Federal Government with the opportunity to increase the annual donation so that, in the event of damage, the federal government, the states, the municipalities and also the private individuals can be helped quickly. This directive, which we are adopting today, sets out clear rules. In individual cases, there are subsidies up to 40 percent, up to € 100 000, of investment costs. At the same time, however, countries with a 50 % share have to make their contribution. However, from this point of view, I would like to thank all the forces, from the volunteer fire brigade to the federal army, to the staff of the power industry and the many volunteers who have dealt with themselves with it with themselves. They all did overhuman things in the damage treatment. We can be proud of these fellow human beings in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21243	Next speaker: Mrs Stadler. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21264	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we decide to increase the disaster fund by €3 million, but also to empower the Minister of Finance to increase these funds by further means if further disasters occur. And this measure has proved successful in recent years. As a Tyrolean and Tyrolean, I know from experience how fast help can work for those affected and how important it is. At the same time, we have experienced in our region how many institutions – the fire brigades, the Red Cross and others – provide rapid and professional assistance with thousands of volunteers when disasters occur. However, the range of these bets is becoming ever larger and more diverse. More and more professionalism is expected by the volunteers, but also required. The fire brigades – which we have heard today – have long since ceased to be fire fighters. The Red Cross has a professional disaster intervention team that helps people on site professionally. I believe – and I am very pleased with all the speeches that go in this direction – that we must also deal with this complexity at the political level and adapt and support the financial framework for these institutions. I assume that in the autumn negotiations on the double budget 2009/2010 we will deal with and take this into account, because these voluntary people also deserve that we work for them. For me, it is always impressive that despite everything, despite all globalisation, we come together in times of disaster and help together, which also reflects the value of our society. These thousands of volunteers are a large part of this value.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21295	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr with 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21318	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! “Emma”, “Kyrill” and Co – as they all call – have been very visible predictions of climate change for the Austrians, which, I believe, have awakened awareness, awareness of the fact that such natural disasters, such exceptional weather events over time, with increasing climate change are becoming more frequent and more violent. And such measures that we are taking through the disaster fund are important measures to deal with the consequences in order to help people. But they can only be part of a bundle, after help is end-of-pipe policy, which is also necessary, which unfortunately will also be necessary even longer, but it can only be a complement to a forward-looking climate policy. The Secretary of State has already pointed out the measures against climate warming, for example by means of the Climate and Energy Funds; there are also some other, no questions. These will become increasingly important. It will become increasingly important to make a noticeable Austrian contribution to the fact that on average, the global temperatures on the surface warm up by no more than 2 degrees Celsius. Then we will probably survive this quite unharmed. But despite all this, it will be necessary not only to do and pay for these measures now for CO2 reduction, but also to do something like adaptation research. It is obvious that even if we manage to stabilize the temperature warming to 2 degrees Celsius, there will be a lot of changes in the very sensitive alpine area. There will be changes in avalanche protection, in the behaviour of floodwaters. The protection function of the forest will also change, only because of another composition of the forest to be expected. And all of this must be measures that we take to prevent, on the one hand, disasters to the extent and to the extent, and on the other hand, health systems, social systems, protection systems must be easily adapted to a changed climate. I think that the whole debate shows once again that it really makes sense to take measures to protect climate, especially domestically, and above all to put them here. Of course, it will also be necessary to spend money on other measures and to manage CO2 reduction through certificates for this first calculation period, in which we are in the middle of it. But truly sustainable policies can only be carried out if we reduce our own CO2 base in the country, if we also carry out value creation here, generate jobs, provide know-how and develop further. I think that we will have to place much more emphasis on this part of politics in the future. If we have to pay punishment for not reaching a Kyoto goal, it will also be a lot of money, but we will not be able to choose what happens to this money. If we invest meaningfully here, we can influence this very well. There are, as I mean, a lot of intelligent possibilities for this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21355	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21377	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The revision of the disaster fund law six which we are now doing is, as I believe, a very essential condition for the rapid provision of assistance. Rapid help is needed and is essential when a disaster occurs – in this case a storm – and within ten minutes, as with us in the district of Braunau, entire strips of land are destroyed and not only country lines in the sense of forest, but entire existences. We have been closed down, houses have been covered, houses have been completely destroyed, power lines have been destroyed. So that means – it has already been said today – firearms, volunteer assistants have not only worked for days, but for weeks to eliminate the damage in a way. Mr State Secretary, you have made it clear that more money will be made available to the fire brigades in the future. My request is also, perhaps it is possible to sit with the firemen on a round table and talk to them about what still moves firemen in addition to money in such catastrophic operations, where they always give help to the people who are in the greatest need. The Minister of Finance has at least promised in the Committee that discussions with the fire brigades will take place in the medium term on the possibility that, in addition to the classic tasks that the fire brigades have, it will also be possible to provide for tasks which suddenly break in on them. In this sense, like my previous speakers, I would like to thank all the forces for helping the neighbor. That is important, as I mean, and that is what the whole of Parliament stands for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21416	A second time has now been reported by Mr Jakob Auermit, Member of Parliament. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21440	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not wish to contradict Mr Krainer – for which I appreciate him too much – but would like to add his comments. Mr Krainer rightly pointed out that it might be possible to look at the federal side, if it were necessary, especially as regards those areas where it is problematic in terms of building permission and so on. I spoke for the reason that I would not like to leave this accusation with the mayors, because in Upper Austria, spatial planning is allowed only with the permission of the country, the country supervision. In addition, land use and spatial planning are a matter of the respective municipal council. It is therefore not possible for a mayor alone to approve something that does not belong to him, but only where the authorisation is available, the penalty of the country is also given. Thirdly, this would also be unfair to Mr Gaßner, who was dramatically affected in his community in 2002, if one said that there had been a mayor's approval everywhere, and that is why this damage has been done. Now maybe one more request, and this applies to all of us. I constantly experience that in a community of EIAs, the mandates of the other political groups demand that such views be given. In a SPÖ-led community, it is in turn the previously mentioned political dissidents. We should all think about whether dedication should not be a priority rather than a policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21480	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore vote on the draft law in 479 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts of the bill concerned by this amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including title and receipt, in the version of the Government's proposal. Mr Sanger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment on Rule 1 Z2, and I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I am immediately voting on Article 1 Z 2 of the draft law as amended by the Government's proposal, and I am asking those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this, to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on tax evasion of long-term damage to forest farmers and other disasters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and rejected. [[19:17:24]] 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (452 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Investment Fund Act, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act and the Capital Market Act (514 d.b.) 9. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Insurance Supervision Act (515 d.a.) 10. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 674/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues A federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, the EU Source Tax Act and the Federal Tax Code (516 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21596	We now come to points 8 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann with 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21623	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Yes, three materials are available here for decision-making. The first is the Investment Fund Act and others, which is about implementing an EU implementing directive. I must say that I have tried very hard not only to read this law but also to understand it and to make myself an opinion on this law, but I have found it to be one of those laws, which obviously can only be understood by the fund specialists themselves, but not by Members who have to be found on it. The objective of the implementation of this Directive is, on the one hand, to improve the competitiveness of the Austrian investment funds, but on the other hand also in the production of legal clarity, transparency. When I looked closely at this law, I noticed that Luxembourg was always used as a benchmark. And I asked myself, Why is the objective that Austria as a fund location should have the same competitive conditions as Luxembourg? Isn’t there a “Race to the Bottom” taking place here? That is the question to which the draft has not actually given me an answer. The issue of investor protection seemed less problematic to me in this context, but it is not a question of small investors, but primarily of institutional investors, but of large investors in the second line, but rather of exceptional investors, the threshold is at €250 000 per natural person. However, I have only read in the explanatory remarks that investor communities are excluded. I asked myself why these investor communities or this clarification about the image of investor communities were not also written into the law itself. As far as the prospectus is concerned, they can also be presented in English. It has been shown lately that there are problems with prospectuses; they are known to increase the process risk. Now, of course, the big funds need not be very sorry about the risk of the process, but I would also like to place the ferry on other brochures, which sometimes exist in English and where very likely small investors are affected, and there it is very difficult. This does not concern this law, but of course it concerns other cases, where it is very likely that small investors will be protected, for example, Meinl European Land. Those who have ever made the effort to read brochures from Meinl European Land will have found that they are not only very extensive, but also very complicated. This means that, at least when it comes to small investors, efforts should be strengthened, the content of the prospectuses and also the warnings contained therein would be much clearer, than is the case now, to apply to small investors, and this is also true in German. I am not clear - I am now putting it together - whether the objectives to be achieved by the implementation of this directive are actually being achieved. Therefore, a No on the implementation of this EU Directive! I also found the second matter, the §-27 application to change the provisions of the variation. I wonder why this was so suddenly and overnight submitted to a request from the insurance industry without a review process. What's behind that? Why has this become so suddenly necessary? . This has also become clear to me neither in committee nor through other informants I have contacted. The issue with the change provisions in the consolidated balance sheet is that the implementation of Solvency II would in any case correct the matter. Therefore, the questions: Why not wait for it? And why not have a legislative review where the information could have been exchanged better than in the short way and discuss whether this regulation, as it is now available here, is actually useful? I see less problematic the new system of credit/last-scripts in the calculation of the capital income tax on unit interest rates. In fact, this is only a transfer of previous practice to the law. We will give our consent to this change. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21663	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21695	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the highly committed eight-hour EU reform debate in interlocutory discussions, I take a very short look at my remarks. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – Mr Kogler would like to eat his apple at last, Mr Oillinger! I only mention two priorities. The first point is the §-27 proposal by my colleague Jan Krainer and I, through which we want to eliminate and eliminate a competitive disadvantage at the economic location of Austria, in terms of the insurance industry, which is the disadvantage that, because of our very strict accounting rules in Austria, the fluctuations in the amount of insurance can not be expected to be capitalised. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] This has resulted in some large insurance companies seriously considering whether to move their headquarters to Pressburg or Prague because they did not have this disadvantage there. [[Abg. Oils: Despite the low cooks?]] Of course, we do not want these companies to be lost to our economies, so we will now adopt a regulation which is the same in most other European countries, namely: The change-back is considered to be equity. [[Abg. Oillingers: We have the low cook! It's lower than in...!]] The second is the own-initiative request from Mr Krainer and me, with which we want to eliminate a gap in the taxation of Kest, a gap that has arisen from the fact that the Administrative Court has removed the previous practice of the credit/last-script system in the event of the transfer of residence of a Kest-compulsory person. This gap will be filled out because we do not want our budget to escape parts of the KESt. I would ask you to approve both of these points.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21764	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21785	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The law itself is unspectacular; I think that does not necessarily require a lot to be said. The reference to Luxembourg may well be worth a discussion that we still have to hold in the future; Karl Ollinger in this discussion, I think, is on board. It is essentially also about the fact that we are discussing something in connection with the MiFiG. When we talk about the capital market, this is certainly also an adequate approach, where the process was quite a good improvement, which we then chose for the turn of the year. Finally, it is also a question of clarifying how we stand on the issue of venture capital, capital measures for young businesses, for companies in innovative areas that may not otherwise exist. And in this context, of course, Luxembourg is also a competition, a competition issue. Now, of course, the question is always: Should there be this development down, how do we stand? On the other hand, of course, we also want to use this funding instrument for these companies in a very efficient way. I think we have a very interesting discussion here. The fact that we are opening up the market for natural persons here, I think, is unproblematic, that the minimum investment sum is €250 000, yes, I believe that this is not the one that needs to be protected in particular, but that it is the person who enters the market with appropriate information, and the information standard is also increased by this law. I believe that transparency, information and control measures are essential for the capital market. That is why much of what we now decide is different from what has not been done so well in the past. If, for example, I think that a Mr. Traumüller worked as a state commissioner in the Meinl Bank and at the same time was sitting in the FMA – even though it was only half a year – this is an intolerable situation for the capital market. [[Abg. Oillinger: Very sympathetic!]] [[Abg. Oils: This has advantages! Synergistic effects!]] There is also a capital market representative Schenz, who has actually not said anything about the entire scandalous development of Meinl. There is now also the MIP, I have just heard – thank you also read from my colleague Krainer’s computer – a message that has also been bought back there. I want to know: What course? [[Abg. Krainer: 8,84! Clearly above the market value!]] Who pays the values here? – We also know from the other areas that the small shareholders came here quite massively to the handcushion. You have to look at that. That the capital market officer Schenz, of whom I think it would be a good act if he were no longer a capital market officer, has not touched in the entire scandalous Meinl-Causa until now, is significant. It is also significant that, in the meantime, the Vienna Commercial Court with a temporary order... – Mr Oellinger informed in the small circle that a conviction had taken place and that there were clearly all the accusations raised in a somewhat informed public. So if Mr. Schenz here in the past has shoved his nose over the fact that he was asked to do what was actually the minimum measure of what he should do, namely to see that the capital market remains undamaged, he has firmly shown in the Causa Meinl that he does not do so. That should also have consequences. Yes to a functional capital market, but, of course, it must not only remain with confessions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21851	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21873	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I think I can take a short look at my remarks. We will be voting on Agenda items 8, 9 and 10, because item 8 is the implementation of an EU directive. Today's decision of the EU Reform Treaty ratification will mean that this will no longer be necessary in the foreseeable future, for then we will receive a letter from Brussels to take note of: Please be informed and implemented. The Insurance Supervision Act is the elimination of a competitive disadvantage for Austrian insurance companies. We think it's right that this has been removed. As has already been said, we will vote in favour of Agenda items 8, 9 and 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21903	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21924	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We will also give our consent to this Investment Fund Act, although the deadline has not been respected for the 27a application, which is what the information is about. But it is quite clear that the changeover provision is taken as an equity allocation and thus the competitive disadvantage is removed. To the Investment Fund Act, perhaps the note that everything that serves to give investors more transparency, to protect investors is an agreeable measure. On the other hand, it must be mentioned again and again that there is a risk, as in all investment forms, and above all the English language presents a risk, because there are interpretations in English which are not present in this expression in the German language. However, on these agenda items I also have a motion for a resolution by Mrs Ursula Haubner, Mr Josef Bucher, Mr Ing. Introduce Peter Westenthalerand colleagues with regard to a tax advantage for donations. It is in principle true that voluntary grants in Austria are not tax deductible, except for research tasks for operational purposes. It has been discussed in Austria for many years, whether to make social contributions or other donations tax deductible. To this end, there is a very good study by the former Federal Minister's head, which comes to the conclusion that the maximum tax loss would be 48 million, but an additional welfare profit in Austria is reaching 2.5 percent for the private sector and 8.5 percent for the companies, i.e. a huge increase in donations and a compensation for this loss of tax within five years. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22000	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported. It is also in a context of content and is therefore also negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22079	The next item is Mr Jakob Auermit's speech 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22103	Mr State Secretary! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I maintain the Investment Fund Act: Investor protection remains preserved, legal clarity and transparency for investors are increased, and that is crucial. It is also crucial as regards the competitiveness of Austrian investment funds, while safeguarding investor protection. There is a clear improvement here and it is therefore possible to maintain the adaptation of the Austrian Investment Fund Act to the other EEA countries and the competitiveness of Austrian funds. To the Insurance Supervision Act: In order to calculate the adjusted own resources in the consolidated financial statements, according to the international accounting rules the changeover is forced to subtracte. This has been a decisive disadvantage so far. It is better, I think, that the Austrian headquarters of insurance companies in Austria remain. They thus receive jobs and pay taxes in Austria. We are happy to agree to these points.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22143	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22164	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I would just like to say to Mr Rossmann that in the interests of small investors protection, of course, German language will be used in the future, but that certain certificates from the authorities – this is very important: the authorities! – will also be written in English. Therefore, there is no restriction on investor protection here. The Investment Fund Act, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act and the Capital Market Act actually serve to strengthen the competitiveness of Austrian companies. That is why, I believe, we are also of the unanimous opinion that these laws should be approved. It is guaranteed to protect investors, and above all, this law also creates a guarantee of interpretation in Community law – I believe – is a very important area for cross-border action and ultimately serves to implement the EU directives that we have to implement. Overall, I believe, it can be found that a minimum investment amount of €250 000 actually gives a certain generosity, because, so to speak, the sum alone brings a certain amount of protection. In addition, I believe that we still have to deal with some issues in the capital market, such as private equity, hedge funds and all these new forms of financing, which appear to be uncontrollably dangerous, but which are implemented and regulated at European level, can also contribute a lot to replacing those equity which cannot be raised by the respective owners. I therefore believe that it should be seen not only from the point of view of danger, but also as an opportunity to open up new financing opportunities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22200	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22222	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Investment Fund Act follows a European adjustment aimed at achieving greater transparency, greater protection for investors, greater legal certainty and greater clarity for a uniform interpretation, which will undoubtedly serve to improve comparability and will also lead to fairer competition. The novelle supports product diversity, which will undoubtedly benefit the consumer in connection with transparency and legal clarity, as well as secure legal frameworks for the smooth functioning of the capital market and promote public confidence. Trust can also strengthen investment, which in turn improve competitiveness and increase value added. This development, together with procedural simplifications, which also allow reliefs, is also expected to have positive effects on employment. Negotiations include the amendment to the Insurance Supervision Act and Income Tax Act, which aims at improving the information on own resources and the recovery of the KEST. Ladies and gentlemen, all in all, these are useful improvements in the sense of strengthening the Austrian capital market and the Austrian savers and investors we like to support.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22264	We have a vote in 6 minutes, but we are unable to decide in the current number. I would ask the folders to ask other Members to come to the meeting room. Next, I shall grant Mr Magistrate's power. Ikrath the word. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22291	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! My first comment is to the Investment Fund Act. I am particularly grateful to the officials of the Ministry of Finance and the Secretary of State for implementing a very directive-oriented transposition into the Investment Fund Act. This means that we support our economic location in the sense of maximisation and properly refrain from any gold plating. This is to be removed, because unfortunately it is not the rule. The second thing to say – also to the address of the Secretary of State: We should not, on the one hand, rightly motivate investments in investment funds, should not properly support investment funds so that they can act more competitively internationally, as we do now, but then, as a result, with a missing asset tax, take away some of their risk premium from those investors who invest their modest assets in investment funds. There you should still think about whether this is the final conclusion of wisdom. A note on the strengthening of the competition of insurances by including the changeover requirement in the presentation of equity. This was also overdue because it ensures and strengthens the competitiveness of our very successful international insurance companies and preserves and increases jobs in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22322	Mr Sonnberger is next speaker, for 2 minutes. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22343	Madam President, Mr State Secretary! High house! In the present case, it is a change to the Income Tax Act, namely the closure of tax gaps on the one hand, and the legal definition of an already functioning practice on the other. If Unlimited Taxable persons move abroad, have debt securities at home or abroad, and these interest income will only be due later, the tax law will be lost until they move. We want to close this tax gap today. The However, the taxable person shall have the possibility, upon request, to move the maturity to the date of the expected actual inflow. In the case of index papers in particular, a lower capital income tax may arise here later. Furthermore, the credit-lastschrift system is to receive a legal basis in the case of the settlement of unit interest rates in the course of the capital income tax settlement. The VwGH has argued that the previous practice, which has proven itself to be good, does not find legal coverage, and therefore we do so today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22379	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Iron gift. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22401	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! This item on the agenda is a debate on a security whose importance is attached to the end: the zero coupon bond. Taxation has proved itself in practice, although it is now necessary for a novel to make the whole thing more stable. The measure is necessary in order to react quickly so that banks do not need to change their computer. The zero coupon bond... – zero coupon bond. [[Abg. Großruck: What's that name?]] Zero-Bond, colleague. – The zero coupon bond is, of course, less interesting, because investors achieve less returns in times of low interest rates, while it would be quite interesting for issuers because they can drag back interest payments. So that a biter mood comes in: Also, terms that are a little more sexy sometimes have their place in securities law. As you probably all know, there is also the possibility of coupon stripping at Zero Bonds, and through this coupon stripping it is such that the classic zero coupon bond suffers a bit of attractiveness. Currently, €300 million of federal bonds are stripping through the international capital market. In short – the hall fills well slowly; we are enough –: [[Rejoicing]] [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: We're enough!]] So the times for the zero coupon bond are not particularly good, but this should not worry us any more, because this security is moving interest payments so much into the future that the next generation has to pay for it, and it is no longer in the sense of our current fiscal mentality that this should be so. Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22454	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Investment Fund Act, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act and the Capital Market Act, including title and receipt (452 d.b.).). I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign on this matter. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Insurance Supervision Act, including title and receipt (515 d.b.). I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give them a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the EU Source Tax Act and the Federal Tax Code, including title and receipt (516 d.e.c.). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also ask the ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their approval to this draft at third reading, to give a sign. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleagues, on the amendment of the Income Tax Act on the deductibility of donations for social purposes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[19:47:13]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 652/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Wolfgang Großruck, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Consular Fees Act 1992 (517 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (450 d.a._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Albania on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes and the prevention of tax evasion with the Protocol (518 d.a.) 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (461, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Poland amending ==References== January 2004 in Vienna signed agreements to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes (519 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22604	We now come to points 11 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Arbitrator. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22631	Madam President, Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Soon a few remarks on this novel of the Consular Fee Act. It is about the fact that, when a child comes into the world, the necessary documents and writings are normally free of charge until the second birthday of this child, without the payment of stamp fees and other fees, i.e. documents such as birth certificates, citizenship certificates and travel documents. However, it is not so if these documents are issued abroad. As the Consular Fees Act has just so far applied fees, and it would be useful to adjust them, so it is as if the documents were to be issued domestically and no fees would be charged. I therefore think that this novelle is very good, and it would also be in the interests of those concerned if they were to be abandoned or hours before the law enters into force. The second point I would like to address very briefly is the double taxation agreement with Albania, which we are discussing here today. It is important in this respect because there has not been a rule at present. This double taxation agreement sets out a rule that corresponds to the OECD pattern agreement. However, this agreement is also an important step towards strengthening Austria's economic relations with Albania and thus also the stability of both Albania and the Balkans. I therefore believe it is not only an economic and financial right and important thing, but also an important contribution to the stability and development of the Balkans in the foreign policy sense. I am pleased that the agreement has already been reached in the Committee on Legal Affairs and I hope that it will find the necessary majority here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22671	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22693	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! As regards the revision of the double taxation agreement on the one hand, but in particular the new double taxation agreement with Albania, I can actually agree with the statements made by my previous speaker Andreas Schieder. It is an agreement that is significant in that it reflects improved economic relations between Austria and Albania. It offers Austria opportunities as a target country for investments by foreign companies on the one hand, but, on the other hand, it also offers opportunities for investment by Austrian investors in Albania on the other hand. In this respect, this is a progress which is very welcome in this regard. Of course, very welcome is also the equalisation of children born domestically with children born abroad as regards the exemption of fees at birth, as it is now reflected in the revision of the Consular Fees Act. One question remains, however, with regard to the double taxation agreement from the Financial Committee which I have sent to the Secretary of State. We have discussed the termination of the double taxation agreement in connection with the expiry of the inheritance and gift tax. That's where he answered me that there's a solution here. At the same time, however, I have also asked a question as to how the expiry of the inheritance and gift tax and the attempt to repair the gaps resulting from it is in the context of the draft gift notification law, which has now been assessed. There is one point – there are several points, but I just want to take one point out here – which has already made me a bit speechless, namely that private foundations should be further favoured by tax. This draft provides that assets entered into the Foundation, provided that it is introduced after the expiry of the Heritage and Tax Grant Act, are tax-free if it is later applied to the beneficiary. This is actually the only disadvantage with which the tax privileges in the Foundation have been established so far. This is completely incomprehensible to me. In this way, private foundations are privileged to the capital companies that do not have this privilege and do not enjoy it. If this draft is actually to become law, then a tax on capital assets is taxed, which is parked tax-free in the foundations. This would make it very clear who is persuasive here and whose interests are represented, namely the foundation lobbyists in the service of the super-rich of this country. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22739	The next speaker is Mr Weinzinger with a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22761	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rossmann, you have put all of this to a very good conclusion, and your previous speaker has also made it a great deal of point, and I would also like to point it out. Of course, we are in favour of this exemption from the fees also applicable to children born abroad. The only thing that annoys me a little about this is that one has just come up with it and not when changing this stock originally already that one has not immediately changed this fee right accordingly. - That's one. Second: The Consular Fees Act should have been amended immediately. Obviously, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs – or as she calls herself today – did not come upon Mrs. Foreign Minister in time. It should actually be there, because all three points that we are dealing with here are points that concern the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She's not here. But we will nevertheless agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22788	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22809	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! These three agenda items have been sufficiently set out and commented on. As in the Committee, we will give our assent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22834	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22855	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we too agree to make this clear once. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] However, I've made myself smart: What are these charges at the birth of a child? – The first thing a child needs is the birth certificate. It is still not free of charge, for only the federal fees have been removed, but not the part of this fee that remains with the municipality: 8,70 €. The municipality has a share of €2.10. – Mr Großruck is generous, he does not demand it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Mr Grossruck, however, you also know the decree stating that the communities are obliged to cancel all fees, otherwise the allocations of needs will be reduced. It's not much, but you have to ask for a little more honesty! The same applies to citizenship certificates. And with the travel documents for the children it is especially nice. They now cost nothing in the first two years. It's easy to leave a fee if you didn't have a job with it, because the work is doing the communities. A final sentence on this fee policy, which is carried out here: Now it has become modern to let the communities become guilty that inflation is so hot because we have so high fees. Yeah, why do we have such high charges? – Because we are stopped by our senior authorities to comply with these minimum fees, otherwise other allocations will be deleted. Mr State Secretary, I believe that we must really consider the municipal finances and the financing of the municipalities and ensure that the communities have sufficient resources in the financial balance. Then we can reduce fees at any time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22905	The next speaker is Mr Kirchgatter. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22926	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary Christoph Matznetter! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Albania, I would like to mention two examples of many, in this case from Upper Austria, from my federal country, which show how meaningful this agreement is. On the one hand, I would like to point out the great economic delegation of the city of Linz, which was able to establish very interesting contacts. On the other hand, I want the city. Call it something that started working with the city of Durres ten years ago, i.e. a decade ago. Durres is the largest port city in Albania with about 130 000 inhabitants. These activities for the benefit of both sides include culture, social and economic activities. This cooperation – and I would like to stress this in particular – opens up new opportunities for our small and medium-sized enterprises, new opportunities. This agreement is in line with the OECD's principles. This Agreement introduces the legal conditions for the establishment of further economic relations and for the deepening of existing ones. I wish the Albanians, the Austrian companies, their employees much success. On the basis of this agreement, I expect a positive form of cooperation between the two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22962	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22984	Madam President. I would just like to focus briefly on two points that have been put here on the verge of the debate. First: Mr Rossmann, the gift notification law is not yet the subject of the treatment here. There is a draft assessment sent by the Federal Minister for Finance, who has not yet been voted on and has not yet been decided in the Council of Ministers. Secondly, The assessment period ends on 11. ==References====External links== Let us look at what the opinions look like. Thirdly, If you address the so-called mouse trap effect, i.e. the effect that spent fund capital is deliberately to be recovered only with a high tax, because otherwise the foundation has exclusive privileges, I can remind Mr Rossmann that, if the law is so, there is a foundation tax with a further 5 percent, which is no longer available in all other grants. To say in this sense that there would be a privilege for the Foundation alone would be objective and objectively incorrect. As regards the second question raised by Mr Gaßner: This is, of course, right. What do we have if we take measures at the federal level when it is difficult for the municipalities to understand similar measures, because there is de facto the pressure on the increase in fees in the debate with their own federal state? I ask you to understand that the federal government cannot lead its financial compensatory negotiations, so to speak, on behalf of the municipalities against the countries. What we can do is take into account the special financial tension to ensure that resources are available under the financial compensation scheme. We have done this in this financial compensation. I can remind you that this year would still be the old financial compensation. There are a total of € 53 million more for the municipalities. That's an amount of over 700 million schilling. This increases from the third year, now by more than 100 million to 156 million euros. These are important financial resources for the communities. We strive to live up to this universal service function. But as you yourself know, The problem between countries and communities is quite openly the following: Here you have to have the debate with each other as mayor with your national finance officer, with your country captain, and say: This is not the case if the funds provided for the congregation do not arrive there. – However, the Federation cannot solve this problem. I wanted to remind you of this objection at this point. We can try to do something. But we cannot solve this part of the dispute. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23032	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Consular Fees Act 1992, together with the title and receipt in 517 d.b. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Here again, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading, for a sign of approval. – This was adopted unanimously at third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty, agreements with the Republic of Albania to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth and to prevent the circumvention of taxes and taxes in 450 d.b. the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty, the protocol with the Republic of Poland to amend the Protocol on 13 March. In January 2004 in Vienna, agreements were signed to avoid double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets in 461 d.a. the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give a sign on this matter. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:04:44]] 14. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report (III-103 D.B.) on its activities in 2006, series Federal Republic of Germany 2007/16 (493 d.a.) 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-106 p.b.) of the Court of Auditors on the outcome of its survey of the average income of the additional benefits for pensions in the public sector of the Federal Republic of Germany in 2005 and 2006 (492 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23123	We now come to points 14 and 15 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mr Dr. Kräube. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23151	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. We debated the income report at the last meeting. Depending on the temperament, most of the members of the committee were then unshakably shaken, because the President presented us with a compact form of income development in various areas. As far as the ÖBB is concerned, the ÖBB holding with plus 41.65 percent, the ÖBB service with plus 84.37 percent, the ÖBB real estate with plus 45.10 percent and so on. How did the ÖBB react to the criticism, ladies and gentlemen? – You said more or less disillusioned: Well, these are premiums from the previous year, Mr Kukacka. And the whole excitement is absolutely essential. – But then it turned out that the premiums were actually created by deposit resolution and that €60 million were dissolved – to a good extent for this purpose. And somehow the oven is out. Such conditions as they are found there simply have to be stopped! That's not a question at all. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But there has not been any change under Faymann, Mr Cot. The Treaties are still in place!]] – These are the old contracts you have concluded with Mr Gorbach, and we now have to fight with them. Then Mr Kukacka and Mr Gahr will come out and say that good and successful managers must be paid well. – That’s right, I fully agree. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You have to tell Minister Faymann!]] However: There are speculation losses at an altitude that is stunning, Court of Auditors criticism that is destructive, no matter where the Court of Auditors looks at the ÖBB, scandals, affairs and so on. And against these growths there is only one method, ladies and gentlemen: This is transparency! It must finally be on the table who gets something. How do the gagen put together? What are fixed contributions and amounts? What are variable things? – The Corporate Governance Code defines enough that is taken over – no question at all. And, of course, that should also be listed by name. The Constitutional Court held that this was not necessary and appropriate in 2003. However, I must say that in the meantime certain gages are not necessary and appropriate. I therefore believe that it is urgently necessary to change that. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: When is the Minister Faymann finally doing this?]] – I think we will do this together, Mr Kukacka, when the constitutional reform is finalized before the summer. In reality, the managers are also responsible for this. The Management Club has made a survey. 74 percent of managers are themselves in favour of their Gagen being published. There's nothing against good gags for good managers. Also across the parties there are, in fact, open doors that we will run into – whether the Secretary of State is Matznetter, whether the head of the Chamber of Commerce is Leitl. There are a lot of votes that consider this to be useful. I think that's just necessary. We politicians are transparent; it is to be read everywhere we deserve. That is also true, it is ultimately tax money. And it is not at all obvious that this should not be the case in public enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by expressing my thanks to the Court of Auditors. The report has been further developed, is a really great work in terms of income. Mr President Moser will certainly bring us a few words about the spectacular successes in the international field, INTOSAI, which Austria is providing as the office of this important global organization. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23217	The next speaker is Mr Gahr, who has three minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23238	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues of herbs have already shown a number of placards of content. I can only confirm that. It is true that 316 companies and 175 000 employees are affected in this Court of Auditors report. These are central companies such as the ÖBB, the post office, the e-economics, the ÖBf, the Austrian Airlines and so on, and of course there is a certain role model for these management companies. I believe that the Court of Auditors has clearly shown that there is a need for more transparency and more insight here. In fact, we agreed in the Committee that in the course of the Constitutional Reform, we will endeavour to ensure that there will be a detailed presentation of basic salaries and performance tangents in the future. From my point of view, two basic messages, or two key statements, show that the incomes in the management sector have increased exorbitantly, especially in the railway that has been drawn out here, and that the incomes of the lower levels of incomes are quite reasonable, but that the salary shears continue to disperse. ÖBB has an average income increase of 41.7 percent in the Board of Directors, whereas employees even have income losses. The E-Economie is also in the leading field. As the Court of Auditors has noted, the ÖBB as a company, which needs approximately €4 billion each year, has exorbitant expenses in the supplementary fees in the pension area, and I believe that the Court of Auditors should look a little closer into performance and consideration. There is therefore a need for action, not only with the ÖBB, but also with some other companies. At the Austrian Airlines, for example, the board of directors has a salary of € 681,000. There are also 16 board seats at the ORF. I believe that so many things we have to be able to explain, and that is where we have to take action in political responsibility. I am grateful to the Court of Auditors for the professional presentation in the Committee and for having a great overview and for being able to understand that we will work together to ensure that there is more transparency. The topic of transparency, which accompanies all of us daily in political life, We want to know about the Court of Auditors in the future. We will always demand that. In this sense, I hope that the next income report will provide more transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23287	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Green forest. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23308	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I would like to focus on the Court of Auditors' report on the Research and Technology Development Council. I find the Court of Auditors' analysis very positive, interesting and also remarkable in that it represents the Council as an important facet in a very kaleidoscope-like image of the fragmented research landscape and also criticises it. This is very important, because it is only in this way that one can assess the activities, the scope for action, the possibilities of the Council in a fair manner in the context of this environment. It is criticised what has been criticised forever, namely that not only a ministry manages research, plans strategies and collects data, but that there are several actors. Of course, Federal Minister Hahn is mainly fundamental research. It must not be forgotten, however, that applied research also exists at universities. Secondly, Federal Minister Faymann is responsible for mainly economic research and not much of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour under Bartenstein. There is a central role to play in the financial sector, which the Council has also called for output indicators, and I will discuss them later. It is interesting, however, how this Council is to be composed. It belongs to BMVIT. Eight people are ordered each, four by Hahn and four by Faymann, in the peaceful or non-peaceful Grand Coalition proportion. The Council notes very well and correctly that originally basic and applied research was represented in a certain balance, also with two foreign experts, which is good for an internationality that is desired, but in the second period four representatives of the large industry and only more than two representatives of the universities and only one foreign member were inside. This is not insanely international in itself, nor is it insanely good and endangering the balance. I am pleased when the Court of Auditors also notes this. But it is also interesting what the Court of Auditors writes about how the first tranche of the offensive funds was awarded. The last principle of assessing scientific projects, whether applied or basic research, is excellence. That's what everyone says, that's what everyone believes. You say, or you want to hope. See, it's not like that! An interministerial working group was set up, especially for information and communication technology. These were not infinitely millions of euros, but they were awarded according to quotas: 44 per cent for Faymann, 34 per cent for Hahn and 22 or 21 per cent for Bartenstein. These funds have been allocated according to defined quotas! What's the Council gonna do? Does this have a role to play in excellence? Another mistake is – and it scares me the most – that the Ministry of Finance believes that what is not quite unwarranted is that one must now be able to say as a council: What's the tip tomorrow? What has a lever effect today? What's a return on the day after tomorrow? Literally, milestones, output indicators are required. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There's an output already!]] This is not possible in basic research. I'm telling you, there's really a lot left to chance, a lot. The intelligent design may have invented Cardinal Schönborn, but it does not exist in nature. This does not exist in the Council or in the Government, namely that you know exactly what is coming out of it. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But there is always an output!]] It's driven by curiosity. Most of the time in basic research is spent searching. I don't want to be childish, but I have to say: Easter is not long ago, and the moment I find an Easter egg is short, you can evaluate it, but the time of search must not be turned under the carpet. That's something very essential. Another thing: The Council also had to draw up a national research strategy. We Greens have called for – and this was well received by the Council – that Parliament should already speak with us here. National research strategy, a national research and strategy plan cannot be passed by two ministers each with four appointed Council members. The Council has discussed well with us in advance, and I think we should continue to do so. It is also in the interests of the Court of Auditors that this transparency exists. In conclusion: We have a diversification, almost an inflation of councils. There is the University Conference, the University Conference, the Science Council, the Council for Research and Technology Development and many other Councils. And here the Court of Auditors says that it would be a congregation, a pooling of all individual interests necessary for a great strategy. The Council has learned a lot, but is certainly not flawless and has to be classified into a system that represents the interest of the whole better than it has been made fairly possible in the Council so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23358	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23379	Madam President. Mr President, Dr. Moser and team! We were already involved in the committee by the Gagen that you have revealed to us there. That's why today's distress is already a little digested and smoked. But what the Court of Auditors presented to us during the last committee meeting has actually affected us all. The incredibly high salaries and, above all, the increases in salaries between 2005 and 2006, these increases to an incredibly large extent were a signal to all of us that there is the highest need for action. Mr President, you presented us with an income report months ago that we could see that the average income of the Austrians in the Median is €21,000. We know from the state-owned industry that the board members earn an average of € 149 000. A comparison: 21 000 € on average the normal Austrians, 149 000 € the board members. You don't have to interpret very much. And far from it and strikingly, some companies with huge management responsibilities are. So there is a real urgent need for action. What's going on? – The one side is to disclose this. This has been made known to the media over and over again for years, but it has not done anything. I have read an interview with Dr. Raidl in this context in order to perhaps add something or other to this issue, and it is reasonable for the Supervisory Board to decide on these high gages, then it is Hold on. Dr. Raidl says how much managers deserve is only a matter of the respective Supervisory Board. But I would ask myself why the Republic does not assume responsibility here and does not simply solve supervisory councils that approve such gages at the expense of the Republic. I believe that the minimum thing that needs to be done would be to send a signal by withdrawing confidence from these supervisory councils, because it is not possible to justify what is happening in these areas. Mr. Raidl goes on to say that there have to be boundaries, and for example he also addresses stock options that he no longer finds to be contemporary, and says that he rejects such things because the temptation for managers is too great to manipulate the balance sheet or the price development. He literally says: I am strictly opposed to stock options for top managers! This is also a point that we should necessarily discuss and discuss, because the part of the Gagen is to a lesser part of the basic relation, as we have seen now, and that much higher part may be share options, which one gets discounted, such as the OMC – which has also been published in the media – where options are issued down and where one has a double profit, on the one hand, because one receives discounted stock options, on the other hand, because then the prices can be pushed up and after a year of retention these shares can also be sold tax-free. You even won three times: After a year's retention period, one has been enormously disillusioned and has even dried up the money at the tax. Such conditions are to be shown! We have expressed to the President of the Court of Auditors the wish that we not only want to be presented in the future, but also to divide these gages, as these gages are put together in their components, because additional light is to be brought into the dark. Under the rule, this was once again a revelation for all of us. And I keep coming to the same conclusion: If it were not for the Court of Auditors, what would it actually look like in this Republic? I really wonder. There is almost no report where I do not have the hair in the committee. I'm really wondering: Where will a responsible person finally be held accountable? In my opinion, the Supervisory Boards should finally be invited to a committee – that would be really interesting – and be consulted about what they think if such huge references are approved or otherwise masked, so that only two or three years later we come up with such reports as are actually being managed. Mr President, I hope that you will continue to be active so that you can present these references, divided into their components in the future, and wish you still much forcefulness and great commitment so that we can move these things together step by step. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23437	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23459	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to refer to item 15 on the agenda for the sittings. It is only so much about the income report on close-to-state enterprises that we also have to think that the gap between employees and board salaries is constantly dispersing and proportionality is weakening. But this is a fact that concerns not only close-to-state companies, but that we generally see in the course of globalisation as a whole. However, I would also like to take up one point, which was gratefully read in your report, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, that there is no really transparent criteria for the distribution of premiums. At least we can expect to know what criteria are applied in public enterprises, where we have a certain right to information, and that we are committed to putting these criteria into practice, because there seems to be still a lot in the dark and there seems to be still confusion as to the success and success criteria to be met. You only hear about head premiums et cetera. However, this is not always in the economic interest of the people or can not always be in our interest, even if we have to a certain extent so-called shareholder value functions. We are very committed to the fact that more criteria are happening in terms of disclosure of criteria, and we want there to be something like corporate governance, an agreement for all close-to-state companies to learn from when the premiums are actually distributed to the board of directors.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23495	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23516	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! I would also like to comment briefly on the income report, which clearly shows the need for action in close-to-state enterprises. If one compares the period 1999 to 2006, it can be found that, while the Court of Auditors has carried out greater control of public undertakings, contrary to employees' salaries, there have been a marked increase in the number of members of the board of directors, while at the same time the number of employees has fallen in the audited undertakings. In 1999 we had 195 286 employees in public enterprises and in 2006 only more than 176 028 employees. In summary, it can be said that many workers have been reduced there, but the number of management posts has increased, equipped with unscathed high contributions. If this trend is not countered, there is a risk that the social balance in Austria is at risk and that society will split very strongly. The following are still in the near future: The Court of Auditors' report sheds light on this from many sides and also shows that net income losses have occurred. But not only in these companies, but in total, we have net income losses. While in 2000, net wages amounted to €1 279, in 2006 they were only €13, so they rose to around €1 300. At the same time, there is a strong growth, especially in the food sector. If you compare this with other countries, you can see that the price is much higher with us. In Germany, for example, prices in the food sector have not increased as high as in the case of us. There is now a recent study by Wifo, which states that the causes of this inflation are probably the strong levels of trade. That means, all the same. More important are all the measures that contribute to the reduction of lower levels of income, and the more important it is, as the Court of Auditors report points out, to ensure that income sheath does not disperse, but is smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23556	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23577	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The Court of Auditors has produced a comprehensive report on the Council of Research and Technology Development, which we are dealing with today. In 2000, the Schüssel Government set up this Council to advise the ministries concerned and to be able to carry out the corresponding coordinations even more efficiently. We all know that innovative products and services are essential for sustainable positive economic development. That is why 2000 has just been decided to raise these public expenditure on research and development accordingly, and the European Union has set the target of 3 percent of GDP for research and development by 2010. Expenditure on research and development in Austria increased from €4 billion – about 1.91 percent of GDP – in 2000 to €6.32 billion in 2006 – which is 2.47 percent of GDP, with an increase of 56.8%. Overall, spending between 2000 and 2006 on financing research and development amounted to around €13.27 billion, i.e. 37.4 percent of total expenditure on research and development. It must also be borne in mind that € 22.2 billion of them have spent the entrepreneurs and enterprises for research and development. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, these additional expenses for research and development of the Austrian economy have done very well. The export rate could be increased from 20 to 52 percent from 2000 to 2006, and this is certainly an immediate effect. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23610	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler with 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23632	Thank you! That's still a threat. [[Abg. Faul: You're right!]] Mr President, Moser! The previous speeches have shown: It was, I believe, not a very happy presidential decision to negotiate the two reports under one, because they have nothing to do with each other at all. I believe that the income report, on which I would like to comment briefly, would have deserved another time on the agenda. Why? Here, of course, it is only – and this is also your legal task – to compare the salaries in the so-called close-to-state establishments – that it will be a better statistical work from time to time, as well as the political-contental statement character – to the average salaries in the enterprises. For the next report, the further improvement of the form of presentation has already been announced. But the statements are already fundamental. It is, in fact, even in the near-state area that the differences are quite significant. You can still argue, that is certainly a question of taste, which criteria of justice you introduce here or not. But one thing is striking, and especially here at the close of the state: that the sheer alone is increasingly dispersing from the average to the top incomes. As is the case with the lower incomes, I have not been so ready now. The fact is, however, that there is a certain possibility of political influence. As we know, it should not go too far, but a few fundamental questions would ask: How did the ÖBB go about – not just because of the expansion of the companies and the resulting even greater expansion of the board posts? What do they do, what do they bring together, and what do they have for contracts? What kind of contracts do they have? As a Parliament, perhaps we should and even must, at least in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, take a serious look at what this is about, because it is not only those who get or register these gigs, as one might say, but also those who conclude these contracts on the other hand for the company and, more indirectly, for the Republic and thus also for our supervision. A previous speaker said it, I think it was Mr Hauser. If not the Court of Auditors' planning were always so laborious and we would have taken time delays again, then – and I announce this for the next time – it will at least be useful and helpful to load exactly the responsible supervisory councils, namely those who were in office and dignity at the time of the conclusion of the contracts, and not any current ones that might make it better anyway. This is necessary if the Court of Auditors is to develop its prophylactic effect, that it really needs to be looked by and reported in Parliament every now and then – on the basis of the Court of Auditors' reports and not because of some Members' thinking. [[Detonatative condolences with representatives of SPÖ]] So that's what I think we'll do in the future. In the field of ÖBB, this can occur faster than one or another, then and where there is something to do with the normal, routine or also special review of these societies. We have also agreed on all the political groups, that we will not forget the contents of this report, which is not art either, because they are public to all, and we should only be quite right to continue working on it here in the House. And so the story is not yet off the table, and that's why I didn't need seven minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23674	The next speaker is Mr Grastaur. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23696	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President Moser! Ladies and gentlemen! I fully emphasize what Mr Kogler has just said. I would like to return to Mr Kräub's comments on the ÖBB references because we are talking about huge percentages and increases here. I say the absolute value: In fact, this is not so bad in itself, I think, including this 84 percent increase. What bothers me crazyly is that the population can't judge this in any way, in any way! People will say that a company that belongs to the state gets around 4 billion grants from the tax pot each year, and then the board of directors order such increases and charges. – That’s a disaster, so it can’t go! Mr Gahr, I hope that you will realize that we are coming to review these contracts, because that is the starting point for all these misdevelopments in the board areas. However, I wanted to talk about another subject, namely administrative and constitutional reform. The Court of Auditors' report on this point and this issue is also on the subject. He rightly points out the deficit and indebtedness policy of the State of Austria, saying: If the government wants to implement its programme and the measures, it is essential to have an administrative and constitutional reform. And I would like to say: If we don't do this, there's no tax reform either. A tax reform can only be paid and financed if there are surpluses in the budget, otherwise we either have to accept or refinance new debts, and we do not want to do so. That is why the Court of Auditors made 206 proposals in its position paper in August 2007, which deal with savings potential and also efficiency and quality improvements. These are 152 proposals concerning the Federal Government and 54 proposals concerning the countries. The main savings potential is, according to the Court of Auditors, in the health sector, in pensions, for example by adapting to ASVG models at the federal government, the country, as well as the ÖBB and in the housing sector. In these two last areas, the Court of Auditors has around € 1 billion of savings potential. According to the Court of Auditors, there are further possibilities to save in the redeployment of the tasks and competences between the federal, state and local authorities, in the reform of the financial constitution, in financial compensation, in medium-term personnel planning, in the administrative procedure, in particular in the field of asylum. And he also recommends reviewing and evaluating the funding system in the whole of Austria. To remember: In 2005, the Federal Government spent €4.2 billion on direct support, and in the last Court of Auditors, we found that these amounts increased significantly more over the next two years than inflation made up. I would ask you, Mr President Moser, to tell us today how many of these 206 proposals are already being implemented and what is still open. I'm afraid it's mostly not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23738	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23759	Madam President. Mr President Moser! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Understandably, the income report has led to strong reactions. The report shows that the Board's incomes increase much more vis-à-vis the overall workforce. Increases in income within one year in the size of a minimum pensioner's annual income are justified by nothing at least in the public sector. The focus of the discussion is, of course, the management salaries of the Austrian Federal Railways, which on average increased by 42 percent from 2002 to 2006. The top-level section of the ÖBB services includes: an increase of more than 84 percent, which naturally leads to a dramatic opening of income shears between the board of directors and employees – a dangerous development that is suitable to influence not only the operating climate but also the climate of society as a whole. It is also not up to those managers to get the highest gages that most employees send to the desert. It will therefore be necessary to link income to criteria: economic success, job development, social benefits and also the relation of income in the enterprise. There is a need for action to bring about a rapid change in the law. The Court of Auditors has already put forward proposals to this effect. It has already been pointed out, in particular, the role of the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Boards, in particular, should be examined and their responsibility and, above all, liability should also be regulated. Finally, I would like to say: In the light of the findings, the ÖBB structural reform of the previous government was undoubtedly no success. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are required to correct this mistake quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23802	Mrs Eder-Gitschthaler is speaking as the next speaker. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23823	Madam President. Mr President, Mr Moser! I too take a short look at the income report. We have heard a lot about this today, with more or less great indignation, for example by Mr Hauser and Mr Kogler, and also in the media and in the Committee, very much about the very high management salaries, such as in the ÖBB, which are the multiple of the Federal Chancellor's annual income. I too and we are for transparency, for information, which is basic content, what premium, what is the target position for which premiums are paid out, what are fixed components of salary, what are variable, what will be added to the pension scheme. In principle, however, this discussion raises the following question again: How much can a manager earn from what an employee deserves? At ÖBB in 2008, we have average annual salaries for employees of €38 000 and the Executive Board of €390 000. And this, of course, also leads to the question: What is the appropriateness of manager salaries? Here, too, ladies and gentlemen, it is true, as elsewhere, that supply and demand will determine the price and that a good professional will cost a little bit. I am here against this envy discussion, but for a transparency that is necessary for all. We need good people who are willing to take responsibility and thus also secure our jobs, and I am in favour of the application of the Corporate Governance Code, as you, Mr President, have suggested on several occasions in the Committee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At this point, Mr President Dr. Moser, thank you again for this comprehensive and very detailed report, including your employees. I think we will have a lot of discussion in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23871	Mr Krist is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23893	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! We certainly do not need managers in public enterprises who pay money so that they can work in these companies, but the appropriateness should already be a bit present, and therefore in my contribution I also address this subject very briefly. The employees, who are always able to feel all the wrong decisions of a board of directors, have to do away with them and therefore always bear the highest risk, have the lowest income increases; this has been shown in this report. The ÖBB Boards, which are de facto held accountable by no one and now already earn a lot of fixed, but also deserved by partially opaque or hard-to-understand variable salary components, got and get more exorbitant in proportion. Really insanity and incredible and also irresponsible! A self-service shop, it seems, where, at least, more transparency and control are urgently needed. It is also increasingly pressing to ask who offers or rejects such contracts at all. Here too, transparency and responsibility would be appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in the field of ÖBB-Holding and the daughters is really remarkable. The report states that up to 84 percent increase in the number of board members and the number of staff in the high-cassing board, but a fall in staff and minimal increases in employees. For us politicians, you know this, ladies and gentlemen, there is the income pyramid, and even for those we can be regularly beaten in the media. And that is why, I believe, it is only right and cheap that a mandatory income transparency of all references and other ‘next noises’ is immediately introduced in particular by managers in public enterprises. The Court of Auditors is the right control body to do so, and Parliament could, with due transparency, significantly better assess the appropriateness of salaries compared to performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23926	Mr Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23947	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! We receive this income report on the average income of the federal government's public economy every two years. In my opinion, this report is particularly interesting from the point of view of politics, and I would like to stress what Mr Kristi mentioned. Our salaries as politicians – whether it is the Federal Chancellor, a clubman or a representative here in this House – can be read to the public several times a year in the daily newspapers, and these our salaries are often critically questioned by the population. We all know these discussions. But if I look at this report and these salaries that are paid in these close-to-state economic areas, we can also stand with fug and right to our salaries – what we are doing anyway – without the reds having to drive us into the face when we see here that up to the triple of the Federal Chancellor's holding comes on board, for example, the ÖBB, the Post, the Association and so on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Now I do not want to focus on whether it is justified that there are incomes that are double or triple that high in close-to-state areas. I am also of the opinion that good managers who face major challenges should also be well deserved. However, I would like to address another point, namely the increase in this area, especially between 2005 and 2006, in the time this report is dealing with, and I am dealing with two points. First: How do increases of up to 84 percent occur? It is in the report that we are talking about annual deferred payments of target-achievement premiums. What exactly is that? What are these premiums for? There is certainly a need for more transparency, a hundred percent. The second point, which is important to me as a staff representative, is the discrepancy between executives and employees in the same company. That's not all right. At KV level, we have qualifications for wages and salaries at around 3 percent, all of which we celebrate as great success, and these boards are about 20, 40 or 80 percent plus. That's why, and that's my conclusion: There is a need for greater transparency and action to prevent such developments in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23993	As the next speaker, Mr Prehauser is speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24014	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Moser for the report, which, however, is only revealing to us on a conditional basis. We know that the previous government from a large society – I am now talking about the Bundesbahnen – has made 18 more or less smaller, from eleven managers has suddenly become 44, and in the end exorbitant salaries have come out. I would be interested in what these increases are – since you know that on average the employees there had no real gains. And: Is it right to assume – or how to hear this from the explanations – that, for example, by resolving reserves, successes have been achieved, which have ultimately led to premium distributions? – If that is the case, you should point this out even more clearly, because this view of things, it may not be. On the other hand, politics intervenes, and a successful company creates additional management posts – and in the end we have problems to represent: the salaries. I'm not someone who wants to sow envy now. I also believe that managers who do something should be paid accordingly. But you should not forget: Without employees, good managers are nothing either. And the fact that you get premiums for decommissioning the staff can't be the goal of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that increases of 84 per cent, if employees do not reach even 2%, must force us to think more carefully and ask the Court of Auditors to include such comparisons in the reports in the future. We'll be easier then. But in the end I would like to hold here: From this point of view of things, one can call the filetization of the Federal Railways by the past government a failure, if not quite negligent.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24062	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24084	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors' current income report says that we are actually very, very generous: We note that taxpayers should not know who in state companies deserves how much. That means, these salaries are public, but none of us should know how high they are. The ORF fees were also increased to our sufferings, and none of us should know how much of them the ORF directors get. I also do not know why the former Green politician Pius Strobl is so reluctant in terms of disclosure of his salary. I can still remember very well how he moved through the countries as a green politician, not just in the Burgenland, and has called for permanent transparency. Now he could actually prove that he's taking his own slogans seriously. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Kickl.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Your green advisor, like many others, is also taking care of the data protection. Astounding things have also happened at the ÖBB: Most of the executive directors received higher salaries than the Federal Chancellor. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High income, on the one hand, and less transparency, on the other, is a mixture that will not benefit us in the future. Where citizens cannot escape, namely at the ORF and at the ÖBB, maximum transparency must prevail. Ladies and gentlemen, so that you don't misunderstand me: I give every director and board of directors his salaries and the premiums. But they must be transparent and comprehensible. If we don't, we'll be driven again soon. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mr President Dr. Moser, and your officials for always putting very detailed reports on us.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24130	Mr Fichtenbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24151	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! An up-to-date scenario prompts me to speak on this point. The overall issue is the control of state finances, their expenditure, the structure of state finances and, finally, the long-term objective of a reform of the administration. I am talking about the establishment of the financial procuratorship. The Financial Procuratorship is an authority that represents a complete anachronism in Europe. The Financial Procuratorship is called upon to represent before courts and authorities of its own motion for a resolution on behalf of the Federal Government in legal disputes. That's a totally superfluous authority. In the This has never been the case in the Federal Republic of Germany. There, lawyers who have still been admitted have provided this representation, which have also paid tax for the normal fee they had to collect. So it flows from the product a little back to the state fund. Saving this entire official would save tens of millions in the short term and hundreds of millions in the long term. The officials employed there, including lawyers and contract staff and office staff, can be transferred to normal administration, mainly to financial management and other corresponding public services. And all of this Federal representative activity, which is at any rate initially concerned by the Ministries' approach – all information comes from the Ministries – can, as is usual in other countries of the world, be provided by authorized lawyers. This would lead to a huge savings, an insignificant savings potential in the expenditure management structures and a return on taxes to the authority. The last sentence is: The immediate reason for this word message, which will not be the last with God, is that the mandatory representation by the financial procuratorship should be extended: from the covenant that it has already represented, also to the representation of countries and communities. – The Financial Procuratorship is abolished! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24191	The next speaker is Mr Faul. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24212	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Because last time I put this idea – and this has already been mentioned – with the Supervisory Board chairmen a little bit into play and the colleagues meant that it is a proven, old instrument, that can't be replaced, that was always so and should stay like this, I can report the following: I had an interesting experience on the weekend. I asked two large Supervisory Board chairmans, one in the insurance sector and one in the commercial sector: What do you say about your function? – And both of them said: In reality, we are not very interested in the companies! – Then I asked: Why not? And they said: You know, we two are the ones who look at the balance sheets, look at the provisions that look at the profits collected and look at the management contracts, and that's why they don't want us! And one of them said: If you take the Huber from the ÖBB as an example today, then it must have been one that has led an American railway with a huge success so that it can come to such a cash – and above all to these side contracts: The private insurance is paid, the household is paid, the car, the car for the woman, the accident insurance, the life insurance! There are so many things coming together, he said, that's just inconceivable. And he would also plead that you just have to regulate this. We have referred to the example of Huber, and in this respect both Supervisory Board Presidents say: These are contracts that have not definitely excluded these secondary jobs, otherwise he could never do so! He could never put his wife there, he could never outsource this real estate company there. – And I reckoned, Mr President: If the ÖBB had given this to a broker company – Raiffeisen, the savings bank, whoever – then they would have a maximum of 3 pro- In the case of a value in that amount, they would have paid only 2 per cent. And if you are facing what has been sold by Mrs. Huber and what has been taken here, and this is converted into percent, then the train has paid 23 percent commission through these machinations! If you still look at the fact that not best bidders have come to the train, but only second best bidders, you can see: That was a delta of € 2 million. It's flown back, but the second bidder sold the property to the best bidder! - I'm saying they're glamours. That's not all right! That's a check. And in reality, if that's true, what these two Supervisory Board Presidents told me, that's a classic reason for redundancies!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24254	Mr Sieber, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group Speaking time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24276	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! High house! Even if salaries are tempting, research is organized in Austria in three ministries. This has undoubtedly led to double liquefaction and also to a lack of votes. That is why in 2000 the government set up the Council for Research and Technology Development. On the one hand, this Council had the task of consulting the government on research and development, but also of providing long-term strategies. In 2002, the EU then formulated the Barcelona target, which meant that countries were invited to raise the R & D rate to 3 percent of GDP by 2010. Here is Austria on a good path: In 2000, it was still 4.3 billion € or 1.91 percent of GDP, with 6.32 billion € in 2006 or 2.47 percent of GDP. And I am convinced that we will reach this Barcelona target by the year 2010. Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors has made a number of suggestions. In particular, it would be important for him to abolish the quota to be negotiated annually between the Ministries. While the Ministries have meant that difficult negotiations are virtually abolished because this quota has been used, I believe that the Court of Auditors is indeed in line here. In addition, the Court of Auditors has raised another 12 points. In the future, we will surely see if these 12 points have been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24309	Mrs Schönpass is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24330	Madam President. High house! I refer to the Court of Auditors' report in 2006. The Court of Auditors has carried out numerous conduct audits in all federal states. Each Minister or Minister shall be obliged, in accordance with the Federal Budget Act, to attach the financial impact to his or her proposals for regulations and laws. Unfortunately, this commitment was not always met in 2006, although the trend is rising: 51 percent was agreed in 2003 and 73 percent in 2006. It would be desirable for 100 percent to be reached. Interestingly, the Ministry of Finance has more than half of its Regulations do not provide or do not provide sufficient information on the follow-up costs. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] In accordance with a resolution of the National Council, the Court of Auditors is also included in the review procedure. A total of 232 drafts were submitted to the Court of Auditors in 2006. However, laws and regulations were also announced without the Court of Auditors having previously been given opportunity to assess, for example at the “Family & Profession Management GmbH”. I think it is a legitimate request from the Court of Auditors that the obligation to calculate the financial impact is met. And I also think that the review process is a good tradition of Austrian legislation. I thank the Court of Auditors for their exemplary work.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24373	Next, Mr Reheis. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24394	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! The tomorrow’s “Kurier” headlines about the financial crisis, which is currently felt everywhere: ‘The fatal consequences of greed’ means: “The profit-dependent payment of bank managers is partly due to the financial crisis, according to German supervision.” For example, in this article: “The profit-dependent payment of top managers provides the strong incentive to increase profits in the short term.” Of course. But the following thing happens: that these managers obviously lose the morale and the feeling, and thus also the responsibility towards the company and also those who have to pay these salaries. And I think it is very important and very good that we can carry out the relevant investigations and inspections here through the Court of Auditors at least in the public sector. In its own field, Mr President: TIWAG pays the former Landesratwärter, that is, by the ÖVP, for a consul contract 18 500 € per month! – I mean “Moral”: 18 500 € for a consul contract, and he himself says that the contents of this contract are private and “I do my work”. – Of course, he will have to do his work. That's not how it's going to go. And that is why the call for greater consideration to be given to these institutions in any case is that the powers of these Supervisory Boards, Boards, Consuls, and those who are all behind them, are really fully and transparently exposed. There is more than the need for transparency! And it is also right for the National Accounting Court – probably due to this “press” article – to now demand the following: An examination of the gages in the nearby area as well as at TIWAG, Hypo, TILAK is imaginable for him. – I would still extend it to the Landeskulturfonds, to the agricultural community and the like. By the way: If you look at the increases in the manager's salaries, you should consider making them possible only if the same percentage of the increase in salaries is also transferred to all employees at the same time, because I think it is so that if there is a success, the employees with the managers and the managers have worked out at the same time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24431	Next, Mr Wimmer. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24452	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The 2005 and 2006 incomes report has once again encouraged very informative facts, and I would simply like to stress that it is very welcome that there will be more transparency in public management incomes in the future, which will now also include variable salary components such as premiums separately in addition to fixed salary. In this respect, there was a cross-party consensus, and that is pleasing and good. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The discussion in the public is simply not to be conducted if you look more closely at the development of the board salaries at the ÖBB. The increases in the last three years were really exorbitant and almost unreasonable, I would like to say. We already heard it today: plus 41 percent, plus 84 percent, plus 45 percent. This is really adventurous and simply not to accept. There is really the question of responsibility: Who is responsible for such contracts? What are the names of the responsible supervisory bodies that have signed such contracts? I noticed today, ladies and gentlemen: A railway driver is leaving me in this round today. – Haberzettl Willi, that’s not you, no, that’s the colleague Kukacka from this side. Perhaps he could have given us a little more information today on how these Treaties actually came about, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would simply like to say that such growths as the ÖBB can only be depleted if there is really more transparency and if there is a physical assignment. There will be improvements in the 2008 report, but there is still a lot to be done.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24488	Mr Mag. Gäßner is the next one to speak. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24510	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! The Court of Auditors also examined feibra GmbH, and the Court of Auditors issued a very good witness to the purchase of this company by post. However, a sentence bothered me a little. It also says that there has been a positive development in the personnel sector. And I then looked more closely at why there was this positive development, and it is also quite clearly expressed in the Court of Auditors' report. In fact, it is said that this company has usually concluded framework contracts with mainly foreign contractors and has thus employed these self-employed ones – and, on the one hand, has passed the need for employment permits and, on the other hand, of course, has not paid any social security contributions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder whether the real task of a close-to-state company is to avoid the social network and the necessary funding in this way. – I don’t want to talk about the payments to these independent entrepreneurs at all. I think it is the task of the post to provide Austria with ordinary postal services – all of Austria! If I take this rumor seriously, which has spread again over the last few days and weeks, that the post is going to have more closures – one speaks of the thousand post offices! Then we, ladies and gentlemen, should do something about it as quickly as possible. I ask those responsible in the Federal Government to follow this rumor. It cannot be that postal services – especially in the country – are completely destroyed.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24542	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, has now spoken. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24563	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the fact that the Court of Auditors' work has been so positive and, of course, I would like to thank you very much, as you requested, for the staff who have the main responsibility for providing you with the reports in this quality. But allow me, since today not only the income report, but also the 2006 activity report is on the agenda, that I may draw up a few points that have not yet been illuminated. In this activity report, it is explained that the Court of Auditors first drew up a knowledge balance in 2007. This means that he has presented his knowledge, since not all the services of the Court of Auditors can be measured or counted, as there are very many knowledge-based services that do not allow a different measurement. We have applied a model – an internationally recognised model of cook and tailor – and have presented the Court of Auditors' knowledge of this, both in the areas of relationship and human resources. In this way you can find out what know-how is available in the Court of Auditors. And we have also made this transparent in the performance report, with a view – I come to the point that honourable Member Herb has mentioned – that this model is now being taken as a basis by other auditors worldwide and, for example, the UN is interested in developing a knowledge balance as an international organisation. – So a step we have taken in the right direction. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties.]] Another point where the Court of Auditors has also taken a step forward was that in 2007 we developed a code of conduct in agreement with the employees and there – in connection with the UN Convention on Corruption, since 1. February 2006 has entered into force – have established that an organisation itself has to lay its own hands in order to create awareness to keep staff away from corruption and the vulnerability to corruption. – So there is also a step, I believe, in the right direction, for which INTOSAI has also provided the basis with its guidelines. In the context of this, Mr Gaßner, too, has to be mentioned: The Court of Auditors is excellent, but what happens to the recommendations? Are these also implemented? – I can also point out that this report states that around 85 percent of the Court’s recommendations are implemented. – That is, a high percentage, for which you, of course, make a contribution with your services and your emphasis, so that the audited bodies also join the Court of Auditors’ recommendations and implement them. An example of this is the reports on the Research and Development Council today, where 83 percent of the recommendations have been implemented and where the Research and Development Council has even taken a decision to implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations, and this decision has also been submitted to the Federal Government and the National Council – a proof that cooperation also works with the audited body and – if it works – falls on fertile grounds for taxpayers. In the case of the feibra, which was also addressed by you, Mr Gaßner, 88% of the recommendations have been implemented. It was 100 percent for foreign use and victim protection. This shows that the Court of Auditors is adopted with its competence and also with its recommendations, not only as an examiner, but also as an advisor. One point that I would like to take a short look is, of course, the income report. They have already stated that there are a number of points which show that it is partly not comprehensible how success premiums or variable components of the references are measured. One example of this is the BIG, the federal real estate company, where the board of directors earn an average of EUR 183 900, with the BIG Board of Directors holding the economic responsibility for a assets of approximately €8 billion. On the other hand, there is ÖBB Immobilien GmbH, which is only an administrative company, where the ownership responsibility of the owner – the ÖBB Infrastructure Bau Gesellschaft – is to be exercised. It is true that the average reference price is €416 300. As both the one and the other reference are, it is not understandable why the Court of Auditors will also carry out an examination in this context to explain to what extent these components are justified and which criteria are applied in order to grant these variable reference components to the staff. This examination will be carried out in 2008. This has already been discussed in the context of the debate, for example by Mr Kräub and Mr Gahr, who have pointed out that they consider it appropriate to create transparency in this area. I refer only to the OECD Corporate Governance Principles, where Section 5 states that a timely, precise disclosure of remuneration policy would be appropriate for the members of the Management Board, and also points out that the disclosure of personal data is increasingly regarded as a good practice. In this context, the Corporate Governance Code is also mentioned, which has been developed for listed companies, where point 31 states that the publication of fixed and performance-dependent remuneration is to be carried out separately for each member of the Executive Board in the Annual Report. I think that 8 million shareholders – tax payers – have a right to the fact that this is all the more true of national companies. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24649	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-103 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-106 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:18:07]] 16. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (455 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of India on scientific and technical cooperation (489d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24701	We're going to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mrs. Dr. Brinek's speech. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24731	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! The agreement with India is on the agenda. On a day when such a large, important milestone has been done in European politics, we look beyond the borders. Europe, India – Erasmus Mundus is such a programme that opens up European borders. All of this can be achieved with life at the universities, with the students, with the scientists and researchers only if the university develops further when the university law is further developed, in the sense of the UG and not in another direction. Why do I say that? – Because the last few days have been addressed. Mr Grünewald is noding. Yes, he wishes for himself a law similar to the state of Mary Theresa. I have to say, I already prefer Minister Hahn to Maria Theresia. – I also prefer him to my colleague Green Forest. I confess now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Please be informed by the rector, Bruner, of the dependencies under which the rectors, the university professors and, of course, the students were at the time. Terrible scenarios are emerging. You will not go into the history of the further development of the UG, Mr Green Forest, but it is already in the APA. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Are you prophetic?]] We'll be able to deal with it. However, these are not proposals that point to the future. Others – I also quote the Austrian press agency – are also going in the wrong direction from the ÖH proposals. – The ÖH is so honest and says: Turn around, too. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Yes, sure!]] How did you say? You liked the universities, just as they had been constituted by their leading officials – University Assembly. ==References== ==References== Wonderful! I didn't know the greens were so conservative. So stock-conservative! Back to the 14th. ==References====External links== [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] We will not want to achieve this situation. We're not going to want them either. We will certainly be able to further develop the university law with a majority in the right direction if the majority agrees. I'm not worried either. The Uniko directors say they're going to take care of universities and autonomy. – Wonderful, we can need support. But it won't be like you have to be careful. We are pleased, however, to see that the contract with India can be fulfilled. We will vote – “fine-tuning” has already been mentioned – and will bring improvements where necessary, on the basis of international experience and also on the basis of national experience, so that the university law can be further developed, but no turning point, no Maria-Theresian nostalgia can come. - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24796	Next, Mr Dr. Niederweiser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24828	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Actually, there would have been a real call for action, because what this should have to do with the UG, I do not know at all, colleague Brinek. This is about €90 000 a year for scientific cooperation between Indian and Austrian universities and universities, non-university research institutions and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's all about good universities!]] It may be that there are two people from the university too, but I do not think that this depends on how we will reform our UG now or not. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What does “also” mean? Mostly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Oh, yes!]] [[Call to the Greens: Can you exmatriculate the Brinek?]] I think the area here is really important enough to talk about this issue, too, because we note that international studies – Booz Allen, for example – expect 70 percent of the worldwide newly created research sites in China and India to be around 30 percent in India by 2009. That is to say, what has happened in the field of production of outsourcing – a lot comes from China – has already covered the field of research and development. I think that such an agreement is not irrelevant to follow what is happening in India. It's not the world, but I think it was a good idea to conclude this agreement. Germany, too, has done something like that. The reason was essentially the 60-year celebration of independence. This has to be filled with life, and I think it is about selecting the right projects and sending the right people there to observe and cooperate – with a research market that is one of the most powerful in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24901	Mr Grünewald has now come to speak. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24923	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! When I heard Mr. Brinek's speech, I felt in India thinking about the psychotropic effect of incense sticks. I've got to correct something. Yes, I mentioned empress Maria Theresia, and when I said that universities had already chosen her rectors and rectors before empress Maria Theresia, and had not been ordered by political councils. - That's what I said. But let us come to the higher filials of our colleague, Mr Brinek. Such intergovernmental agreements are massively interesting, necessary and good, but either you really talk about them – perhaps not according to the size and population of India now, because that was not done in five minutes – or you wink through them. I will now read to you what is in the agreement. You have the feeling that there is a template, that says: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and... – and then there is India, once Ghana, Guatemala, the United Kingdom. – The content, however, is the same. The first sentence says that the Republic of Austria and India are convinced that this Treaty is an important element in ensuring stability in the world. – I admire this noble modesty, but it is not very promising. Article 1 states that ‘cooperation shall take account of the state priorities laid down in science and research’. We discussed with the President of the Court of Auditors what Austrian research strategies are. Has the Council provided for strategies? You hear, the Minister of Finance requires milestones, benchmarks, output orientation. – But strategies of the Austrian Federal Government? – I didn’t write it in my head. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: In the government program!]] Life Science, brain research, material research – these are not strategies yet! Now I come to the exciting thing: If you know that the Council – one of the many councils of Austria – has relatively little room for action in the interweaving of the different ministries, it is interesting to go into art. 5 to come where it says: ‘For the purposes of consulting all matters relating to the implementation of this Agreement, the Parties shall set up a Joint Commission on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, hereinafter referred to as the Joint Commission.’ It has all the tasks: To assess the projects, to develop the strategies, to assess whether this is to be harmonised with the priorities of India and Austria, whether the leverage effect will occur tomorrow, but not later than in the morning. I ask you – there is no word in it! –: The Council will be occupied by you. - It's good. But it might be very interesting to know: Are Orientals coming in? Physician? - Who's coming in there? Who is this? What skills do they have? How do they work? – There's nothing in there, and we're going through it. I would also like to know the following: The Council for Research and Technology has also been occupied by the Federal Government – in proportion 50 to 50 – and fundamental sciences have been diluted to two university members, there are four representatives of large corporations, instead of two foreign experts, there is only one, and then the Council has to serve three ministries after a quota, with the disbursement of funds. – Is that the task of the Council? Is the excellence test? – That’s the truth! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] And I don't want to see such a thing in India – to return to the subject – and don't fog me in smoke sticks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24968	Now comes Mr Mag. Darmann speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24990	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Don't worry, I won't take those three minutes. It is known that this is a consensual matter. We all know the importance and importance of cooperation between India and Austria in the scientific field until now. It's supposed to be deepened. There is, of course, no objection. On the contrary, it is very important for Austrian research and development, for the relevant institutions such as universities, university institutions, academies of the sciences that the cooperation is deepened. For this reason, the BZÖ will give its assent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25017	Mrs Fuhrmann is now speaking. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25038	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This agreement is indeed the basis for a lively cooperation between two visionary states. One must also focus on the fact that India, in the context of a global economic system, as a producer of innovative ideas in recent years, has been able to play an important role. For example, India is often in the lead in the ranking of various international research institutions, and this highlights the central role of the Republic of India in the field of science and research. India is, in the interests of the population, second-richest country and, in addition to an extensive economic potential, also brings a tremendous potential for young thinkers. This should also be in the foreground, considering that only at the university in New Delhi, in total, about 300,000 students are studying. For comparison: At the University Vienna is studying 71,000 students. – The purpose of this agreement is to make a symbiosis of the individual research institutions between our two countries and to benefit from them. In any event, this agreement supports the increasing internationalisation of the Austrian universities, technical universities and research institutions and thus also strengthens the competitiveness of our local institutions. This agreement should therefore only be supported.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25078	Mr Mag. Eisenschenk is the next one to speak. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25099	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank Mr Hahn not only in the form of a rhetorical flake, but really sincerely and cordially for his great commitment, particularly with regard to the internationalisation of research and science. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear that this cooperation lays a foundation for the career of many Austrian students. In addition – we have discussed the EU Treaty in detail today – this is also a very clear sign of a cooperative society, and we can be proud of it. The special feature of this agreement is that the value is not measured in money. This is only €90 000, which is very little compared to what has already been decided in this House. Nevertheless, it means a variety of follow-up projects in the sense of bilateral and multilateral project cooperation. It is important to further develop this system. I also believe it is important that the Association of Austrian Exchange Services is further developed into an internationally recognised, efficient international educational exchange agency. There are various fields of action, such as the European Knowledge Area, the network of South-East Europe and so on. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in the end it is important, at a time of fast-moving and networked communication, to grow together again in other places. The fundamental right to education offers an excellent opportunity to get closer to each other, to overcome political boundaries and to find a balance in international understanding.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25142	Now comes Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25164	Madam President. Federal Minister! Cooperation between Indian and Austrian universities in the field of science and technology is facilitated in this way. I remember that, when we decided to reform the university, there were great excitements because in Innsbruck, for example, the Medical University was separated from the normal university, the primary university. At that time, they complained that this would make cooperation more difficult. – I believe that a decision like today’s State Treaty reminds us that research and knowledge European cooperation is global and international, not just across the road and that there are other distances to be overcome here than in a uniform legal conglomerate. I have to say that I found it very interesting to discuss the new UG here and there. I look forward to the survey we will hold on Friday, in which we want to hear and become, for the first time, in the discourse between the various actors and stakeholders. I am convinced that this will lead to new impetus for future research and science policy in Austria. I would like to thank our Federal Minister for always focusing on this open dialogue and very flexibly addressing the concerns of the various stakeholders. This is not, of course, because this is very difficult. In cooperation and in comparison with other countries such as India, which have rightly noted that young people are very large in the field of researchers, a small country like Austria cannot exist with mass, but in any case with quality. That is why I hope that in Austria we will establish a top research and top scientific institute, which is really on the top level of Europe. I am looking forward to establishing and building, together with the Minister of State, the best minds of all Austrian universities, research institutions and companies, an internationally known institution, because this is a cornerstone that, as I believe, we need for the entire scientific landscape in this country. We are not yet on our way as fast as I would like, and I ask the Federal Minister to put a tooth back here. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25209	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25230	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These international agreements are important, which has already been said by the previous speakers. This promotes the mobility of our scientists, especially our young scientists. This cooperation with India is a very interesting matter, because a country with such economic growth also brings prospects for the future to Austria. Remembering that the IT industry in industry is currently on the move with plus 30 percent growth or biotechnology with plus 35 percent and more, it is clear why universities such as the University of Soil Culture, the TU Vienna or Austrian universities in India are already working on projects. Conversely, it is also easier for students from India to acquire knowledge in Austria. The fact that science ultimately also causes economics, we see this also in the example of Austria – India. More than 500 companies are currently connected to India and create technology transfer in particular. This means that cooperation promotes the economy, brings new partners and creates trust, not only across Europe, but also worldwide. I will now close the bow to the first item on the agenda today: Cooperation with first small agreements and first binding arrangements has also begun in Europe. Thank God everyone was there, as is the case on this issue at the end of the agenda. That is why I hope that if there are more extensive agreements with which global networks are being used, everyone will be involved and that no one will leave the courage again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25270	Now, Mr President, Minister of State, Dr. Hahn, has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25291	Madam President. High house! I would like to thank all of you for the unanimous support of this agreement. I think there is no question that such cooperation is necessary. Mr Grünewald, if you like to smile at some form of wording: For a country like India, every activity, given its size, is a contribution to international stability, and we are happy to join it. With regard to the Joint Commission you have referred to, I can reassure you: What we are discussing there is the result of what the universities and Austrian research institutions want to put on joint activities with India. The basis of this is, for example, so-called science days or science days. Today these will take place in Austria, next year in India. On the basis of previously defined topics, scientists from both countries come together and exchange, and the result is joint projects and ventures. The €90 000 available for this project is intended for the mobility of scientists. Practical implementation must, for example, be based in Austria on funding from the Scientific Research Fund. Provisions have also been made for this. In this sense, I would like to thank you once again for your support! You can be sure that the Austrian science and university landscape will benefit from this initiative in the coming years, especially since India will be one of our priority countries in this field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25331	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are now voting on the request of the Scientific Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 455 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:41:26]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25370	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed were brought in applications 675/A to 686/A(E). Questions 4045/J to 4067/J were also raised.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-04-09-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e25390	The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 10. April 2008, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. This meeting will be started at a Question Time. Today's sitting is closed.
