ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4824	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 72. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocols of 70 and 71. Meeting of 12. In September 2008, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. No Members are reported as being prevented. [[09:07:00]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4858	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Alexander Zach has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Mr Kurt Nekula in his place. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the writer, Mrs Binder-Maier, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4907	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4926	I promise. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4950	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Federal Chancellor Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer is appointed by Vice Chancellor Mag. Wilhelm Molterer and Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Ursula Plassnik is represented by State Secretary Dr. Hans Winkler. [[09:08:28]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4998	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “The importance of investment in infrastructure, research and technology for economics, growth and employment” Mr Haberzettl was the first to speak. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5028	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate members of the government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised to note that the representative of the Federal Chancellor is the Vice-Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor is not here, but is not represented either, and this, although we are dealing with a subject, concerns essential conditions, points for the labour market and infrastructure investment. [[Call to the ÖVP:And where is the Federal Chancellor?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that infrastructure in general and transport infrastructure in particular are a fundamental prerequisite for mobility, for the exchange of goods and therefore also for the labour market, should in fact be regarded as undisputed. But when it comes to what the infrastructure is built for, the spirits often begin to separate. In times of threatening climate change, in times when energy prices are having extreme increases, in times of increasing raw materials and energy demand of the Asian region – I mention China and India in this context – in times of a threatening sharp economic downturn and in times when the rich in richer and poor are getting poorer and poorer, in times when the financial markets are threatening to burst like a bubble and the economy are moving down, in times of increased life expectancy with much lower pensions than before, i.e. with a need for cheap mobility for an older group of people, in these times it is not a command of the hour, but the responsibility for our future and for the future of our children and children to invest in the right transport infrastructure and to invest where a maximum of positive effects is associated with it. It is also important to achieve short-term and long-term effects. An example of short-term needs: The imminent economic downturn is threatening the successful labour market policy over the last one and a half years. In particular, the infrastructure investment of the Minister for Transport contributed enormously to significantly reducing unemployment. The IHS has calculated that rail infrastructure investments have a particularly high multiplier to boost the economy. Energy prices increased by 27 percent between 2005 and 2008. It will therefore become even more important in the future to ensure mobility energy-saving by public transport and to ensure the location of the loading economy energy-saving by rail transport. The Minister of Transport has prevented the next increases in the price for the Austrians, so that they will not continue to turn at the price spiral. [[Call the ÖVP: Who's telling you that?]] I dare to comment and comment: However, it would be necessary to carry out this increase in tariffs in order to compensate for the speculation losses of your management, which has been replaced in the meantime. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The dispersal of prosperity continues to cause the middle class to disappear. The rich Austrians are getting richer and poor Austrians are getting poorer and poorer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Therefore, it will also be a challenge to create affordable public transport through targeted infrastructure investment. You are right, Mr Scheibner, you are partly responsible for reducing the prosperity of the middle class. You're perfectly right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You have now awakened your own group!]] Long-term and sustainable effects are necessary because we also bear the responsibility for what comes after us. – I do not want to put this point of view to you, honourable Member. [[Abg. Scheibner: Thank God!]] Long-term and sustainable effects – I mention a few examples –: Climate threat will not be soluble in the short term, but only through long-term action. The growing demand for raw materials for the economy and, as a result, a further strengthening of climate problems are reinforced by new developments in the Asian region. Switching to environmentally friendly transport and strengthening these modes of transport is essential. Here I also venture the following note to – and this is a cynical expression – biosprit: I think it is simply unacceptable that despite rising hunger in this world, we use food for fuelling cars. The funds used for this should be used in the conversion to public transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the future, we will also face a phenomenon that is an effect of your “successful” policy, Mr Scheibner: The pensioners will lose massive purchasing power in the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you were in government! Who has been in the government for the last two years?]] And if this happens, we also have the responsibility to provide a public transport, the use of which is manageable in order to ensure a minimum level of mobility for the elderly. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you were in government!]] Now on the effects of infrastructure investments, which have been proven and also demonstrated by the IHS. There are short-term effects, namely the income effects with multiplier effect, which are taken into account as location effects in the area in which they take place, but the infrastructure itself does not appear to be consumer goods. In reality, we can see that the income of employees in these areas is used exclusively for consumption and thus increases purchasing power. This will make the economic multiplier effect fully effective. In addition – and this has also been proven – infrastructure investment also has a long time to come and continues to generate income. The long-term effects of infrastructure investment – there are significant cost-saving effects – are particularly relevant for the loading economy and for those who benefit from public transport services. This also creates competitive advantages for the economy. But where these investments are going is crucial for this second effect. The cost-saving effects will only occur if relevant transport options are actually created if transport times are accordingly reduced by infrastructure investment and thereby an increase in productivity or if the built infrastructure will otherwise increase competitiveness or if new sites are opened up with the built infrastructure. [[Call the ÖVP:Readtime!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now people get up, now they're sleeping right back in!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your unrest, because that is exactly the success story of the Federal Minister for Transport, because investment in infrastructure has been made precisely among these aspects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The positive effects of infrastructure investment, particularly in the rail sector, are enormous. However, their economic impact depends decisively on the respective starting position. I'm allowed to sum up briefly: Infrastructural investment has high employment effects, high effects on the financing of social security funds, high additional tax revenue. Good infrastructure strengthens the economic location and promotes the mobility of the population. I would simply suggest to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you should make a proper investment policy rather than a privatisation policy, because where it leads, we see in the meantime.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5208	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5245	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are pleased – you do not yet know what is so pleasing – that – a comparison of the infrastructure packages – €2.1 billion per year has been spent in 2001 to 2006 and as a government we have increased the investment in the 2008–2013 infrastructure package to € 3.1 billion, i.e. € 1 billion per year. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why is that gratifying? – Because in the case of research and development, total expenditure could be increased by € 1 billion per year. These are those efforts made by the Federal Government, by the state, and those made by companies in our country, together, an increase of € 1 billion per year. These are two figures that impressively convey that it is not only about possible economic weaknesses in the future, but not only about a possible negative forecast of the economic development of the future, but now where it is necessary to act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These actions include increasing the purchasing power of the population, but they also include a consistent approach to how we have done this – and we believe that it must now be strengthened – to put it in the further development and strengthening of infrastructure in our country. Infrastructure and research are, therefore, very much combined because they both produce a very high employment effect and because they help to prevent a lot of cost-effectiveness in our country in the future, namely unemployment. Unemployment is expensive for the people concerned, it is expensive for the budget, and is therefore to be prevented by all means now, and not when it is too late. Whoever acts now is acting in good time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we also ask what we need to invest in infrastructure in our country, there are many aspects besides employment, which can of course be most impressive in the development of the railways. [[Abg. Scheibner: You also speculated them!]] The expansion of the rails, agreed with all the federal states, is an example of how, if both want to work together, we can also work together and, if we both want to, we are able to achieve tangible results for our country and thus create an important future in our country. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Tell the commuters in the Waldviertel!]] The extension of the southern route would not be possible if we had not made timely provision for the Koralm Tunnel to be spoken not only for more years, but also for the construction preparations to begin. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Many have said at the beginning of our reign: The southern section also belongs to the Semmering Tunnel. Only by means of the material, correct and joint constructive discussions that both sides wanted, has it been possible to make a selection of routes, to initiate an environmental impact assessment process, and thus to prepare this second point on the southern route, namely the Semmering Tunnel constructively and rationally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only if this common attitude is visible to the population, if the objective of expanding the rails and thus reducing the individual traffic on the road, to better distribute the ever-increasing numbers of truck traffic from the road, namely, is more achieved on the rails, when the population sees that these efforts are not only part of speeches, part of programs, part of future announcements, but are being worked on daily, they become a bit more reality daily, then the population also gains this necessary confidence in politics, because no one can be politically successful without the trust of the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have therefore also done my utmost, particularly in this area of the common road projects which our country needs, not to forget the safety created by second tunnel tubes, which no one needs to talk small when in international Comparison sees which risks have been given by missing second road tunnel tubes and which accidents have occurred internationally. It is not only then to build a second road tunnel tube when something has happened, politics has to act before. That is why this expansion programme is particularly important for us. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] We need a lot of road connections to our neighbors, and their construction – 19 years after the fall of the wall, 19 years after the departure of the borders, is very late – is now progressing with high pressure. Because the connections and road links to our neighbours are also part of supporting our business location, infrastructure is indisputably one of the most important factors for the economy to develop a good economic location in international competition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If one compares advantages and disadvantages in the infrastructure, then one of the disadvantages of the infrastructure is that we have begun much too late in the area of rail. Let us not take an example internationally of those who are behind us in expanding the rails, but of that country in Europe that is ahead of us, namely Switzerland, then we will only have many tunnel lines in 2020, as many high-performance routes as Switzerland today and then we expect that, like Switzerland today, not one third, but two thirds of traffic and goods can be shifted from road to rail. [[Abg. Oillinger: But we are world champions at the noise protection walls!]] This can only work if, at the same time, our commitment to the European Union is increasing, it also allows a different policy for countries such as Austria to determine the toll for trucks themselves on motorways and thus to increase them so that it makes sense to build the south line and the Brenner Base Tunnel with so much money. Thus, the shift of traffic from road to rail actually works, a shift that knows the cost truth and thus acts as one of the largest environmental projects of the future of our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the chapter on research, many are to be thanked, even those ministries that are concerned, because the work of the research promotion society, which has a large share of COMET programmes and others, is a meaningful, meaningful one, though sometimes not as loud as one or other dispute, but that is a consistent and good work of the FFG. These are the experts in our country who are working together with businesses to promote research and increase the research rate of our country. That is why I am proud that we have increased the research rate in this 20 months or so. We are away from our target, 3 percent of GDP, but with a consistent effort, which is now particularly necessary, we will achieve the research target by 2010 or 2011. This consistent effort together with the companies of our country is an important goal for us to shape the future of our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Research – and I would also like to address Mr Haberzettl, who spoke of Biosprit – also has the function, if we now invest in additional, that we quickly say goodbye to this generation of biosprit and come to the next generation of biosprit, which no longer needs to burn so many food, because we need food urgently, but not for the sprit. [[Abg. Oils: Agro, not organic!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Research also has the advantage in environmental technology and energy efficiency that whenever it comes to achieving environmental objectives, including technical, scientific progress, as well as education policy that Claudia Schmied has carried out in recent months, as well as increased human resources, more academics are also meant, which is also achieved by deleting the barriers to study fees. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Madam President, the red lamp is shining!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore: This is a way that still needs a lot of extra effort, but it can be proud to refer to some results. I thank all those who have contributed to the cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5429	Ladies and gentlemen, I would draw attention to the fact that according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall be 5 minutes. Because there were also calls, only to remember: § 97a also provides that the speaking time of ministers is a final speaking time. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you always rang and pointed out!]] – This has only been so if a Rules of Procedure have been agreed, and this has not happened in this case. The next item is Mrs Stadlbauer's speech with a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5463	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! One of the most meaningful and important investments is the support of women on the labour market. The SPÖ supports career-oriented women – and these are, of course, working women, but also women who are in education, but they are also women who temporarily leave the job to take care of their children or to care for close relatives, and women who have worked for their lives and are now in retirement. We want to improve their situation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only one's own professional activity secures one's own income – and only one's own income is a guarantee for an independent, self-determined life, a life that women decide on. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] We therefore have to ensure that women are good – I emphasize: good! – finding jobs, jobs that allow sufficient income. We don't see women from the SPÖ as Contingents of family income, where they are fed with precarious jobs and part-time work. It is therefore necessary to start working already in the field of vocational training, in teaching or in school. The SPÖ has put a lot on the way: Promotion of girls in technical professions, teaching with Matura, a training guarantee for all young people. I was able to take a picture of it myself during an operational visit to Linz, in the teaching workshop of the ÖBB, but also in the teaching workshop of the Voest, where more and more female apprentices are being trained. All trainers agree that young women can also easily keep up with the boys there; often they are also the best of a vintage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must start with the differences in income, because women still earn far less than men in Austria. The average income of women is 1 382 € gross per month; compared to the male with 2 061 €. The wide range of income shears lies, among other things, in the high part-time employment rate, in the lack of career opportunities, in the lack of compatibility between work and family, in the choice of profession, in the lack of support for women in the workplace, and so on. But even if we hide all these factors, there is still a difference of about 10 percent – so to speak, the “classical” discrimination. However, this can be balanced through targeted women's promotion – and that is important to us. It is also important for me to stress that we need clear legislation on women's promotion, because simply focusing on the good will of businesses does not do anything; otherwise there would be no more differences in income between women and men. What we want is to do, that is to say, mandatory instead of voluntary women's promotion plans in the enterprises, public procurement contracts only to companies that can show women's promotion plans, to link economic promotion to women's promotion, to disclose women's and men's incomes – anonymized – in companies, and to a 40 percent women's quota in supervisory councils. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Self-employment and investment in the labour market, especially for women, is the best means of combating poverty. This is especially true of single-minded women, who are particularly dear to my heart; they are very much at risk of poverty. . In addition, our proposals against the price of food, especially the halving of VAT, would raise precisely for these women a number of This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. Women suffer the most from the inflation, for: 64 per cent of women in work are in the lower income range. The SPÖ supports women in work and wants to continuously improve their situation. Unfortunately, we have been abruptly stopped by the coalition partner, by the ÖVP, precisely by this new election desire. You must also be accused by the ÖVP that you do not want to pass on anything for women – quite the contrary! I would just like to remind you of the 2005 tax reform which did not harm the workers! [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] And I also remember the 2004 pension robbery, where the women were clearly the losers – and now you are from ÖVP even against anti-duration measures! This is double cynism – and this also shows your remoteness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A sentence still to Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer, who, unfortunately by absence, now shines, on 7. He said on July 15th: “It’s enough!” – I would like to say what an ÖVP officer from Linz told me about this: If someone says it's enough – then he must go, but not force everyone else to do so! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We want to continue working for our country, we want to continue working for the people of our country, especially for women, with new strength! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5582	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5603	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, the current hour clearly aims to highlight the technical competence of Mr Faymann. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] I'm just surprised that Mrs. Stadlbauer talked about everything... – Yes, that's so easy for you. You can also cheer through for five minutes. I don't know what the listener or spectator will have for an impression. [[Call the SPÖ: Get a better one!]] Mr Haberzettl gave a theoretical presentation, and Mr Faymann talks about himself. What I have to say is: Wonderfully, we agree on the subject and on the importance! Infrastructure policy is important, it is important for site decisions. Infrastructure policy is also important as we are in international competitiveness. Whoever invests in education, research, infrastructure, is at the forefront. Whoever throws out the money, as you want to do, will then have to repay the debt and perhaps not be in the front. This is also a certain strategy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at what leading managers say about infrastructure in Austria, we can see that the topics – as Mr Faymann has said – are also important, for example the motorway connection towards the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Also the motorway ring around Vienna or the three-track extension of the motorways are all important topics. In the rail sector it is similar. Managers see a positive development. We need faster connections, we need more flexibility in the transport of goods and much more. But when it comes to reaching priorities, the extension of the South Railway is at the forefront. The Brenner Base Tunnel comes as the second project, the Semmering Base Tunnel and the Koralm Tunnel, which you just presented as enthusiastic as a project, come relatively far back.. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, after the government has redefined the issue under the geopolitical new requirements of EU enlargement: How do managers view the implementation of these projects? – In an OGM survey in all areas that are important, the managers said: In 2006, there was a corresponding increase in consciousness. However, compared with the balance sheet, which is, internationally, positive, we are negative. But what's interesting is: Although the government has taken so much money into its hands in 2006 or has intended to take control of it, the trend in 2007 is negative. Mr Faymann, in the road sector there was an assessment in 2006 that was plus 1 and in 2007 the balance sheet was minus 4. In aviation, the 2006 balance sheet was minus 13, the 2007 balance sheet was minus 10. On the train she went from minus 28 to 2007 minus 33. Even in the ICT sector, there was a positive balance in 2006: 19 percent positive overhang, which was lowered in 2007. They presented a book together with Mr Androsch last year. This book has the title “Prevented and Delayed Infrastructure Projects. ” That's where you've dealt with the consequences and causes. Now I ask you if you are not involved in the causes of the manager's assessment now, relatively, worse. Let's look at the causes! This has happened under your leadership, under your competence. At ASFINAG, it was not about what was discussed, but about its managers. You, Mr Faymann, replaced the managers there and paid millioneurs in lengthy negotiations. Is this your focus at ASFINAG? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] Mr Haberzettl, you spoke so well about the financial crisis. Why? - Because you have experience in the Federal Railways. There more was discussed volatile presumptions than the basic decisions. That is also your responsibility, Mr Faymann! We have made a decision in the field of aviation too late as regards AUA, and we have had a decision on all that you have failed and what would have been important, such as a reorganisation of priorities – I admit, it is not all your fault –, time delays and resource waste. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] All of this, summarized under the heading “Ploiting, bad luck and pans”, can probably not be attributed to you alone, Minister, but one will surely be able to say: Your balance sheet in the transport sector is not as positive as you always want to believe! On the contrary: She's negative! We should have done a lot more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:A very weak speech!]] Now I have the impression that if you are not lucky at this level – and I admit that it is right that the implementations there take a long time, that it is difficult to carry out an EIA there – on another level the game. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Minister Faymann, a “new game”, a “new happiness” will hopefully not apply to us, I hope the balance is better!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5690	Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5742	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Faymann, I am pleased that you are here today without a majority of Parliament having to quote you. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yesterday in the evening I drove home a little earlier than usual and passed past poster walls where I was caught up by keywords such as “fighted”, “reruled”. A few minutes later, at home in front of the TV, I was again in the brutal reality of the election campaign, namely in the television confrontation “Faymann versus Molterer”. I thought: “Enoughly disputed!” it says, but we had to experience the opposite again yesterday. And if we continue the discussion today as much, namely that we no longer talk about reality at all, but only talk more in keywords, just like now at the transport discussion, then the population has even less reason to continue to trust us. The contradiction I see here between what you're talking about and what the reality is is really remarkable. You said yesterday that there was no public transport in the rural area de facto. They also rejected a quality boost and an expansion campaign for the public at the last meeting. How does that fit in? I don't understand all this anymore! In Austria, we have one of the world's densest road networks and one of the world's densest motorway networks. Since 2000, even more investment has been made in this infrastructure, but public transport is financially ahead of hunger. We are far from having brought to every village bus, train, bim. I think it is remarkable that, in view of this situation, a Minister for Transport on TV finds that there is de facto no public transport in rural areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we are now talking about future investment, it is, I believe, at the very highest time that we finally realize this swirling in our minds, which is what the real investments in the future are. Mr Faymann, that is not the extension of the high-level transport network, the construction of tunnels, the construction of second tunnel tubes, but that is a consistent extension of public passenger transport. This would be a real relief for the people who suffer from the cost and still depend on the car and have no chance of getting out of it alone. Whether this is in the South of Burgenland or in Upper Carinthia or in much of the Styria, these people have no choice. They have essentially ignored this need for freedom of choice over the last two years and have not helped to improve this situation. That's the reality! [[Congratulations and bravado with the greens.]] In other countries, the debate is much more progressive. In the UK, for example, the high-level road network has not been further expanded since 1997. There you have recognized the signs of time and invested heavily in public passenger transport. At one of the last meetings, which we believe to be ridiculous €15 million, the municipalities and cities are receiving grants to finance public transport, we have requested a substantial increase to 200 million. billions of € per year. If one were to do this consistently over the next five to ten years, the world would also look quite different in the south of Burgenland, in Upper Carinthia and in the regions where there is no public transport now. I do not understand how to reject this as a transport minister. You know very well, Minister Faymann, that investment in the development of public transport contributes most to job creation. This sector is significantly more employment-intensive than, for example, motorway construction. Also in the Vienna Landtag one should do more for public transport. If you want to make public really more attractive, you also need to talk about the price. The tariffs for the public – the price of single tickets et cetera – have increased much more significantly in recent years than the overall rate of inflation. But in Vienna's Landtag, the SPÖ continues to reject a tariff reduction for public authorities. I don't understand. That's the wrong way. This is the wrong investment in the future. It comes from your one-sided orientation from the seventies, it must be built, but roads and no public. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on discharge. – If you really want to discuss discharge seriously, I wonder why you hold on to your food surplus tax reduction package so tight. In the meantime, this is also so perceived by the population. People know essentially that they will never feel that to the extent that it should be, the VAT reduction will be eaten up by the trading chains so to speak. The Austrians expect real relief and real support. Why, however, does the SPÖ still refuse – even now, at this meeting – to reduce the social security contributions for the micro-earners. That would be €700 a year. This is something different from the few cents you will now receive as a discharge – or not. I do not understand your policy at all when you speak of ‘new governance’ and ‘social justice’ and then lose yourself in a populist package of which no one really needs a discharge. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, on equality between men and women in working life: Yes, more women's employment means more safety for women. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Only: Unfortunately, it has fallen in recent years. So “rerule” – I don’t know!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5857	Mr Themessl is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5878	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! A nice morning to all the spectators in front of the screens at home! – Mr Federal Minister, if you were to listen to you today when you added up what you had done, and if you heard the additional speakers of your group, you had to get the impression that you were overburdened. [[Call the SPÖ “additional speakers”!]] If you have actually done so much – Mr Haberzettl even spoke of a “success story” of Mr Faymann’s Minister of Transport – then you actually have to afford a long holiday. I very much hope that the Austrian electorate will select this red-black “chaos government” on the next Sunday and send it to where you belong, in a long-lasting holiday. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, you have said here that investment in infrastructure is to be made, which is also important for the economic location. – This is the only sentence with which you are perfectly right and where I agree with you. But if you mention here what all you have done and that you have invested a lot in the infrastructure and are talking about transporting a third of the Austrian goods on the railways, I have to tell you: You apparently don't know your own numbers! The fact is that 23 percent of all Austrian goods are transported on rail today. That says your own statistics. This also demonstrates the statistics of the Federal Office for Transport in Switzerland. In contrast, Switzerland, which has invested a lot in infrastructure in recent years, actually transports two thirds of its goods on the railways. So here in Austria there is a huge need for re-examination. But what are you doing? They go here and endanger the transport industry, although you are not able to offer alternatives on the railway to the required extent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In recent years, you have failed to secure jobs in the transport industry, yes, you have even managed to put thousands of jobs in the transport industry at risk today, through your measures. This starts with the increase in mineral oil tax last year, which I have explicitly warned about and where I have prophesied what will happen if you really do it. Two months later, this really happened. In fact, a price spiral has been set in motion, resulting in nothing left of their income to the Austrians today. But you, Minister Faymann, are even thinking of extending the truck toll and introducing and increasing it across the board. You know hundreds of trucks have already been flagged out, and you know that already the state is losing over €500 million in revenue from these flagged trucks. But you don't mind. On the contrary! If I hear from Mr Mitterlehner today that he accuses the SPÖ of making debts, and that the ÖVP is not in favour of making debts, I must remind him that his party has been ruling with changing majority in this Parliament since 1986. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you have completely forgotten is that despite excellent economic trends in 2006, 2007 and also in early 2008 you were unable to put a zero deficit on your feet. I forgot you're supposed to have produced a surplus. But this is not clear from your figures. In two and a half years, your Minister of Finance has taken €10.5 billion more than was foreseen in the Federal estimates. I ask you: Why didn't you manage to make a zero deficit? – I hope you get the bill presented for this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They endanger the economic location of Austria from SPÖ and ÖVP in a very special way, because: 70 per cent of all employees and apprentice training in Austria are found in SMEs and individual companies, but you have not managed to support them! You have not managed to make a tax reform in time to obtain the purchasing power in our country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another thing: In 2008 it will be the first time in this Republic that the revenue from VAT – earlier: Sales tax – no longer the main revenue factor. In other words, this year's income from the payroll tax will overtake the revenue from VAT. [[Abg. Hornek: That's right!]] This clearly shows that you are shrinking, shrinking and shrinking the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are attracting small and medium-sized incomes. With this in mind, we are in danger of the economic location of Austria being threatened most – and I therefore hope that you, ladies and gentlemen, from the previous coalition parties, will give an ordinary rejection to voters next Sunday. [[Abg. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5993	Next speaker: Mr Bucher. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6015	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Faymann, you have said today that investment in infrastructure – rail and road – is important. Mr Federal Minister, I can only say: You will probably find no one here in the House that would contradict you in this regard. – This knowledge, however, is not necessarily something new – and you know it, but today, Minister Faymann, as if you had just invented road and rail, in fact, as Mr Mitterlehner has already said, have invested less in it in the last two years than it was in the previous government. That's a fact you can't deny! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For example, the causes of the lack of policy in relation to the ÖBB lie in the 1980s and 1990s, which you know very well. At that time, SPÖ transport ministers pumped more money into the socialist railway union instead of investing in the expansion of the rail or in the purchase of wagons. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You are totally unsuspecting!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That was Mr. Gorbach!]] If you had done that at the time, you wouldn't have to increase the price of ÖBB tickets today, and then you wouldn't leave the track in a state that can be described as unattractive. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you, Federal Minister Faymann, put the Koralm train here as your parade project, I would like to say that you are here. You already remember that your own SPÖ-Collegin in Klagenfurt, the SPÖ-Chairman Gaby Schaunig, voted against at that time; therefore, the Party-Owner of the SPÖ-Kärnten, who voted against the Koralm-Bahn in the state government! You should also know this, Mr Minister, but also the SPÖ Members here in the House! Make yourself here and praise the Koralm train as a great success project, although its own people in Carinthia were opposed to it, that can't quite fit together, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You are not responsible for the “economic upturn” you are referring to, Mr Faymann, which you are wearing today, as you are not responsible for, because you voted by SPÖ in 2004 and 2005 against the greatest tax relief in Austria! [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Do you know Mr. Gorbach?]] You from SPÖ also voted against a pension reform at the time, and your German Chancellor Gusenbauer – your no-fed Chancellor –, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, whom you have already sent to the desert, so that he can no longer be found today and no longer sit here on the government bank, where no one knows where he is at all, this Chancellor Gusenbauer has always praised Austria's economic policy and financial policy abroad. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's been hiding in New York! He's jogging in New York!]] Yes, he has praised them; so must have been something good about it, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. This was the only thing that Gusenbauer could praise, because this was achieved in our time of government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have from the coalition parties – unfortunately God! – the citizens of our country are not removed, but burdened! You know that very well! They have raised mineral oil tax, as have social security contributions. In total, 13 fees and contributions have been increased by you! And this is a very simple economic bill, Mr Faymann; if you had been in the private sector once, you would know that – but You have not even learned a profession, Mr Faymann, I have read in a newspaper – that this is an economic principle: [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP]] If the costs increase, then of course the prices also rise. This is a fundamental principle; it is so throughout the world. If you put up the costs, the prices will also go up. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do not pretend now, Mr Faymann, as if you had been unspoiled of this whole thing! They have been in the government for a year and a half, but have done nothing against the cost! But now, before the election, you are agitating that you are making the most diverse proposals, that you are increasing in them, and that you no longer know what else you want to “improve” instead of constructively working to reduce taxes and provide effective relief for citizens, a discharge that is also felt in the wallets, Minister Faymann! You should think about it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Your so-called discharge policy, which you dream of here in the House, can and will not exist. Ladies and gentlemen, the inflation in our country is really enormous. Look You're looking at your own numbers: The real income loss of the population is 3 per cent – although people have to do 10 per cent more and work more than in recent years! For example, the Nog-Social Minister, Buchinger, called for a 4-percent wage increase. – Do you know what that means?! – You really do not know that, Minister Buchinger, because you have never worked in the private sector! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - That's what I said: 50 percent more wage tax – and the rest, as it were, is eaten up by inflation. And under the rule, less for the people comes out! – You, Minister Buchinger, should also think about this! That's not how it works! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] First of all, taxes have to be lowered – and then every income recipient in Austria really has more money in the bag, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The only thing you really understood, Mr. Faymann, was to remove the “black” from ASFINAG and ÖBB. You have made this “perfect”, all things at the expense of the Austrian taxpayers! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let's take a look at the discharges at the ÖBB: 200 000 € for Wenninger, 750 000 € for Goldmann, 800 000 € for Huber! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] They all got the “golden handshake” and walk around today with brightly filled wallets! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I have already asked you, Mr Faymann, in the Court of Auditors, to tell me what Mr Huber's consul agreement looks like. But you could not answer this question at the time, and therefore you should take the opportunity to do so today. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] This government has been elected! Please, dear population in Austria, ensure a change in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6226	Mr Bucher, as you have referred to the absence of Mr Gusenbauer, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: At the beginning of this meeting, you should have forgotten the apologies of Mr. Gusenbauer, Federal Chancellor, as well as Mrs. Foreign Minister Plassnik, for both are at the General Assembly of the United Nations with the President of the Federal Government in New York. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Since when is Joggen in Central Park an excuse?]] The next item is Mr. Wissenschaftsminister Dr. Hahn. His speaking time should not exceed 5 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6258	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! We are faced with a global economic development that can be seen as a threat. There are now three EU countries, including the Federal Republic of Germany, which are already on the verge of recession, and it is therefore necessary to create a responsible, sustainable policy, a policy which is Now has in mind, but also is not blind to the requirements and needs of the future. In this context, I consider it very important to keep an eye on Austria's research and science site: with intelligent, with sustainable answers. And that also means, for example, not taking away money from universities, but intelligently, structurally speaking, giving money. – We will certainly have some discussion on this today, and I hope that there is at least agreement that investment in research and development is an important and correct answer to the challenges of the world economy, but also to the fact that investment in research and development also generates jobs. For example, in January 2008, Professor David Audretsch, the head of the Max Planck Institute, found that around 40 percent of the gross domestic product was based on discoveries and inventions, for which only 2 to 3 percent of GDP had to be invested. The Economic Research Institute has also demonstrated in two studies last year – and also this year – that increased expenditure in research generates revenue and is active in employment. 1 € invested in research, which means sustainable 4 € more sales; 1 million € in research expenses generate up to 50 employees in the short term – 13 jobs and – in the long term! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The aws, the austria economics service, has demonstrated that funding in the field of technology and innovation has created or secured more than 93 000 jobs since 2004. In 2008 alone it was or are 9 000 jobs. Since 2004, almost €700 million has been involved in the promotion of technology and innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, we must therefore continue the successful efforts of recent years since 2000. We have achieved an increase in the R&D ratio from less than 2% to 2.64 percent now. This means that we are European champions of what is happening in the development of the R&D-Quote. I say from this point of view: Our goal must be to look at the 4 percent quota by 2020 after the 3 percent quota. We need 2 per cent of GDP – on which we agree – for tertiary education, but with structurally intelligent measures, and we need 1 per cent of GDP for basic research. That is, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue our commitment to investment in research and development in the current legislative period. And if we want to continue this growth path in research, we need €1.2 billion for research and development in the next legislative period. This would mean that we could create 60 000 additional jobs in this area during the next legislative period. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of setting priorities with the available resources – priorities that respond to today's challenges, but which, as has been said, do not lose sight of the future. We are in a global competition, we need highly trained people from universities. – The measures that are under discussion today cause me to doubt whether we can follow this path. Think about it: A highly developed service company like in Austria needs top trained people from the universities, from the professional universities, from the vocational schools. This is the basic requirement for us to be able to rise internationally. Carry with us, join me in this path of growth in the field of research and development! Then we're on a good path. Then we create jobs now, today, but also in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6337	Mr Fazekas is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6358	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Wissenschaftsminister, I would therefore like to comment briefly on the following: If you are talking about the creation of jobs, economics and billions of investments today, I do not understand that today, on such an important issue, the Minister of Finance of the Republic is not present and obviously does not want to be interested in this issue or cannot be associated with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: He's still at breakfast!]] - Probably. Therefore, I would like to point out once again the importance of investment in infrastructure and in research and technology, because they mean something very special: They mean jobs. And jobs – that is, employment – mean for families, for people on the one hand social security and on the other hand quality of life associated with it, and prosperity, ladies and gentlemen. They mean an income, a sure one, of which one knows that one can not only live from one day to another. The measures we want to take also mean purchasing power, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises in the cities and communities, so that cities and communities can also participate in this prosperity. This will be ensured with this large investment package. In particular, sustainable jobs are to be created – no precarious employment conditions or situations where family members have to adopt several jobs at the same time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these are worthwhile goals! But it is also necessary to recognise that people are not always doing so well – and then it is also necessary to take action, i.e. measures here and now! Werner Faymann has also recognized this, ladies and gentlemen, and is now acting. He is now acting because people now need it – and this anti-duration package also affects a large, important part of the people. - But many see this a little differently. [[Abg. Murauer:... also really the right thing...!]] Our package will ensure that people get more quality of life, that purchasing power can be increased, and that the economy also has something of it. Since you, Mr Mitterlehner, have been addressing the managers, I should like to remind you that it is not particularly rosy for post and telecoms, and that the Minister responsible, the Minister of Finance, has not done much about sending people home at the age of 50 years, without any prospects of sitting at home and not knowing what to do – while others overtime and even the apprentices are now being planned to take on these achievements. If I may say something about Austrian Airlines: We must not forget that this company generates 65 000 jobs throughout Austria. [[Abg. Hornek: Faymann is responsible for this!]] And if there had been no SPÖ, then this company would have already been sold like a used car! I would also like to say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] What do you say to the people who stay on the road under your economic policy? What do you say to those you don't want to help now with measures against the price? What do you say to the pensioners you want to say we leave the development of their pensions to the computer? Where is your social conscience, ladies and gentlemen? – We have to invest in infrastructure, we have to create employment so that families, young workers, have a future ahead of them and do not have to tremble all their lives! Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned: It is important to invest in research and technology so that our country is at the forefront of Europe and has grown in demand. There are good approaches and good ideas, and – we have already heard it – already €2.22 billion has been invested this year. 1 billion € in investment in research and technology guarantees 50 000 sustainable jobs. In this context I can also refer to the projects “Research creates work” and “Research Makes School”. This is the focus of research and development aimed at ensuring sustainable jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! For this purpose, our programme, the SPÖ programme, guarantees Werner Faymann. I invite you all to share this good, this important employment policy social programme here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6465	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6486	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Faymann, the current legislative period has indeed started positively in infrastructure policy. With the infrastructure package of €11 billion – for the rails 6.4 billion, for the road 4.6 billion – which we have decided together, and for which Wilhelm Molterer as Minister of Finance has provided the money, the course has been set in principle. So we have spent a lot of money on investing in the infrastructure. If one compares this value with the other countries, such as those of Germany or France, which are significantly larger than Austria, then we have spent three times on infrastructure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] According to a report by the Economic Research Institute, gross domestic product also increases by about 1 per cent; 20 000 jobs were thus secured. That was a good and a right decision, and of course we are also in favour of this decision. But, Mr Faymann, unfortunately nothing else happened during this period, and we regret it. In this way, you have – and you must also say that – classified yourself quite unblemished in the series of former Social Democratic Transport and Infrastructure Ministers, if I think only of climate or one. It was – and this can be clearly checked – the bowl government from 2000 to 2006, which has brought together more fundamental changes in transport and infrastructure policy than the SPÖ ministers in ten years earlier, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: In the mail chess!]] At that time, there was the transformation of the federal road construction, clear allocations of competence. This prevents double tracks from saving administrative costs. At that time, the truck toll was introduced, and from it some €800 million can now be used annually to finance the motorway construction. At the time a basic rail reform was launched, a six-year infrastructure framework for the ÖBB has been established, for which there is now a secure funding, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You have managed!]] The increased infrastructural resources decided at the time now allow the Minister of Transport to present some important infrastructure projects in his short term, or to carry out groundwork and openings: Construction start of new main station Vienna Mitte, start of construction station St. Pölten, station Wien West, various train stations and, ladies and gentlemen, a whole series of other such measures. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is “important” that you make a flooring!]] All these infrastructure measures, this whole offensive is not by Minister Faymann, but it has been decided and launched under the rule of Schüssel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: You don't believe that yourself!]] The quality offensive in rolling stock was also started at the time: 231 Talent and Desiro motor vehicles have been ordered, 67 Riljet trains for long-distance transport have been ordered. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has happened under the former government – and not under a Minister Faymann, under which this policy is best managed. [[Abg. Marizzi: Be a bit honest! – What about the Gorbach?]] But all the initiatives have been taken by us before! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the necessary continuation of the ÖBB reform is still in place. With regard to this difficult issue of transport policy, unfortunately, Mr Transport Ministers, you have simply avoided being moved. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: (in the direction of ÖVP) Now I know why this is your last speaker!]] But the railway needs extensive modernisation. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Now I know why this is your last speaker!]] We still spend €5 billion on the rail system in Austria in the year. This means that the individual Austrian breaks down: Every Austrian pays €700 a year, even if he didn't ride the train, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haberzettl and Mr Heinzl.]] [[Abg. Sburny: Numbers only those driving by car for the highway?]] That's where you see how much reform is needed. [[Abg. Oillinger: At the age of 40 you sent people to pension!]] And unfortunately, we have to say: In these two years there has been only a standstill.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6692	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6713	Madam President. Ministers and ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Kukacka's retrospective speech, I would like to promote in the present and in the future that we do something that people really need. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Kukacka, you have told us – really “net” – that, under your government participation, the ÖBB with speculations also put €613 million in sand. That's what you've been telling us. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Bravoruf at SPÖ.]] But let's go to the constructive part, let's go to what people really need, Minister. Infrastructure is intended to address the basic needs of the people: to the basic needs of the young, to the basic needs of the middle-income people, to the basic needs of those in need of care. Well, it's about increasing purchasing power. It is about strengthening weak domestic demand. It is about ensuring safe jobs, giving women opportunities for re-entry into the profession. It is about childcare, it is about educational investment, it is also about having warm homes and cost-effective mobility. And what are you doing? What are you imagining us? – You present us with a billion-dollar programme of infrastructure investment in motorway construction – which you have kept silent today, you have only talked about two-tubed safety tunnels – and about billions of investments in railway expansion. [[Abg. Oils: noise protection walls! ... a disaster!]] And when it comes to Mr Minister and Mr Haberzettl or the other speakers from the SPÖ to enable employment, to enable income to be strengthened, then, please, we must invest where we have the highest employment effect! And this one is not available in motorway construction, not at €1.345 billion, which according to government decision – I have printed it all out – are intended from your side for the expansion of various useless motorway projects. 2013: €1.690 billion. Please, that doesn't help people. What is the benefit of students, what is the use of the old people in need of care if there is a lobau tunnel? What is the benefit of people who urgently need babysitting if you build something as crazy as the S 37 in Carinthia, which still allows traffic on the road – while you are investing billions in the coral railway at the same time – which practically does not mean that the traffic is on the rails, because you are building a wonderful new S 37? It's no good for them! Its billions are at the expense of the concrete needs of the people, especially in view of the cold season that we are now in the house. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What about the renovation of apartments, with thermal insulation, with the saving of heating costs? You didn't lose a word about it! This creates jobs, which is also infrastructure that has a lasting effect. I can show you very good job efficiency due to a Wifo study. It has been calculated which investment by the public sector really achieves sustainable employment. This has come out – I have already handed it over to you, but I would like to give it to you afterwards – that 1 billion of investment in research and technology is most intensive in employment. 1 billion of investment in the renovation of housing will bring at least 20 000 jobs. The investment of 1 billion in education is a sustainable investment. On the other hand, the investment in infrastructure such as motorway et cetera is only of short-term effect, i.e. a small employment hype – perhaps still in the construction machinery; but we know that construction machines do not have any purchasing power. And that's what it is about: we put the money in there, where the economy is really strengthened, where people can meet their needs. I can also prove it to you with other numbers. I have also lifted figures of the Wifo, as it looks like putting 1 billion in motorway construction: There we have an employment efficiency of 9 000 jobs. If you put 1 billion in the rails – and you have kindly mentioned that – you have 17 000 jobs. If they are invested in the housing renovation – Mr Großruck was always together with me for this, just as colleague Becher – then more than 20,000 jobs are created. And that's what it's all about! Mr Minister, when we talk about infrastructure, we can talk about railway development, just: Then I would like to invest where the donors really have something of it! On the Pottendorfer line for example or in Upper Austria on the Summerauerbahn, there is too little daily offer. We need more trains! We need a better track situation so that more passage is possible in order to allow for closer timetables. We need conversion relationships without waiting, where there is a guarantee of the connection. - You owe us all that. They invest in the construction industry – the Baulobby is unfortunately your first customer, and not the people. For people, we have an infrastructure package that is truly sustainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6783	Now comes Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6804	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I hope you can understand me half-way despite my bad voice and the flu. Mr Kukacka said that nothing has gone on in the last two years. – He needs to know, he's part of a government party, and he's perfectly right. Little has gone on in the last two years, ladies and gentlemen – little! – and the ÖVP is of course just as responsible as the SPÖ. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Because we heard a song of praise on Werner Faymannge today: Let's take a closer look at the balance sheet of Werner Faymann once more! [[Abg. Strache: He's a fellow culprit, Mr. Faymann! He's been a co-deactor for the last two years!]] But I would like to say one thing: There's a whole new TV advertising, and there it says: “Ask the Indian!” In the background, you can see a cow marching by, which has been repainted. – Werner Faymann is also not new, but has been re-deleted. But he's not a new politician, but he's an old politician, a pro-politicist, as one knows him. What is Werner Faymann responsible for, ladies and gentlemen? He is also responsible for the climate fund. – Within 15 minutes, the photovoltaic promotion was gone. Congratulations, Federal Minister Faymann! You are also responsible for AUA, Minister of Aviation Faymann. - The AUA is bad. Congratulations, Federal Minister Faymann! The sale of the BAWAG to a foreign locust fund took place under your supervision, Federal Minister Faymann. I congratulate you! With the DDSG – many of you may not know that – it is now the case that people are being flagged out. There Austrian employees and their families in Hungary are socially insured and pension insurance insured, health insurance. – I congratulate Mr Werner Faymann, Minister of Maritime Affairs, on “gratulating”! You always emphasize how much you have left for foreigners. – There is a Serbian employee at the DDSG, who is also flagged to Hungary and lost his residence in Austria; a well-integrated Serbian employee. Federal Minister Faymann, I congratulate you! They also removed pensions from trade union workers, Mr. Faymann. – Also done for this “gratulation”, “good”! But one thing you did, Minister of State: 72 managers were coloured red in their responsibilities during your term of office. You did this, Mr. Federal Minister; the “death list” has been done for you. That is why I do not believe, Federal Minister Faymann, that you will be a good German chancellor for this Federal Republic of Austria. I just don't think so! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Still, Federal Minister Faymann, there are a million people under the poverty line in Austria. There are 300 000 women without a pension, Federal Minister Faymann. There are more and more people who can't afford the care because you don't like the care money, as the SPÖ promised before the election. There are fewer and fewer people who find the outcome in the pension because you are not in favour of adjusting the pensions according to the pensionist price index, Federal Minister Faymann. I just don't think you'll be a social fighter after this election, as we were promised at the last election. [[Abg. Strache: He's crashed, the social fighter!]] There's a good saying, ladies and gentlemen – I don't think you're lying, I'm just quoting the saying – which means: “Whoever lies, you don’t believe it!” – If you look at your election promises before the last National Council election and what you kept after that, I just don’t believe you, ladies and gentlemen! If you sit down in the ORF press hour and say: I want another coalition with the ÖVP!, Federal Minister Faymann, for what then the whole theatre? [[Abg. Strache: Not enough disputed yet!]] What do we choose for then? For what? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Then we have a big coalition again? You send the Austrians in new elections and then you want to make a big coalition again? What for, ladies and gentlemen? There's another proverb that says: “Pack is beating, Pack is going to be!” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can understand the excitement, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, former Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, remember your breakfast affair before you criticize me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel]] Clear words, true words can be said. The people's mouth is often right, so you can say so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haberzettl: You are not!]] What do I want? – I wish that those Austrians who want to have a great coalition will actually choose red or black, then they are well removed. Those Austrians who want to have a real turn for Austria have to choose the liberals this time, and they will do the same!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6949	Mr Dolinschek has now been spoken. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6970	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The importance of investment in infrastructure, research and technology for economics, growth and employment is important. We all agree that this is important for the economy, important for investors, important for strengthening competitiveness, for economic growth, for employment, for jobs, but also for promoting economic and social cohesion. Mr Faymann, there have been some projects you have wanted to undertake over the past 18 months. The course has been set, but some things have not gone further because of the previous standstill in the Federal Government, due to the mutual blockade in this Federal Government, and all are wondering: How will this continue in the future? Increase the F&E quota to 3 percent of the gross domestic product until 2010, 4 percent by 2020 – I alone lack the faith! It would be fine. Further development of an efficient and manageable local transport financing system, together with the local authorities, remains. The use of new local trains in the Austrian Federal Railways remains. Development and improvement of tact-trafficking – also remain. Introduction of a ticket valid for all public transport in Austria, an Austrian ticket, as well. Improvement and coordination of Austrian-wide transport agents – also. Federal Minister Faymann, you have done nothing for the workers, for the commuters, for the Austrian families, for the citizens, for the economy – on the contrary, you have burdened them! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You valorized the vignette price. I'd like that for the commuters when I pay for the miles. It's 1 now. ==References====External links==* Official website January 2009. There too I would like to see a valorization. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The same applies to the daily allowance and the allowance, which has remained the same since 1990. There too I would like to see a valorization. Instead, there are high fuel prices in Austria. This is now one third of the total inflation. You have also agreed, Federal Minister, that the heating oil price is 3.6 cents per litre from 1. ==References== Of course, the whole thing is eating up the increases in wages and pensions. There too I would like to see an increase. They did not enforce the official price system at high fuel prices. There too, as in Luxembourg or Slovenia, a maximum price scheme could have been used to relieve the economy of the Austrian families, the commuters. When you open the low-cost gas stations, the public gas stations, for example in Carinthia, you haven't done anything so far at the opening of the state gas stations. They could have opened the gas stations of the ASFINAG Austria-wide, so that Austrian drivers could also fuel cheaper and thus achieve a price reduction down at all fuel dealers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In addition, Mr Federal Minister, I remind you that in the speculations of the Austrian Federal Railways, where losses are written, now the next disaster is at the Austrian Postbus, because the Austrian Postbus is driven to the wall at €6.3 million, which is $9.3 million. You are also responsible there, Mr. Federal Minister! You have slept, you have failed to pull the emergency brake there too, Federal Minister Faymann. And you, Minister Faymann, want to become Austrian Chancellor? – I alone lack faith! I think you are not able to lead the skills of our country Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Postenschacher on the one hand at the Austrian Bundesbahnen, massive price increases at the Austrian Bundesbahnen on the other – in any case, the Austrian population will be affected by further losses in Mil- You will still be asked to check out your non-initiatives at the post-bus and on the train.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7076	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:30:16]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7098	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7211	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the request to enter into the agenda before the entry into force of this Agreement. Written question 4995/J by Mr Murauer, colleagues to the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State concerning ‘Diletantic Eurofighter Comparison to the Harm of the Republic of Austria’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Furthermore, according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question (4996/J) by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour on ‘Respect for the will of the National Council by the Minister of Economic Affairs, who persistently refuses to implement the resolution on determining a nationally justified maximum fuel price’. However, due to the collision provision of § 57b GOG, this urgent request cannot be made. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7249	The debate on points 3 to 8, 10 to 12, 14 and 15, 16 and 17, 18 and 19 and 23 to 25 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7274	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. A 10 ‘Vienna Hours’ day block time has been proposed, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 150 minutes, Green and Freeman per 120 minutes as well as BZÖ 60 minutes. The meeting will be held live by ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 13.15 a.m. to 5 p.m. The following speaking time agreement was also reached – within the overall term of 10 ‘Vienna hours’ – for the time of the Vice-Cancellor’s declaration and the subsequent debate: Statement by the Deputy Chancellor 15 minutes, word received by Federal Minister Faymann 15 minutes, speaking time per group 30 minutes. The words in the first round are called as follows: Green, SPÖ, Freeman, ÖVP, BZÖ. The call for word messages takes place in the further rounds after the strength of the political groups. Actual corrections will be made after the end of this debate. The speaking time for Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:33:31]] 1. Point Declaration by the Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on: “The right answers in Austria’s tax and financial policy to the global financial crisis”
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7331	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now appoint Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give you a short bell sign after 15 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7361	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Dear listeners at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen, Austria, Europe and the world are facing more difficult times. Those who are now closely and responsibly pursuing economic development worldwide in Europe and also in Austria will see that some critical developments will come to us, and that responsible policies must respond in good time. On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, it is development in international financial markets. Those who browse the newspapers, read reports, have to note that the development in the international financial markets is affected by a special drama. It is my firm conviction that this financial market crisis has not yet stood out in its impact that the financial market crisis will still bring many questions. Just assume that there is, for example, a discussion in the United States about whether they need to fall under the arms of their financial and banking sector with $700 billion. There are even horror reports that they have to stabilize this sector by $2,000 billion. By this you recognize how dramatic this situation is, ladies and gentlemen. We are not in favour of this effect. It is therefore important for us to be clear, even in times of intense political debate, that this financial crisis will of course also have consequences for real economic growth, ladies and gentlemen. We, the financial and economic leaders in the European Union, have met a few days ago and have shown us precisely and to the depth these forecasts, all of which have a clear, unfortunately not gratifying tendency. Growth rates in the European Union will go down, and it is also expected that we will also have to face lower growth rates in the next economic forecasts that Austrian economic researchers are working for our home country. This lower growth, ladies and gentlemen, is of course due, among other things, to the fact that, for example, Austria's export dynamics, the growth engine of Austria, run only half as fast as it did a year ago. Last year we have had export increases of 10 percent – currently only more than 5 percent is the talk, ladies and gentlemen! We currently have a different status in the field of industrial order books than a year ago. The order books are no longer full, ladies and gentlemen, but we expect more difficult developments, and this, despite the very good situation in the labour market, will of course not be without consequence, because the risk of declining growth rates also leading to a more difficult situation on the labour market is absolutely given. It is therefore important, ladies and gentlemen, that we focus on the question in this more difficult situation: What is Austria's policy on the advantage that we have gained, the advantage of growth, the advantage of employment, with which policy can and will Austria not only keep this advantage, but how should this advantage be extended? This requires a clear, reliable and predictable economic perspective, ladies and gentlemen, and it needs a clear focus on the future issue I see for Austria, which is: How can we secure growth in order to maintain full employment in Austria? That's the real goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From my point of view, it is therefore vital for Austria and Austria to have five major guidelines for the next five years. Five guidelines for five years, ladies and gentlemen, after 28. September comes in truth the 29th, and the crucial question is: How can we keep Austria on safe, reliable track of growth and full employment by the year 2013? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Firstly, there is a perspective for a European policy, which makes us very clear: Europe needs to become stronger, Europe needs to be better, Europe needs to make policy more efficient on the crucial issues of growth and employment. [[Abg. Street: Austria, please!]] [[Abg. Strache: Austria must be in the foreground, Mr. Vice-Chancellor!]] But Europe can only do this, ladies and gentlemen, if we strengthen Europe, if we give Europe positive prospects, and not if we are constantly talking about Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Europe, we need a clear position of the European Union against what is happening in the United States, a clear position of reliability in the financial markets, because from my point of view, it should not be disputed: Markets need rules, markets need supervision. And that is why we in Europe will need to strengthen the debate on improving supervision, rating agencies and transparency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Europe, ladies and gentlemen, we must also improve the rules of the game at a global level, and it is therefore a task for Europe to take over this task and take on this task more fully than before. [[Call the SPÖ: Nothing you've done!]] Europe needs to invest even more in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises, Europe needs to focus more on growth, not on bureaucratic regulations, but on debureaucratisation, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In energy policy, Europe must push forward intensively what we jointly expect from Europe. Only Europe is able to address globalisation against the world's greats, China, India. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] Yeah, does anyone really think that we Austrians can do this alone?- Oh, my God! No, no, no, We need Europe if we are to achieve growth and full employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: We believe in this Austria – in contrast to you!]] I therefore call on all of you, ladies and gentlemen, here in this House, in today's debate not to make the mistake of weakening Europe, but to strengthen Europe through a policy of reason and reliability. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ, including Abg. Dr. Cap: This is for crying]] Mr Cap, you are laughing. This is really a sign that you obviously did not understand Europe in its meaning. Do not go, in the shadows of Mr Strache, an anti-European course! Austria didn't deserve this! Austria needs a better policy than what you're sketching here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, It is a clear guideline for me that in the next few years the tax and tax rate will have to fall below 40 percent, because we more trust people in the country that they can also decide freely with more money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This objective, ladies and gentlemen, means that we have to relieve the middle class. Relieving medium-sized enterprises, which for me means about €2500 in income, a relief of €500 per year, at €5 000 in income, a relief of €1 000. That's what the middle class needs, ladies and gentlemen. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Why didn't you do it?]] We want and must continue the relief of families, according to the motto: less tax on more children! That's fair and fair. But I am in favour of this tax relief being done without counter-financing, especially without any changes to property tax or other, which would burden the middle class. Let us do it – discharge is the goal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This discharge must also be manageable. And if today in this House – I was a long parliamentarian – a decision should be taken, for example, for the reduction of VAT, then you, ladies and gentlemen, will have to bear the responsibility to ensure that discharge for the medium-sized and for the families is no longer possible. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: “It’s enough!”]] This is the truth that people simply need to be told. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: You haven't done anything since 1986!]] By the way, it is all against this policy of VAT reduction, because it would result in a distribution from the bottom to the top, does not arrive at the consumer's, and actually takes this scope for the necessary relief. The way of responsibility is different, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, we need to invest properly in the coming years as one of my important guidelines. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Our important speech!]] The right investment means investing in research and development. Here we have, I suppose, a consensus in this House that we want not only to achieve the 3-percent objective, but also the ambitious goal of reaching 4 percent for investment in research and development, for the innovation location of Austria. This should be put out of the question, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need to invest in universities. I therefore appeal to all those who today think about abolishing study contributions: Take the university warning seriously! When, in view of these ideas, the truly honourable president of the rector's conference, Christoph Badelt says: I don't pack it anymore!, then he says exactly what the universities think. [[Abg. The rectors' conference has decided something different than Mr Badelt has said!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The universities need more money, ladies and gentlemen – and no less! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you should go this way, then take the university and the young people's chances, and I ask you who will support this path: How do you want to make this socially fair? In fact, it is also a distribution from the bottom to the top. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You should stick to the truth!]] I have heard that an Orthopedic Master's course costs €9 000 – and a university degree, where someone has a doctorate, a beautiful and hopefully well paid job, that should be free?- Oh, my God! Where did your social vein remain, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The right investment means investing in export. The right investment means investing in environmental policy. Thank you, Sepp Pröll, for concluding the Article-15a agreement! This is a concrete initiative in the field of the environment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Proper investment means that we go offensively in the field of childcare, in the sense of compatibility between work and family. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth guideline: It is important that we implement the policy of social justice in Austria. Socially fair is what hits the right person for me. [[Abg. Strache: That's why you don't give a shit!]] It is not the tool of social policy that can be found, but the targeted support for the people who need it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And it's social, which is sustainable and long-term. If you transfer the burden to the boys, that is the most unjust thing that exists in social policy at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Therefore, support for the families with the 13th century. Family allowances. Therefore, the increase in the care allowance. Therefore, the increase in small incomes by reducing unemployment insurance. Therefore, the improvement for the “hacklers”. Therefore, the improvement for pensioners. That's necessary. The last, fifth perspective, ladies and gentlemen, is a reliable budgetary policy. Whoever is responsible in the country must confess to this: no new debt! because new debt means less chances of tomorrow! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] You have all, each and every one of you, received the letter from the President of the Court of Auditors, received the letter from the President of the State Debt Committee, and I therefore appeal to you: Do not go the way, the future is robbing, namely the path of new debts, but go the way that will create the future: Reduce the tax rate, reduce the debt! This is responsible for the country! [[Abg. Strache: Why did you vote against it last week? That's not credible what you're giving here for the best!]] Five guidelines for five years, ladies and gentlemen, and not five points for today, which really create the concerns of tomorrow. This is how I understand policy, policy of responsibility and reliability.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7748	Next came Mr Faymann's speech. 15 minutes of speaking time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7770	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I was just thinking why the clubman Wolfgang Schüssel got up so late. I think I know why: He was a little offended by the debts. After all, he's been there for 19 years. [[Cheerfulness, congratulation and brap at SPÖ, as well as congratulation with the Greens and with representatives of the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what was particularly typical today? – It was particularly typical that a sentence was missing in the speech of the Minister of Finance, a sentence that has usually fallen very often in recent years. Not that he left me, but the sentence always said: More private, less state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why did the sentence suddenly happen today when we heard a report about the financial market crisis – “Report” is exaggerated, what is stated in the newspaper headlines – why has this phrase “More private, less state!” been missing today, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Don't be extravagant!]] That is why this sentence has failed because the citizens in our country have insisted that the state is very necessary in securing pensions and that we have to guarantee a state pension. [[Lively applause and bravorage at SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, respect for the elderly in our country requires that they are not dependent on stock markets and their development, but that they can rely on the state pension. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: And that they are not downgraded from you to be bitters in this country!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just like on union pensions!]] The social security, the typical for Austria, that there are social security for people in our country, has not yet been mentioned. This is a health reform with a health policy in which there is only one class in which every person is worth the same amount that everyone can afford, regardless of the wallet. It must also be a social security guaranteed by the state. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Therefore, if the voters give us the strength and opportunity to take up this health reform, which begins with a reorganisation of the cash registers, but does not stop, on the first day after the election, because the patients in our country have the right to rely on the design in politics and on the realization of the health reform by us. [[Abg. Strache: You will fall again after the choice! How the cast farmer will fall on you as soon as you choose! Gusi II!]] This is important to us, we owe it to people. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: “Trustworthy” as before, it will continue after the election!]] If we, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about the fact that the economy could become weaker, then we know exactly what we are saying: If the economy becomes weaker, then decisions to be made today for the future cannot be postponed. It is not possible for us to talk about the future without at the same time talking about the responsibility we have in the present. And that would have been a tax reduction, Mr. Finanzminister, whom you have failed to prefer! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] There were many in the economy who spoke; and I also deliberately look in the direction of those in the Chamber of Commerce who also spoke and said: Let us not try to build up the entire pressure on wage negotiations, but, as a government, by favouring a tax reduction, let us also put an end to the burden of individual workers who return a little from the money they have lost through the cold progression! Let us prefer this measure. – Unfortunately, you were not prepared by the ÖVP to do so. But it is about acting now, acting now for the design of a future in which purchasing power counts something and not increasing unemployment. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] I want to read you a quote because it brings something to the point, which is important to me: [[Call the ÖVP: By Mr. Dienand? What does the Lord Dienand say?]] “One advantage in life is who is taking up where the others are talking first.” Do you know, Minister of Finance, who said this? – Someone who is supposed to be your model: John F. Kennedy. I haven't guessed why he's your model yet, but he's right: It's about starting now instead of pushing up, slowing down and waiting! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Environmental policy, the opportunities for the next generation, too, are now decided by changing positions. The question of the compatibility of work and family is also now being decided on where to expand child care facilities in Austria in a massive way. Transport policy decisions, such as the extension of passenger transport, are also being taken now, by the majority in this House demanding that, even in those cities in Austria where passenger transport would be even stronger, which, as an environmental objective, brings a shift away from individual transport to public transport, the Federal Government contributes accordingly. We also want co-financing in Linz, also in Salzburg, also in Innsbruck, also in other cities, as happened at the Vienna subway. [[Abg. Strache: The Vienna subway was very expensive! This is a dangerous threat! It cost more for the double!]] The Minister of Finance is responsible for this. And I am convinced that a new government must be able to expand passenger transport, expand rail in order to provide an alternative in freight transport, and strengthen research and development where it is necessary to have a nose length and achieve the objectives. The discussion previously showed that there is a consensus on the issue of research, development and infrastructure, it is one of the important areas that we have to expand together. But here too, determination is required – and not to get on the brake. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me therefore say about the European Union that, for us, the points of control of financial markets, social compensation, which many people are leaving, ecological development in the European Union, development on a European Union close to citizens are important points. We're not going to Brussels to just take everything off. [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] We stand by this European Union. – Mr Bartenstein, even if you laugh, we have been laughing at your actions because we are convinced that competition is not just about liberalising markets. [[Complaints and bravails at SPÖ]] The social balance is equally important to us, which we have always said, that man is at the heart of the economy. [[Abg. Newborn: With you man is a means!]] The liberalisation of markets on the one hand and social compensation on the other have the same meaning for us, Mr Bartenstein, in contrast to you. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Is that in line with the “Kronen Zeitung”, Mr. Colleague?]] Social Balance is something that only shows how important a person is in our society. And we're talking about this center. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:BAWAG! BAWAG!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: And to whom does the BAWAG belong, Mr. Colleague?]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: ÖBB-pensionen! To say something like that without turning red!]] Let me conclude, therefore, with a point that goes seamlessly to the question of opportunities, equal opportunities, distribution and social justice: this is the strengthening of education policy. It was Claudia Schmied who, during this short period of time, launched many measures to push forward the New Secondary School, a project of a common school with performance differentiation. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: That's why she's supposed to be pushed off!]] It is a good feeling that there are people like Claudia Schmied who have shown that the feasible, the coordination with the federal states, has a discussion that also leads to a new quality in education. I think it is an hour's commandment to support education policy in our country by not welcoming young people who go to the university with a barrier, but it is necessary that all young people at the university get a chance by abolishing the tuition fees without an obstacle to entry. [[Lively condolences and bravors at SPÖ as well as detonative acclaim of the abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] If you say you want the kindergarten for free, if you say you want a number of measures for free, then, I have to say, I cannot understand why this should not apply to the university, where we are interested that more people get a chance at the universities. [[Abg. Street: There you want the barrier, at the universities you don't want any barriers! That's a contradiction!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] It is not now the time to talk primarily about the top tax rate, about caviar and watchmen. It is about the prices that people pay for basic food in the supermarket. It's about us! These are part of our measures to increase purchasing power. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is therefore also good if not personal degradation, but facts, including attitudes, are also expressed in this election campaign. We are on the side of the population, we are on the side of workers, we are on the side of consumers for a socially just Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8105	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the debate in which each group has a maximum speaking time of 30 minutes. First speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen. He wants a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8134	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I ask my colleagues from the green club not to prepare standing ovations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Wouldn't even have come up with this idea!]] I think it's really nice for you to take off a TV show here, but we're here in the high house. I mean, you have not convinced me now, Mr Faymann and Mr Molterer. Those were speeches for the gallery. - Don't worry. We know it's four days before the election Sunday. That's the way it is. But I'm going to try to give only a partial election speech – that's, of course, inevitable – and to talk a little bit about it. Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer, who is responding to the international financial crisis in a timely and correct manner, said you. But you have not said that there can be no talk of time and right in all the world, even in Austria. Financial market supervision throughout the world, but also the one in Austria, has fallen asleep in what is happening in the banking sector and in the shadows of banks, the investment banks, in recent years everywhere. Responsible for this area, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, is the Minister of Finance, in this case for two years Minister of Finance Molterer. That's why I don't want to attack you for a fee. I say yes, all over the world, the supervisory authorities have been asleep in this development. [[Abg. That's right!]] They have slept that banks and insurance companies, to an extent that is inconceivable from today's point of view, have not taken risks, but have hidden them so well that now no bank trusts the others, because it does not know how good the others still stand. This is a first-rate confidence crisis with the corresponding consequences on the credit sector. That it becomes more difficult to get loans, not only for real estate, not only for house building, but also for companies, that is virtually inevitable. This alone creates the consequences for the real sector, which you, Mr Molterer, have briefly outlined. I do not want to be in the hands of American supervisory authorities and financial authorities either. If they do nothing, they risk a domino effect in the international banking and insurance world. We can't be right. In this respect, the 700 billion dollars or 500 billion euros should not frighten us. That's really the supergau that could be possible there. But if they do something when they save individual banking houses from collapse in some way, they risk that this behavior will continue. The economists call the moral-hazard behavior, moral hasard: the risks to others, the profits themselves, when you know, the losses are anyway socialized or taken over by the state. But if you, Mr Molterer, are also hiding in this context that there are, of course, also effects on the pension sector in Austria, then I think you could have saved this open flank. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the last 15 years, however, the ÖVP and other liberal groups – in this case one has to speak of neoliberal groups – have not been tired of the population, no matter what age, pointing out that private pension provision on shares, on funds, on pension funds is the yellow of the egg, because public pension provision is not a requirement. We've always criticized this. They have promoted this tax. Hundreds of millions of euros have flown in there. But the best tax promotion cannot prevent a stock market from crashing. That's what you owe with your policy. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] With all the risks that state pensions also have – I don't want to list it all now – you have to say that this risk is not there. In the case of occupational pension provision, private pension provision, as far as it is based on pension funds – I suppose many in this house know their extracts – it has occurred in the past in one or two years that, despite deposits, the pension promise, once you are 65, falls; that is not a secret. And it will probably be that way this year, if not another miracle happens on the stock markets. So, in short, the first pillar, the public pension provision, the headquarters must remain in the care of old age; also with the ÖVP, I hope. [[It was in favour of the Greens and SPÖ and FPÖ delegates.]] On tax and tax policy. This was actually the subject of this statement by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Transport. So I'm wondering, I have to say. A small opposition party – as small as we are no longer – the Greens, has made the effort to present a rather detailed tax and tax reduction programme already in May of this year, without knowing that there will be new elections, namely two and a half billion in the area of wage and income tax and one billion in the area of incomes of those persons who earn so little that they do not pay any wage or income tax at all. When you present a detailed program, you make yourself approachable. Yes. We have also said that the top incomes and the top assets in Austria, which are practically tax-free, should also make a good contribution to the financing of the education and social state. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If today the SPÖ comes and says that the ÖVP has crossed against a tax reduction in 2009, then that is true – we have it, Mr Haberzettl says – but then the question arises: [[Abg. Haberzettl: That's where we got it!]] When, for the first time, did Mr Gusenbauer, our highly revered Chancellor, say that tax reform, tax reduction should not take place in 2010, but rather be preferred to 1.1.2009? In February! [[Abg. Krainer: In February!]] Thank you, Mr. von der SPÖ. In February! Now we have at the end of September, soon it will be early October. What has the SPÖ done in these seven, eight months to submit in detail what it wants to do in the area of taxation, where wage and income tax are to be precisely reduced and what it wants to do specifically for those people who deserve so little that they do not pay any wage and income tax at all? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can't read this program on the Internet, not on your election posters, nowhere at all, because you don't have anything! You've been asleep for eight months instead of developing a program. Now Mr Faymann is right and says that time is running out of it, but unfortunately it will not go out. - Yeah, that's right. If you sleep eight months before, you're running out of time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this relationship, the ÖVP was even more honest in its cynicism – before you clap, Mr. stupid – because they didn't want it from home, so they didn't feel any time pressure either. You should have felt the time pressure, colleagues from SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nothing happened! Instead, you propose a reduction in VAT on food in the last second. The FPÖ will support this. In return, the SPÖ agrees with a FPÖ proposal, which de facto constitutes a break-up of the European Union, which de facto represents the first step forward from the European Union. That's what you call forward-looking, far-sighted – what have I heard today? –, sustainable and so on, politics? This is the way to the isolation of Austria! This should be good for the labour market, for jobs, for Austrian companies in the EU and outside? That's exactly the opposite! [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] A vague VAT reduction, which no one will benefit from, and the price for it will be the approval of a mischievous FPÖ application, which de facto concerns the withdrawal from the Union! Both applications – and I hope so – will not go through today, but neither by your merit nor by the merits of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] The really big questions that Austria is facing over the next five years have played a lamentablely thin role in this election campaign, I am sorry to say. We too have found it difficult to deal with the key issues of the major reform of education, a reorientation of energy policy and, of course, discrimination against women in the labour market. It would therefore have been worth the effort to argue, not for the five points of Mr Faymann, of which the first and quantitative largest is a holler. It's a shame! Here, real opportunities have been afforded. On the subject of tuition fees. I fully agree that access to universities should be free. Not only I, but also the SPÖ and the FPÖ, I suppose, will abolish the tuition fees tonight. Yes. But all of us are absolutely clear that this does not improve the study conditions at the universities but does not improve a millimeter. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Why do you do it?]] The universities need more money, much more money. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Getting Worse!]] What? [[New calls from the Abg. May. Hakl.]] – Unfortunately, I do not understand your calls at all, so I cannot respond to them. The viewers on the screens will not understand them anyway. But one point is important to me in this regard: The universities are international – and must remain international. Austrian students go abroad, foreign students come to us. If necessary, we need a European financial compensation. But that's the tip of the iceberg. We also need economic immigration in Austria, at least in areas where it is necessary. Minister Bartenstein has published a list of around 60 professions by regulation, where Austrian companies are desperately looking for workers, but do not find them here. Are we doing a company distribution program? Should the workers look for themselves abroad by moving companies abroad? We need a sober, pragmatic attitude towards immigration and to strangers. If I look – Mr. Graf of FPÖ looks at me so lost of thought – he probably knows what will come – look at it, Dr. Graf von der FPÖ, a poster of the Freedom Youth ring a cigarette pack – in my view there would be nothing against it – it says: [[The speaker holds a poster in the height]] “MOUNTED SORTE, immigration can be deadly”, I ask: [[Calls for Greens and SPÖ]] That's your attitude to that? - I don't know what the RFJ thinks about it. I can only tell you that I'm afraid of it. I am a national, Austrian with Austrian passport. But still, “immigration can be deadly”? Is that a threat? What's that? Countries like the USA, for example, whose research institutes and universities are still the attraction for the intelligence of the world, still! Not because they pay so much. Very well paid are only the absolute top jobs at the universities, the stars, they are paid ten times better than with us, but not the young researchers, not the middle-aged ones. They deserve much less than we do. But why are they going there? First of all, because the research and teaching conditions are much better, second and, above all, because they are welcome. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You haven't been to America for a long time!]] There they don't have to risk being confronted with a poster that says: Immigration can be deadly! – That is unthinkable in such countries! But we, we think we can afford this. Really, that's dangerous what you're doing here, very dangerous also for the economic location Austria, in the long run! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I've already exceeded my voluntary speaking time. I say again: It is a shame that in the campaign we did not discuss the major issues of education reform, kindergarten and schools to universities, and beyond. It is a shame that we have not explained enough to the people how they come out of the oil price trap, how they can exchange their oil boiler for pellet heating – or what is in the special case appropriate when oil and gas exit. And with regard to all the lip recognitions on equal rights for women in the labour market, Mr Cap: What has happened in the last two years? Since when is the SPÖ in the Federal Government? – Since 2007, now new, before that we had a short interval – in short historical terms, it was too long – black and black-orange and 30, 40 years ago SPÖ. [[Abg. Steibl: That was a good time!]] And what happened? I used to bet with Gusenbauer that you, the SPÖ, will not reach your 40 percent quota for female Members. I won that bet. I hope you'll reach them this time. I don't think so. In any case, in the case of the Greens, the guarantee is that from your point of view this quota will be significantly overshadowed, because at least half of our MEPs are women and will be women. And I'm very proud of that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8378	Next speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8399	I would like to start by saying that I cannot understand the superiority with which my previous speaker went to the gallery. I welcome the fact that there are many citizens who listen here. The qualification of a speech, it would be “only” for the gallery, almost for the incompetent, so I cannot accept this arrogance, and on the other hand I would like to express myself clearly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As you have just said, what are the main questions: If rents rise when heating costs rise, when food prices rise and this becomes noticeable when shopping, when the effects of price or inflation are noticeable to people, directly noticeable. [[Abg. Oils: What are you doing about it?]] I don't know who's going to buy from you and who's being approached by people. Take a look at the shopping sackerl and see how people at the shelves think and think about whether they can still afford some product and what they will have to cook and how they will feed their one, two or three children, and then calculate the costs together! If you make yourself superlative here and say that we don't need it all, we don't care about the reality of life of the people, then I think this is a stubbornness, a cold that is not acceptable. You know very well: A vinzi market has recently been opened – this is for the poorest of the poorest, whose income must be below €747, which you have to prove – and then there have been 6 500 applications for this market. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A shame!]] That is, there are a lot for which it is important whether they buy cheaply or not cheaply. And we will never accept this harshness and superiority! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It may be that the halving of VAT on food does not find a majority today, but that there is a game of intrigue in Brussels, that a Commissioner is suddenly involved with a completely irrelevant letter which is politically interfering in the election campaign, that the BZÖ can be spanned by Mr Molterer and Mr Schüssel, that you seem to have intervened daily in Brussels, that Minister of Finance Molterer in Nice has tried to organize a front against Austrian consumers, so that the EU does not affect the cost of food prices to consumers – that is what you really call for Austria and for Austrian consumers? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A Social Democratic!]] This is a scandal in reality! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] You will not succeed, even if you always make a loyal eyebeat and say that we need to improve the mood of Austrians towards the EU. You will not succeed if you try to put the EU forward. Mr Haider says I must first ask for approval in Brussels. He, who says all the time, has to be self-confident about the EU, then calls there and asks: Can I not be in favour of this or should I not be in favour of VAT being halved in the food sector? - That's fantastic! You can explain this to the people where you are collecting signatures in a popular desire, and where you just a week ago, in the Kärntner state government, you decided that VAT on food should be halved. All of a sudden, Brussels says: No, let's not! Molterers and bowls have co-organized the letter against Austrian consumers. This is immense, and this should really be said to the Austrians with all the clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know very well that Austria has this second reduced rate of VAT. You know very well that farmers do not need to be afraid that these 12 percent will suddenly be removed from the farm. You know, this is an intermediate. [[Abg. Grill: You have no idea!]] No, you deliberately say the untruth. This is an intermediate rate, which we were assured at the time of accession. Don't worry the farmers, you'd rather represent them well done here in the high house! [[Abg. Grill: You're doing that right now!]] You only have your mouth open, you never do anything for the farmers. That's inconceivable! Incredible! Yeah, yeah, right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] This is where we are now coming to another wound point. Whenever the question of debt collection... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No, there's a completely different point now. They produce themselves all the time and say “no” if we have legitimate demands to improve the lives of Austrians, whether it be an increase in care, whether it concerns the elimination of study fees, the halving of VAT. We even wanted to prefer the wage and income tax reduction, where you have always said “No, no!” I could list you a whole list. You should place at all a big “no” and below “ÖVP” or best “Willi Molterer”. Once he happens to say yes, Wolfgang Schüssel says “No”. That would be the best poster. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second word you should place is the word “nothing”. Bartenstein on TV yesterday, crisis summit on the financial market crisis. What is the consequence? - Nothing! – Molterer after the crash in America, “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”: What are you going to do for the economy? - Nothing! – The Minister of Finance believes that the economy is geared towards him. That's what he believes. – This is a complete error. We need to do something to increase purchasing power. And we say it: Now it has to be done! It is not done with such cloudy statements about a future, where he says, eventually it will be better: Believe in me! I am your sect leader, I will improve life for you! – That was the speech of the Minister of Finance. That's inconceivable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But as far as the debt debate is concerned: When we say tax reduction: 3 billion €, then you say the SPÖ stands for debt. If you say that €3 billion for tax reduction or tax reform – I am not sure if you want to reduce taxes, but you speak of 3 billion – you do not owe it. What is it then? Have you bundled the banknotes in the basement of the Ministry of Finance, which you then take out with the push rest and then distribute them? Or how do you do that? You know it very well, and every business expert says it: Of course, any reform in this area means debt takeover. And Finance Minister Molterer is responsible for €11 billion of debt if we want to talk in absolute terms. Finally stop saying that if we make legitimate social and economic demands, it's debt to us, and with you it's Manna, it's benefits or comes from the basement of the Ministry of Finance, where the Dagobert Duck sits. That's incredible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, the last time you voted in the deadline for the proposal “Rouss from oil and gas” is at least €8 billion, which costs it, at the free public with €950 million. You have asked for a lot more than all the other political groups. And then put yourself here and say, We're the sardine. Look, you see it at the tip of the three, I'm the sardine. - That's what you want to make clear to us. I can only say: It's not like that! More honesty, Minister of Finance, if you are already on the government bank! More honesty! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] But the best thing was on the 17th. September in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”. I recommend everyone to read this. Just after the crash, just after the defeat of the sentence “Less state, more private!” – in reality, “more private” means less security as it has proved to be – Mr. Finanzminister Molterer still says he wants more privatisations. Maybe in the field of general care? Maybe when it comes to health? Where do you want to privatize? [[Abg. Strache: At the private exe-kutive!]] Perhaps you still want to force the third pillar more strongly instead of the first pillar? Then tell me honestly! Tell me you're staying with me! Neo-Liberism has suffered its greatest defeat. Billions of dollars of taxpayers are pumped in – taxpayers that Americans have developed. It's a defeat of these privatizationists, and you come here and say: Continue privatizing! All right, let's go. [[Call the ÖVP:BAWAG!]] You say the economy breaks down, and you say no, continue until 2010. They have flexibility, which is inconceivable. I can only tell you: So you can't make politics for the Austrians. Take note at last: Their basic understanding of the weakening of the first pillar and the state pensions has failed, strengthening the third pillar of private pensions. We don't want the pensions to be the subject of speculation on the stock exchanges. We do not want the fate of the elderly to be speculated on the exchanges. You have to explain this to the public now that you stick to this sentence of the Wolfgang Schüssel, which is the guiding principle of his reign and still applies to this day. Because he's still ruling, because on 28 November, he's still ruling. In fact, September will be voted on: Do you want Wolfgang Schüssel to continue ruling or not? That's the truth. They are the performer of this ideology and of these thoughts, for which Wolfgang Schüssel is sitting here in the house and where he is the guardian of the fact that nothing should be changed, which has been decided in this government since 2000. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This also means that you stick to the tuition fees. That is a fundamental question for you. In fact, they don't want equal opportunities to exist. They don't want any barriers to the universities. You don't want to do that. You want the elite company, say: The elites who are always up here should always stay on top, and the rest should always stay down. And you don't want equal opportunities. This is the true ideology you have. We have real contrasts here, and these contrasts are going to be political. [[Abg. Oils: When?]] In fact, these contrasts are also for the vote on 28 March. September. I can prophesy this to you. I say to you that the Austrians will no longer take this course, which is being carried out at their expense with intrigue in Brussels against consumers who are being carried out at their expense here with a negative redistribution. – No, thank you!, I can only say.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8624	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. 15 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8645	Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that, of course, the effects of the American financial crisis can also be expected from us in Europe and also in Austria is out of question, but it is already funny and interesting – funnyly less for citizens, but interesting above all – as you have sold companies in Austria on the red and black side in recent years to American banks – the canal industry has been developed, for example, for the cross-board leasing models, the TIWAG in Tyrol or other areas – where the damage will naturally be done on us. It is also heard that the EVN will plan a 20 percent price increase after the election. You hide this from the Austrians. They are also not ready to take countermeasures in good time. The economy is weakening, we know, we have the highest tax burden on the Second Republic, we have a worse purchasing power than 15 years ago, but you are not willing to counter it. We have a trend in inflation, a trend in inflation, and it has been indifferent to you over the past two years, and according to experts, 50 percent of the inflation trends in Austria were partly domesticated. It was indifferent to you. For two years you both, red and black, have blocked all discharge steps. If I look at this theatre today, if I remember the last weeks and also yesterday's TV confrontation between Mr Faymann and Mr Molterer, please also with your posters of loud printing errors for the best. “Enlightenment!” – It was the culmination yesterday that you have not disputed enough, and you prove every day that you have led the country into an inability to rule. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You prove every day that in reality you do not bear any responsibility at all. There is a dispute on devils coming out, as power-political interests are put in the foreground, so Mr Faymann comes shortly before the election and presents himself as the “new election”. I wonder, Where's the new choice? It's an old torment! He was like a soletti, please, throughout the last two years everywhere, in all non-social measures. Yeah, do you really want to sell people for stupid? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a government coordinator, he was everywhere with his personal bus friend Josef Pröll, where everything was extracted, where everything was negotiated. As a result, the oil tax has been increased at the highest level in this area and funnyly, but then, Mr Faymann and Mr Molterer, you have been able to relieve the super-richs of the half-life of the foundation tax. For this there was money, there were suddenly €400 million per year of discharge potential for the super-rich. This shows that: You have not lived up to social responsibility and justice, and this also demonstrates your unbelief today in the population. People know that this is what people see that you have lived chaos, fruitification, but also inability. Mr Faymann, you have had no force of enforcement over the last eight months that you have had a lack of leadership, you cannot always blame the ÖVP! This has to be clearly said here, too, that you have not been able to enforce yourself as a government coordinator. This is a simple game you're playing here. Just before the election You give the impression: Now we want to do everything different. I already have the fear, Mr Faymann, that, after the election, you are likely to receive the nickname "Gusi 2", because it is to be feared that you will be just as upset and that you will be running the campaign. You have already proved this in the last 18 months, and after the election you can expect the same thing. You, Mr Faymann, also said that you want to live and ensure your exclusion fetishism. Yeah, what does that mean? Just as ÖVP has said: with the Freedom Party not a day of coalition cooperation! There you want to build a “firewall. ” – You need to explain to your voters what you are planning. This means that you have provoked new elections to the tune of Zigmillions of euros to continue suffocating after the election as before. That is, these permanent disputes, the permanent chaos, the lasting burdens we have had to experience for two years now, which you want to continue after the election. That's the truth! Only then may the coalition partner have made a renewal at the head, and Mr Molterer will perhaps be in history at the ÖVP and a Josef Pröll will be used there. Then both government coordinators are in office and dignity again and continue the red-black sausagery. That's obvious. Your plan, and that is why a strong Freedom Party in Austria needs it, so that we can finally ensure a third way in this country next to this red-black, which has basically failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In recent decades, they have tried to mean that: Without SPÖ and ÖVP, nothing will work in this country. But you have proved the opposite in recent years. There's nothing left in the country with you. And if you, Mr. Finanzminister Molterer, have made yourself here today and have spoken of you wanting to relieve the middle class and the families, you have done exactly the opposite. With your policy, you have caused the middle class to break down today that more and more families are burdened. They have rejected from the coalition all the requests of the Freedom Party for a necessary and important wage tax reduction. Last but not least a week ago here in this House, when we have said that it takes a reduction in the rate of entry tax to relieve the smaller earnings, to make more purchasing power possible, a reduction of 38 percent in the rate of entry tax to 25 percent, it needs an increase in the base of taxation for the medium-sized person, so that finally purchasing power can be made possible there again. Everything you have rejected from the red and black sides. Mr Faymann made himself today and claimed that the ÖVP had rejected this. You, too, Mr Faymann, your party, over a week ago, also rejected the wage reduction measures we have proposed. This shows that you have no credibility here. With your stress policy, you have caused the middle class to start breaking today. With your non-social policy and social-political ice-colds, you have led to more than a million Austrians living today at the poverty line. And then you're making fun of these groups. If we say today, please help in this area, we are opposed to it, then you are making fun of watchmen's discussions, Mr Bartenstein is bringing Viagra into the discussion and outright insanity, instead of taking seriously that people from lower levels of income have particular concern and, above all, special problems when it comes to shopping, that they have to figure out what they can afford at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is also said by the CDU economic expert Professor Kirchhof, that, of course, a reduction in VAT in basic food is a reasonable thing, and it is the CDU economic expert of the Federal Chancellor Merkel in Germany, who said that this is a crucial aid to people with smaller earnings, because they do not pay taxes today, because they do not deserve so much, and because, in particular, a discharge is expected to occur there beyond the year, so that we can also afford more food. Here, the Secretary-General Mitterlehner said something extraordinary, saying that trade will of course be returned, but there he was called to order by his own party. There are still enough people, especially members of the EIA, who consider this to be a reasonable step. You should have voted in your own party. But if you confirm that trade will, of course, give this to customers, and we ensure it at the same time as official price control, then there is certainly a lot achieved for those people who need help. That's exactly what matters, and that's what we want. We said the care money must finally be valorized. Since the introduction of the care allowance, there has been a 20 percent loss of value, but all applications for a valorization of the liberals have been rejected by SPÖ and ÖVP. To date, you are not ready to finally compensate for this 20 percent loss of value, but want to give these weakest of the weak, namely the needy and disabled people only 5 percent. It's not socially fair. It is also not socially fair if you still refuse that there is a valorization in the case of family allowance and child benefit. If no valorization has been carried out since 2003, this is not socially just and not socially responsible. That is precisely why people will not follow their unbelievable policy shortly before the election. That's clear. That is why we are glad to see you get a bit more reasonable once before the election, at least in some areas, and perhaps just before the election, but only once in the right direction, in the direction of the Freedom Party, because in recent years we have the theme leadership in these areas, for example, when it came to ensuring that pensioners finally have a pension price index adjustment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is where we say that this has to be a legal legal claim. Year after year, please, our pensioners must have a legal right to obtain an inflation tax within the meaning of a pensioner price index. In addition, the pensioners of smaller pensions should receive one-time payments so that they can ensure a price compensation. That would be important. This could also be used to compensate for the loss of the last years in which the pensioners have been robbed under red and black aid. I would like to remind you of the special free movement meeting in November 2006. At that time we have also raised these demands, but all the other parties in this House have not agreed to our request, all of them from SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and BZÖ have prevented this from happening at the time and do so to this day. This shows where credibility and thematic leadership are at home. It's nice if perhaps in this area one movement happens, because we liberals from the opposition apparently have been able to share so much responsibility and strength in the last years of this government that at least one starts to get a little bit wrong. Something has already been achieved, you can see. Perhaps today, through the Freedom Party, there is some possibility of remission. This would also have proved that with us is more feasible than this government has succeeded in the last two years, where nothing has succeeded except burden and strife and chaos. And that's exactly what it's all about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since today the search was also briefly a topic: So please, Mr Klubobmann Cap, the SPÖ should be very quiet when it comes to the European Union. You are both experts, SPÖ and ÖVP, when it comes to following Austria towards the European Union, as we remember from the year 2000, where we have champagneized and launched sanctions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is also significant today if the ÖVP – with the BZÖ – – – is sitting at Wolfgang Schüssel’s lap today – is presented together in the European Union: as an EU connoisseur so that, hopefully, in the opinion of the ÖVP and the BZÖ, one can prevent a proper social policy discharge measure. That's embarrassing! It is embarrassing when a party like the BZÖ collects signatures in Carinthia for a popular desire and then here in this House a week ago tried to prevent the halving of VAT on basic foods. This shows the Frotzelei and the plantation that political parties are living here towards the citizens. Then one also understands the Grant of men. And then there needs to be a reliable political force in this country, a third force that finally shows a reliable way to go that we put social responsibility and justice in the foreground for our people, for our citizens and put it at the centre of our political interest. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then it needs a political force such as the Austrian Freedom Party, which finally focuses on Austrian interests, so that Austrian interests are not sold out and sacrificed daily to the European Union, as you have done from the red and black side in recent years. That's where you have to hold the following. You, Minister of Finance Molterer, have spoken on a permanent basis of Europe today: “Europe, Europe, Europe!” – Yes, we are part of Europe, but at last talk about us Austrians! You are a member of the government and vice chancellor, you should finally take the political concerns and needs of people seriously and not just prevent and block everything. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To be politically dead and to say permanently: “There’s nothing going on,” that’s no alternative! That means you don't want to, and you're trying to move everything on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, although these steps are now necessary to perhaps start the economy again, to throw the economic engine back. Now the steps are necessary and sought! Here too, Mr Faymann has already fallen down; he has said: Wage tax reduction? No, that's what we're gonna do again. We're not gonna do that until 2010! - He already said that. Even in the question of referendum, he actually fell down when he said in interviews: We do not take the letter to the “Kronen Zeitung” so seriously ourselves, because we only vote for a referendum if the ÖVP is right with us. – This will never happen, Mr Faymann! They show that you prove yourself with your statements and prove that there is no credibility behind your statements. Mr. Van der Bellen, take a short look at you, although you're not here. Your heimat-respective activities are well known throughout Austria: “Take your” red-and-white-red “Flaggerl for your Gaggerl”, as that was done by the Greens, with a dung dowel on it, while giving away Austria in the geographical boundaries in the dung dome. Then there are sayings on green posters for the best – I quote green posters –: “Home in the heart, shit in the brain”, quote. You say, at least with poster actions and transparent actions – a transparent one – that Austria is to receive a new occupation power, as part of the National Day, for which there was a poster. [[Call the Greens:Falsh!]] On your homepage there are songs that you could download, as you have played such songs – I quote –: “Once a day I want to brown on our flag”. - Quote. I say: Such a thing is bleak, such a thing is tedious! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what the Austrians will do on 28 October. Don't judge on September. The Austrians see that you are not an environmental and nature conservation party. Homeland, environment and nature belong inseparably to each other, and if you act in such a way that you do not know where to go, I'll tell you: Every Austrian knows a voice for the FPÖ on 28 October. September can lead – and only one vote for the FPÖ – to you being referred to fourth from third place and not to a government that we do not have to experience an interior minister Peter Pilz or perhaps a immigration minister Stoisits. ==References====External links== It is also possible to guarantee social responsibility and justice in September. Only with one voice for the FPÖ can you vote against the prepotence of SPÖ and ÖVP and finally take these two parties down from the high Ross. That's necessary! It is necessary to select this prepotence once and to punish this behaviour. This can be done with the Freedom Party, the Austrians know today, because every voice for a Small or Splitter Party will be a cast or lost voice. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Stop with...!]] Whoever chooses Mr. Haider knows that Haider is gone again, remains in Carinthia and then comes Petzner, Westenthaler and Stadler – and that is really not an alternative! That is exactly why we know and also the Austrians know that there is a third force in this country that can be relied upon to ensure social responsibility for citizens, as in the reduction of tuition fees, that Austrians are no longer at all worse placed than asylum seekers and that in the future EU foreigners, say non-EU citizens, must finally pay. This proves that a differentiated model is possible, which we also want to ensure in the case of family allowance, child benefit and the award of social housing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This proves that a differentiated model is possible, a difference between citizens and non-EU citizens becomes possible, and finally every Austrian citizen who has a matura is guaranteed free access to university. With this, we can finally make sure that beyond that, performance is worth it. If one studies as an Austrian citizen at the minimum time – with two semesters of tolerance – he pays nothing; if he studies for a longer period, he is considered a bully and has to pay – principle of performance! In addition, the 35 000 university staff finally have a collective contract for the first time through our freedom of use. Something's gone on! If you, Mr Faymann, sit down and say, well, there we are ready to remove barriers!, then I wonder why in the red Vienna can be found the highest fees all over Austria, why barriers to children and families are built in the Red Vienna, so that they have to pay 200 to 300 € per month on kindergartens. [[Abg. May. Lap: It's not true!]] [[Abg. May. Lapp: That's not true!]] These are the barriers you're building! The highest tax burden in all Austria is in the absolutely ruled Red Vienna with canal fees, with garbage charges, with public transport, with Parkpickerl, with all these areas. [[Abg. May. Lapp: That's not true!]] Here you show that where red reigns, benhart is disassembled! You have to say that, and the Austrians know that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intercom calls at the SPÖ and calls to the FPÖ.]] That's exactly what BAWAG II also proves: Where you worked, everything was broken! BAWAG II: 3.5 billion in sand, ÖGB-pensionists have lost their pension rights. Where are there, please, the pleite of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse or the failure of the Hanusch-Krankenhaus? – One SPÖ plea after another, where you had your fingers in the game! That's what you're telling people. You have no economic competence on these questions! BAWAG II also deals with the current process, and it also confirms what Gusenbauer has discussed with Robert von Cerberus’s “Hussian” capitalist, Robert von Cerberus, in the “standard”. He has admitted that a party is not able to run a bank or a company. This has been confirmed at the “consumer”, at BAWAG and in many other areas. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But if it was about being able to serve, then you've been using yourself: with 1.3 billion schilling towards SPÖ, ÖGB and SPÖ-near clubs! This will, of course, be to be checked for its criminal relevance. This also shows how you dealt with people you were responsible for. The ÖGB has completely lost its moral responsibility, since there is no employee representation anymore. You have set the ÖGB in the sand, you have abandoned the workers in this country in all areas. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I'll finish. – That's exactly what it's all about: It needs a reliable employee representation! We will ensure that.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8854	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel. 15 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8875	Mr President. High house! Is there any means, Mr President, to ensure that such faeces of speakers are not used here in the House? . I would really ask that a certain minimum level, Mr Strache, should not be undermined. [[Abg. Tight: These were quotations!]] That's true for you, too! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: These were quotations from the Greens!]] That's what we've heard five times, and it's really enough – thanks a lot! Second point – if you are already talking about what could endanger cigarette packerl –: After all we hear, a voice for red or blue will endanger the economic health of this country. That's what everyone should know on that day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are indeed in one of the most serious crises in the global financial economy for decades. The Big Five, the big five investment banks, no longer exist. They have either been bought up, they have collapsed, they have been taken up by Japanese funds or have fled in recent hours under the protection of the Federal Bank of the USA. [[Abg. Broukal: More private, less state, exactly!]] They have almost converted into normal banks, thus also getting access to the money, to the reserves of the FED, but they are therefore also subject to the tighter rules of the banks. [[Abg. Broukal: More private, less state!]] I like that. The largest insurance company, the AIG, has been saved with a loan of 85 billion dollars; at least it seems so. The US government is now planning a billion-dollar package, a rescue package of 700 billion dollars. “Freddie” and “Fannie” have been nationalized, Bear Stearns sold before and then. In the UK, the Northern Rock has been nationalized, the Hypo-Bank Bradford & Bingley is waving, and for HBOS buyers have been sought. [[Abg. May. Worm:... nationally!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] By the way, this is exactly the same thing the Austrian government had to do with the BAWAG you were responsible for two years ago! [[towards SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There has been the same speculation – and the Austrian taxpayer has saved this bank with a guarantee. Therefore, be careful with these calls! Not we have this debacle to answer. [[Abg. May. Worm:... no grunts!]] That's quite different, there's the blame in your ranks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The first question is therefore: What are the causes of this international financial crisis, especially triggered by the United States? – If you want to solve something, you have to ask who's to blame for it. There are already some culprits who have speculated; but it is also the debt of the American central bank that has simply made the money cheaper and cheaper! Alan Greenspan, who has been celebrated for some time as “the Miracle Rabbi” and who has determined monetary policy and financial policy there for 20 years, has ultimately provided the prerequisites for America to live for decades far beyond its conditions. It has not been saved; we in Austria save 11 percent, in America it was zero or even a “disposal”. There the impression has been raised: Everything's going! There were loans for property or houses of 200 percent of the price. This is true of us in Austria or in Europe. And always, when it's gotten brittle, Greenspan has flooded the economy with money: Then the interest rates have been reduced, then additional amounts of money have been created in the system – and this has given the impression that there is something like a perpetuum mobile. Investors have become more careless, collateral has ceased to be respected and loans have been granted against ever smaller risk premiums. The risks have not been made transparent at all. The same is also noticeable in the political field. I say openly here that individuals too have become accustomed to living in red. It is also a question of the whole culture, which stands out here, from the banknote to the credit cards, that this, of course, causes mentality, does not bring all things to the point of being transparent. The same applies also to public debt: Either later generations pay for their consumption and investment, or you get the debt to disappear through inflation, especially at the expense of the many small people who do not have any real value. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the same mentality! Especially in a day like today when some MEPs are sending to decide on a billion-dollar package – with very little confidence – this warning should be heeded very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second question: Do we meet these consequences of the global financial crisis in Europe or also in Austria in particular? – So far, some €300 billion has been written down, interestingly almost half of which have been paid to European banks. So we're already affected by it. Growth is going down, stock exchanges are clearing up, the dollar is going down again, the oil price is going up, the loans are getting scarceer. In particular, the risk surcharges for the money market are much greater. We must insist that among the five major European Member States, Spain, Great Britain and Italy, are already in recession or close to it. Germany has had two quarters with zero growth, France publishing for this year only 1 percent. The Guardian recently published the following about these last days: “Ten days that shake the world” – ten days that have shaken the world. Now for us the question is: What does the Austrian answer look like? – While the Minister of Finance has been working with the Austrian central bank in telephone contact with its colleagues, with the European Central Bank – there has been a crisis summit – the SPÖ has always been the same answer for weeks, always the same points, this “famous” five-point programme. Ladies and gentlemen, this has brought Austrian essayist Michael Amon to the fore today by literally saying the following about the SPÖ. – You certainly know “Asterix”, there is always a delicious scene at the beginning: There a pirate ship rides with a skull flag, and whenever it becomes critical when “Asterix” appears, they sink their own ship and swim helplessly in the sea. What does Michael Amon say? – I quote –: “The SPÖ will first destroy its own boat and chancellor like the pirates in the “Asterix” and then present a 5-point program to increase the profit of the “German trade chains”. That’s it. That's the way it is, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is no more to this than these legendary five points from the “great chairman” who are kept in answer to each problem. We do not need to be afraid – I say so – because the basis of the Austrian economy is healthy. For five years we have gained a real advantage, the former and the current government. These include the last tax reform, particularly in the business sector, pension insurance, the enlargement of the Union to include the Central and Eastern European countries, the doubling of research funds, the flexible labour market. It's gone down: Now, in these days, we have full employment again for the first time, 3.4 percent unemployment! [[Abg. Street: McJobs!]] Thank you, Minister of Labour and Economy Martin Bartenstein, and Wilhelm Molterer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have full employment, so we are in a good situation. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is really a strong piece!]] But now we have to focus on making it more difficult, and we need the necessary measures. What are the consequences of this crisis? – First, at European level, it is the first thing to strengthen the European Central Bank – I am really convinced of that – precisely because it represents a policy other than the Fed. It is precisely because Jean-Claude Trichet and the entire consortium are careful to ensure that stability is at the centre, that the ECB is strengthened and not daily – as some people do – they need to be criticized or questioned. You should know that exactly in this situation. We therefore need more Europe here and not, as is said in the FPÖ's applications, supported by SPÖ, less Europe, or in any change of primary law in the future a referendum. We should keep the concept of the social market economy as the only really suitable one, not questioning it, but not replacing it. It's not in danger. There's a lot of control today. Take only the competitive guardians in the European Commission, who even force large companies like Microsoft into their knees. But also the American stock exchange supervision SEC is not sloppy; just think about Siemens. In a single area it does not work perfectly, that is the financial economy. That is why I really believe that worldwide transparency rules are needed, that we need a European credit rating agency and that we need European credit protection institutions that are not fully dependent on the USA. That would be one of the lessons learned from this crisis at European level, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next point: What are we doing about it in Austria? – I would strongly recommend that we protect our jobs and our real estates, our homes and properties in the current situation. As far as the question of jobs is concerned, I believe that we should, in particular, proceed with a medium-sized funds, which already exists in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The AWS has set up four framework credit lines; this should be significantly increased. I would recommend that for the future, for the next year, one should consider increasing the framework by €3 billion, giving the AWS also the opportunity to refinance itself, equipped with triple A rating of the Republic, on the capital market and to pass it on to the banks to the Austrian banks. Second point: We need to protect our homes, our properties as much as possible. I therefore believe that the proposal by Minister of Finance Molterer is highly interesting in improving and significantly increasing the basis for design savings. This is a very important point in today's situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is security, there is a close proximity to millions of building owners, and that is at least one thing that is absolutely secured. The next point is tax relief, today rightly proposed by Wilhelm Molterer. We need to focus on the middle class and should therefore also consider some of the issues in the next discussion. There will certainly be a need for serious discussions, you can't do that in a quick shot, and it must be with a 1. They're coming into force. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the families, it is necessary to pay particular attention to the relief of tariffs. With us we actually have a flat tax: From € 10 000 in annual income, you already pay almost 40 percent limit rate, and from € 50 000 you already have 50 percent limit tax burden. [[Abg. Oillingers: But that's what you've introduced! Your grass!]] That means that we actually have almost a flat tax, so that must be disrupted and the tariff adjusted accordingly. [[Abg. Oillinger: But that's what your grass has introduced!]] What is certainly not going on in such a situation as in Austria is retro-political purest water, embodied by Werner Faymann today here and yesterday in the television discussion again. Not a word about the future, everything here and now – but that is not enough for a good policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have assembled from the SPÖ: Where does the slogan “More Private, Less State” remain? – Here he is, here he stands, and I believe that this is really a true slogan, a good concept, because if you want a strong state, you have to free him from things that a private person can do better. [[Abg. Street: And then trust the security of private security services?- Oh, my God!]] A totally unwarranted witness, the Director-General of voestalpine, who was born on 17 May 1885. September of this year, a week ago, the “Wiener Zeitung” gave a highly interesting interview. Director-General Eder says he has – I quote – “the highest fond memories of privatisation. ==References====External links== August 2005, when ÖIAG sold the last share. I have spent the greater part of my professional life in a national voestalpine, and I have had the pleasure of experiencing a fully privatized voestalpine in recent years. The freedom of the company (...) the ability of the employees to really use without any political consideration, that is another league. I have to say: Both tried, no comparison’. - Quote. Letter You're in your main book, Mr. Werner Faymann! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And you're not so innocent, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: The municipality of Vienna has operated Cross Border Leasing, including billions with canal buildings in “Transdanubia”. Sale & Lease back has been made by metro-Garnitures, tram-trailers, by several billion euros. [[Abg. Street: And the Viennas pay!]] It is still a volume of € 120 million at least in question today. All guaranteed by AIG and “Freddie” and “Fannie”, we have all experienced these things. [[Abg. Oillinger: And what about Upper Austria and Tyrol?]] [[Abg. Street: And what about the TIWAG, with the black federal states?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, therefore, be careful! You should also watch out for the ÖGB! If you are already talking about pensions – and I am very much of the opinion that the state pension is of course absolutely fine, but this also includes an additional second and third pillar, which you should not pursue, dear friends, that would be quite, quite wrong – but also remember: The ÖGB is responsible for the fact that 1 200 ÖGB-pensionists have been removed 80 percent of their additional pension! Where are your "social veins", ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Or to the “economic house mind”: The municipality of Vienna once owned €1.7 billion of the AVZ, the former central savings bank foundation. Then there was the conversion into HVB shares in 2001. If you had really been ‘more private, less state’, then you would have sold it to the full – today you still have 1 percent share in an Italian large bank, which is uninteresting for the design – then today you would still have paid €1.7 billion on a savings book, to 4 percent. This brings 50 million euros each year. What is reality today? – At that time, €1.7 billion in property. Today the entire property is worth € 450 million! They started like "Hans im Glück" with a gold bar – and today they have a pebble in the bag! – Congratulations on this economic reason! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the same mentality that characterizes the Wall Street-Zocker, namely speculating with guaranteed money on the future, have exactly the same mentality you have of red and blue, with sponsored money of our children in their future. The course goes to the left, the goal is the past, sitting at the wheel Stache and Faymann! Shame d’rum! I think we should have Christmas on 24 May. ==References====External links== Celebrate September! That's better!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e9241	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e9263	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Riepl: Are you a top candidate now?]] I would have liked to have discussed something with Mr Faymann, but it is already the second time – the second time! – that he shows us his disdain for Parliament. The last time we had to bring him here with a majority decision, and now he's coming, holding some – well, let's say it galantly – mediocrely, and disappearing out of the House. He doesn't even care what we're discussing here! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's how you make a request!]] Mr. Klubobmann Cap, this is the real scandal: This increase of the elected representatives by your party president and Minister Faymann! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] After all, Faymann is completely wretched! I'll go even further. You know what? The vote will be taken at the next voting time. He doesn't care! He's not thinking about how we might develop visions for the next few years, but the only thing that's important to him is to divide ministerial offices now! Minister offices are already being divided! Mrs Schmied, who is behind me, is already being put into play as Minister for Finance. The voter has not even given his vote, Mr Faymann has already issued ministerial posts. This too is a respectability to the voters on the next Sunday, and the voters should also consider exactly what is happening. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. May. Aubauer.]] And even, Faymann's position. You've never experienced what's happened here today. I have never experienced in this House how there has been a dispute on the Government Bank. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Political masochism in the ORF's children's and youth programme at morning time. That's what happened here today! And then you think that can't work anymore. There is disputed, back and forth, as was the case for two years now, without anything coming out, and then Mr. Faymann turns himself up and says: I want to keep it that way. I want to make a big coalition again, again with the same protagonists – see forge, which will then be equal to the Minister of Finance. I want to keep it that way! But slowly, Mr Faymann, I ask myself the following question, a purely mathematical: If you're in the room with five possible parties, and you're out of the FPÖ, you're out of the BZÖ and now you're also evicting Molterer, Shell and a little bit of Mr. Bartenstein, then at the end of the day you can happen, namely that all you send out of the room are gone, you're left alone, and nobody wants to talk to you anymore. It could be, too, Mr Faymann, if you calculate it precisely. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This prepotence, before a election, to ban parties, to let Parliament be Parliament before an election and to distribute ministerial posts before a election, this prepotency is really heaven-screaming and a commonplace with the voters, ladies and gentlemen. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] I would have liked to discuss two things with Mr Faymann. When he comes here and says: Pensions from the state and only from the state!, then that's all right, the problem is only: If social democracy governs this state, it has become worse and worse for pensioners: whether it was in the 1990s with the Vrannitzky pensionist letter, which was an untruth, or whether it was in the last two years, where you have now granted pensioners an increase of 1.8 percent for this year, with an inflation of 3.8 percent. That's for the benefit of the man! As long as social democracy governs this state, it will be worse for Austrian pensioners, ladies and gentlemen! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] And now again: Today you are bringing in a pension scheme again. Wonderful! 3.2 to 3.4 percent, a bit of a discount, but the increase will again be below the inflation rate. Again, pensioners will lose money every day, as was the case now in the two years of your government participation. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The ÖVP wasn't there at all!]] Or, Mr. Faymann says: Act now! – Now, four days before the election, Mr Faymann points out that it is now necessary to act. And something else: He wants to “start ” too! Do you know what Mr Faymann and you have done about social democracy over the last two years? – Nothing but a burden on the other! Oil tax increase, health insurance contributions, prescription fees, health insurance contributions. You've lost everything, you've increased taxes – and now, four days before the election, you want to make people know all of a sudden, pick up and relieve. That is ridiculous what you offer here from the Social Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Klubobmanns Cap, you say everything here: It's one – how did you say? – hardness occurred. Now I'm asking But she's: What was hearty? Is it not harsh that in the last two years and even today you will be refusing a heating allowance which we will again request today, for 500 000 people sitting in their cold apartment, with coats, hoods and gloves? And you reject that? – This is harsh, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! That's the No. Sager Faymann! Mr Faymann said on all social measures with you, with the Socialist Group, No: He says no to the heating allowance, he says No to an immediate tax bonus that we would like to pay, which now works immediately – 200 € per family plus 50 € per child now paid out via a tax bonus at the wage tax. I think that would help people because they could decide for themselves what they want to do with the money and where they really need it. That's our idea: Tax reduction now through a wage tax and income tax reform. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Tell you about the SPÖ No to overtime control, which we will again request today. Workers, 800 000 people who work hard in this country, 800 000 people who regularly overtime, we want to give them the opportunity to get ten overtime tax-free, because we represent not only social thoughts but also that people who do more should also earn more. More net of gross is announced, ladies and gentlemen, for the service providers also in our country! You say No to mineral oil tax reduction, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, you say no to a pension increase of 4 percent and thus to a real pension increase. You're saying no to stop the charges. They say to everything we have requested here, No. You know what? – This is unfeeling, heartless, unsocial and unfair, what you are doing here with your Don't tell me! You want to continue to rule the SPÖ, which is a dangerous threat to Austria, Mr Faymann! I'm glad you came back now. I will then send you the Minutes so that you can at least read the speech if you do not pay attention to Parliament. [[Abg. Crist: Shame around time!]] [[Abg. The farewell speech?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Was that the farewell speech?]] Mr Faymann, continue to divide the ministries!, but: They're abandoning the people! Now on the subject of VAT reduction, because you said: This is a unique scandal. Mr Klubobmann Cap, yes, we are also in favour of a VAT reduction, yes, we are in favour of it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] But I also say to you: We are not in favour of continuing the path that you and your group have taken as early as 2006 in order to ensure that people are promised something that they will not be able to comply with after the election. And it is now a fact, and especially when you quote Commissioner Kovács – by the way, this is a Social Democratic, so from among your ranks, a Social Democratic Commissioner – this has clearly stated that a future five percent tax rate is excluded unless one of the existing ones is abolished. That's what your Social Democratic Commissioner says! That means: We take this seriously and say: This is an opinion, just as there are other opinions, but we do not have legal certainty. [[Abg. Strache: The motto of the BZÖ: EU, order, we follow you!]] So there is no legal certainty and you cannot guarantee that not a few weeks after choosing this VAT reduction will be lifted immediately. That's what we need to consider. And in this respect, you have not yet been able to convince us. Second point: They couldn't convince us that this whole action – and I think it's extremely worrying – is nothing but a social-democratic support action with blue aid to the German large companies, from REWE to the point of view that the whole money will be broken down and will not actually pass on. There is no guarantee of the transfer! This guarantee is not available! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Sound said they're giving it up!]] And thirdly, you are not prepared to embed this VAT reduction, as we demand, into immediate relief measures which people receive directly. I've listed these earlier: Heating costs, overtime and also a tax bonus. You're not ready for that either! I have the impression, therefore, that this whole story is nothing but "Gysenbauer 2": Gusenbauer also promised everything he could not keep after the election. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Now comes Mr Faymann – and we have no legal certainty, we do not have a transfer guarantee on VAT and we do not have any further measures that will really relieve people. We are not in favour of promising people before the election something that does not last after the election. We keep our promises, ladies and gentlemen. Let's make that clear. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A few sentences to the other points. I also find this touching: Mr. Klubobmann Strache comes here, first criticizes red and black and says that they should no longer rule – and then he is actually sitting on the lap of Mr. Klubobmann Cap. [[Abg. Strache: The “pocket ” of Cuisine speaks!]] I also find this interesting: From the blue polishing bells to the red Monchichi is obviously no further way in this High House either. I find this really interesting: You tell voters in all places in this country that you want to have a strict immigration policy – “Austria first!” – and now you decide to grant a tuition fee for convention refugees and for EU foreigners. [[Abg. Sorry! We have ensured that Austrians are equal!]] I congratulate you, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. Strache: You have freed asylum seekers from the tuition fees!]] I hope that the voters will also know that you will abolish the tuition fees for foreigners, so that we will have an immigration flood on the universities. [[Abg. Street: You have freed foreigners from the tuition fees!]] Mr. Klubobmann, do you know how funny it looks when you sit in front of me with such a big mouth? [[the speaker makes the corresponding movement of the hand]] [[The speaker points to the microphone.]] The microphone's louder! Your mouth is bigger than the whole face! Second point, Mr Klubobmann: They are day by day, and this is the basic programme of the FPÖ – and we are still side by side, and we are staying on it – for us to reduce the pay and contributions to the Chamber of Workers, which are too high for the workers. We're on it! We have tabled a request to this effect, which you decided last week that a majority would have received. [[Abg. Street: And how does it look with the Chamber of Commerce? Why not also at the Chamber of Commerce?]] And suddenly, something happened quickly – was Stache back at Cap on an iron action? – he's against it. [[Cheerfulness at BZÖ and ÖVP]] He is once again flattered, and at once Mr. Strache is the defender of the Chamber of Workers. [[Abg. Strache: No, but against one-sidedness!]] Do you know why this is particularly shameful? - I got a letter. Because you were just a week ago, namely, on 15. September 2008, a voters who has asked about the Chamber of Workers and about your position on this matter: [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] The Freedom Party is for free membership instead of chamber-compulsory; we are in favour of the abolition of compulsory membership and the abolition of the chamber-to-championment! [[Call BZÖ and ÖVP:Oho!]] It was a week ago! [[Abg. Street: Why only at the Chamber of Workers? We are against forced membership, but everywhere! Not one-sided! This is pure neoliberalism!]] Today, however, it is not possible to do so. That's what you're The workers will “thank you”! – Already such a mouth and such a small head, it is incredible! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] Mr. Klubobmann Strache, you're a parade trap! They are very different here in the high house than in the squares and with the people outside. Good thing that many today are watching and also knowing what you are doing here, that you are actually making the leaders of social-democratic stress policy, the anti-democratic anti-future policy. This is your role in the House, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You don't even believe that!]] That's why you can say so often: “A voice for the FPÖ...”, and so on. Everyone's just gonna get on the thighs. Do you know what a voice for the FPÖ means? – A strengthening of social democracy! A voice for strache is a voice for Faymann! Your voters should know this, too, Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Strache: The BZÖ is an ÖVP branch!]] The votes today will show that you have been sitting on the lap of social democracy for a long time – and are moving there in conformity. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there is a financial crisis, indeed. That has often been said today. Only: The real financial crisis, which takes place in the money exchanges of people because they have too little money, is too little purchasing power. We should therefore also devote some measures to this today. Today, we will make an amendment which will exempt us from tax for ten overtime hours. I hope he finds a majority. That would be an important point. We will also make a request today – as I am very excited about the attitude of social democracy – a modified request for heating aid. We make it easy for you: We do not apply for a heating grant for all, okay, but in a first step a heating grant at least for pensioners under the compensation limit. 250 000 are those who receive below € 747 pension. Soften yourself! Finally, as Mr Cap wants, you will also be warm and agree that we are granting at least this heating aid to the minimum pensioners who do not have it anyway. I am delighted how you will vote on this amendment, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Coming to the end: By creating artificial liquidity in the US banks, by pumping hundreds of billions of dollars, by this artificially created liquidity, one thing is going to happen: We will see how in the next few months the prices will be even more attractive. From the USA to Europe, Japan and China, prices are going to decline worldwide as a result of this action dedicated to American banks. The profiters are the banks again, the risk carries as always the taxpayer. That is, we must be prepared for this development. That is why we are also in favour of a medium-sized fund: Yes, a medium-sized fund is the right answer to give a detour, above all, to this unjust Basel II rule. One thing is very important to us, namely the creation of new jobs. I think we have the right idea at the right time. Let us make it possible for us to promote the 110 000 individual companies in this country, which are run by a man, one-man companies, if they employ other employees. There is a potential for up to 70 000 new jobs that we want to create. That would be the right answer, along with further accompanying measures, because we will need jobs in the future, because international development on the horizon already shows that unemployment will also rise again. At least with us, ladies and gentlemen, this is possible. We are for discharge instead of for disappointment of voters. We are for less taxes, and they are only possible at less SPÖ. Less debt in the case of less SPÖ and less burden on less SPÖ. [[Abg. Strache: That's why no VAT reduction!]] We are for proper work, for proper decisions, which also take place after the election, and not for disorderly promises, which – see Gusenbauer – then dissolve into air. That's not what we're supposed to have for!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e9698	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e9720	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think it is a little sad that the last three contributions to this debate have been presented here, namely that with male balms, Mr. Dr. Schüssel, Mr. Westenthaler and Mr. Strache used all their energy here only to get rid of aggression and put threats into space instead of developing positive energy for the future of our country. I'm sorry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prince: Look in the mirror!]] I am sorry that the energy that is wasted in Schmpftiraden is not being implemented for positive things! We could move mountains together! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Then: There's a lot to do. Let's look at the security of the health system. We want a health system that everyone can afford. We do not want those who have more money to have better health care than those who have a small income. We want a state health system in which all people are treated the same way, and not, like you, more private and less state! [[Abg. Donabauer: That's what we've got.]] We want a health system for everyone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want a pension system that is safe! We do not want a system like in the United States, where the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers has now killed people! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] What you have forgotten today, Mr Schüssel, is that you know the banking house Lehman Brothers very well. You have pumped €10 million of tax money in Lehman Brothers when it came to selling out social housing in Austria. When you sold the federal apartments, you did this to these American speculators, Mr. Schüssel! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have presented a five-point programme, and I would like to discuss these five points with you against the price. [[Call the ÖVP: Tell us!]] I would like to know what is against the fact that we are taking these five necessary measures to relieve men and women in this country a little of the cost of which they are heavily affected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] It makes a difference whether you are going shopping, Mr Deputies, or whether a single mother is going shopping! The latter cannot ask the question on Sunday: What do we want to eat?, but she needs to see that she buys so much that in her shopping cart she can really find it. That's the problem! That is why we are in favour of relief from those affected by the inflation, especially the young families and pensioners. That is why we want to halve VAT so that there is more in the shopping cart than people can afford today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Second claim: We want – and what does it mean? – increase family support. We want to increase family allowances for all children, including young children. We said: It is important for 1.8 million families that they get a balance. That is why our second request is: Positive energy for the future of the country. Voices You want to increase the family allowance for all children in this country! The families need that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Third claim: What about giving 400 000 people in need of care in this country an increase in the amount of care, so that 400 000 people in that country get a little support from us? That is why we are in favour of increasing the care allowance. - That's the third point. I invite you to make the country positive with positive energy in the future! The fourth requirement we make is free access to universities. Dr. Schüssel, can you not do what you and the Vice-Cancellor had, namely, free access to universities and youth? I am in favour of the fact that there are no financial barriers at universities, and therefore we want the tuition fees to be abolished! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Fifth point: If women and men in this country work hard all day and do it for 40 to 45 years of their lives, it is only fair if we promise these people that after 40 or 45 years of hard work at the pension nothing will be deducted. That is why we want the hacker regulation to be extended so that there is justice for the older generation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I now also know why we have not reached a fairness agreement with regard to the current debate, these aggressions, these diffamations and assumptions that have accompanied the ÖVP election campaign all the time: Fairness is obviously a foreign word for you! I'm going to read to you what you said about Werner Faymann. – For example, Erwin Pröll, head of the ÖVP, said that Faymann is of course ideologically solidified, but goes to work without being shy. I also quote your country captain Sausgruber, who said about Werner Faymann: Cooperation at the level of the Ministry with Werner Faymann is good. I also quote Josef Pröll, who said about Werner Faymann: The collaboration with Werner Faymann works well. I feel comfortable in discussions with Werner Faymann, and there's a lot going on. Josef Pühringer, Head of State of the ÖVP: Thank you, Werner Faymann! He has very much supported us with the Upper Austrian Infrastructure Package! I even have – and this is a rarity! – a positive report from Mr Missethon is heard! That's really a rarity! Mr. Missethon said: There is the axis of reason with Werner Faymann, who wants to work for the country. That's really it! I can tell you: I know I can't convince you now, Mr. Schüssel, that you will vote for Mr. Werner Faymann on Sunday. But I'm telling you: It would be good for the country to make the country more socially just and modern and equipped with opportunities for everyone!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e9888	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e9911	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We have heard it, and the facts and facts are not to be denied: The economic situation is becoming more difficult. The financial crisis is still breathing the world. It has not yet stood out at Weitem, even if such unimaginable amounts as 700 billion dollars are being used up. The economic researchers are reviewing the growth forecast. The industry is talking about a break-up of orders. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the challenge for politics at such a time? – I would just like to mention two challenges, one human being and one subject-matter. The human challenge: In such a situation, politics needs a strong leadership with economic competence, reliability and credibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl as well as other intermediate calls at SPÖ.]] I have expected this call, Mr Cot; therefore, I am now saying the following: It is not enough now to have many years of experience in how to finance the taxpayer's expensive housing rate to buy the sympathy of newspapers. That's not enough, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also say very clearly, Mr Faymann: In economically difficult times, I do not want politics to be aligned according to the line of a large newspaper. I don't want that! Now a word for the “Kronen Zeitung”: I accept and respect the success of the “Kronen Zeitung”. You have succeeded in becoming the world's largest newspaper per capita! Success is no coincidence, and this is undoubtedly a success for Mr. Dienand! However, I do not want – and I say that very clearly – that the “Kronen Zeitung” on 29 October. September with the headline opens: We're chancellors! I do not want that, ladies and gentlemen. I think that this would not be good for the country, it would be a matter of political concern to democracy and the wrong path in economically difficult times! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need a personality that is reliable, credible and responsible with the taxpayer's money. In one word: We need a personality as it represents our Minister of Finance Willi Molterer, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Willi Molterer himself said: I may not be the crown of creation, but surely I am not the creation of the crown. – I think that is what will happen in the near future, especially in economically more difficult times, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the practical requirements: I am voting for Mr Colleagues. Van der Bellen, when he says that a point was discussed far too little in the campaign. I believe that the most necessary thing we need now in the face of these crisis situations is an attractive location policy for Austria's economic location. And when we talk about ‘economic location’, this includes first jobs, second income and third social security. Social responsibility goes only with a strong economy! [[Abg. Riepl: And vice versa!]] Mr Riepl! They hopefully accept that the economy is the source of energy for social warmth. Without a strong economy, there can be no social warmth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I was already in this house when President Benya was still sitting here, who always said: First you have to work it out, then you can distribute it! – Mr Faymann, remember what President Benya said here! [[Abg. Riepl: Distribute Court of Justice!]] Yesterday, Landeshuptmann Erwin Pröll, just quoted by Mrs Bures, told an event that his father had always said the following: A lump is the one who gives more than he has! – This principle should be taken to heart, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So it is about job location policy, and I think it is grotesk that we are discussing today whether a lower VAT should be charged on watchmen. Minister Faymann, it is about jobs for our employees in the economy – and not about watchmen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] The second major focus is on: If a VAT reduction on food is decided today, we must, and I agree with the Minister of Finance, forget the reduction in income and wage tax for the medium-sized country. This capital is playful then! [[Abg. Parnigoni: When you get to power!]] This is the wrong way, Mr Parnigoni, because we all know that we can then transfer these 1 billion to the four major trading groups. This would be much less bureaucratic in view of what you have brought in to the Price Act here! One last, ladies and gentlemen, which is especially dear to me: I know debt is like a drug. First, you're high, you can realize everything you can't afford, but afterwards the total collapse comes. My accusation to the policy as it is now made by the SPÖ and probably also receives the support of the FPÖ is: They are wasting the future of our children! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Faymann, I have already said this: That's the biggest accusation I can make!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10058	Next, Mrs. Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek will speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10082	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! On Sunday it is elected, but I still believe that the Austrian population has deserved to be very concrete, sober and objective in dealing with future issues and to offer solutions. When I take the banking crisis as the starting point for an Austrian future discussion, I begin by quoting the newspaper “Die Zeit”, which has entitled: “Civilize capitalism! Greed and great-grand whales have led to the worst banking scrap for generations. Our economic system is at stake if we do not radically rethink.” I believe that this is also a good starting point for us to approach things a little more up-to-date and radical and to provide guidance on major issues. Some previous speakers are getting involved in the election campaign and are throwing themselves into the head of polemics, which has not happened. I suggest: Let's talk about what should happen! If there is so much talk about the banking crisis, then one must be said: As a result of the banking crisis, there is great uncertainty both between the people who are now in retirement and those who are saving for the pension, and also among young people. That's where you should give an answer. Indisputable, I believe that public pension provision should be the main pillar and that tax incentives – as they have been introduced under black and blue in recent years – have been a wrong way for occupational and out-of-business precautions. From our point of view – and I believe that there is consensus – state pension provision is the most important and safe for future generations when they are linked to the right pension system, Mr. Schüssel! I believe that a way we should all go together in this House to the safety of the young generation is to say: No matter how long you worked, no matter how long you lived, no matter how many interruptions you had through internships and how many career interruptions you had through family break et cetera, at age you have a right to a basic pension of 900 €. If there's this base, no one's gonna fall into the poverty trap. I think it is very important to give this security, namely a basic pension for all, even for the 300 000 women who are not currently entitled to an independent pension. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's what I got to a second question: The tuition fees are abolished today. – I think it is the wrong place to think about tuition rates et cetera when it comes to redistribution and social justice. Study fees, yes, the entire education system should be accessible, from kindergarten to universities. Young people in education should have accessible access to educational institutions. When we talk about justice, we talk about the tax system, then we talk about reintroducing the tax system to a fair degree or a moderate tax on property. In connection with justice, do we really talk about a discharge of those who really need it? That's the place to make social justice! In this context, however, it is not a question of young people who are in training, because they are all supposed to have free access to educational institutions! I don't understand the rectors either, and I don't understand the uncertainty about this package now! We have fought for years to abolish the tuition fees. But what is connected with it – and today is the much greater success for the young generation and also for research and science – is a huge investment package, namely €200 million more each year for universities. This is something that has not yet been done! I mean, you should all vote in agreement, because it is indisputable that our universities need more resources, more places to study, more research and more science – and not less! On this point I do not understand the rectors either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, if you believe that recognized refugees in Austria – that is, people who have a refugee procedure that comes from, for example, Chechnya, for which there is evidence that a refugee is recognised – should pay student fees, then I really don't understand you! It is precisely these people who need our support. If you're almost like an accusation bringing and saying that it is the worst thing that refugees now need not pay any more tuition fees, I ask you: Is this your only contribution to education policy and to the entire study fee debate? That is really impoverished, and that is very sad as far as a certain human orientation is concerned! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One of the major issues of the future – and unfortunately far too little time for that – remains climate change and energy policy. We have price increases from one day to the other from $25 per barrel. The oil price has thus become a completely inevitable thing. And if you are making fun of it, Mr Cap, and with regard to the boiler exchange programme with golden boilers, I cannot really imagine your future competence on this question! If you say that VAT reduction is a real relief measure, I say: Okay, the VAT applies to everyone. But let us really relieve the young families, the single parents and the pensioners! Let's free her from the poverty trap! We have now exchanged a boiler with a pensioner. As of next year, it will have to bear 1 800 € less in annual heating costs. The investment amounted to €3 000 for a single furnace heating. – I think these are real concepts that are practical, applicable, concrete and feasible. I mean, people have speech bubbles like “We’re for environmental protection anyway!” or “We’re for climate protection anyway!” Instead, let us make real concrete offers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are still 230 000 people in Austria who are working full - time and still cannot live there. Among them are very many women. Why do we not adopt a legal minimum wage law? Why is it not possible here in the house – I am now also addressing the SPÖ – to adopt a minimum statutory wage so that no one earns less than €7.25 per hour? I don't understand! I also do not understand why it is not possible to valorise and adapt emergency aid. And I don't understand why in this pension increase the little ones should get as much increase now as the big ones! That's exactly the problem! I mean, one should actually look at the smallest of pensioners and give them much more than the recipients of high pensions! However, the last increase has already been as described, and we are doing so today in this House. I do not understand this when we are talking about social justice or a new social Austria. But perhaps someone else can speak on the SPÖ side! I would like to address one last word to the FPÖ: Mr Strache, I believe that it is the wrong way to lead something better with scapegoat strategies in Austria. I think it's the wrong way to find a culprit for every problem. It is not better for anyone to be responsible for it, but it is only better for everyone to develop solutions together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I think it is extremely unfair to women in particular if you also find scapegoats in this area and speak of “general madness”. Think about it! Do you mean the 300 000 pensioners? Do you really think that the women in Austria are so preferred that you have to speak of a “general madness ”? Stop it! I don't think that's a good way for Austria. Austria now needs concrete, feasible solutions, a bit of sobriety and materiality and less hustle and bustle.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10202	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10224	Mr President. High government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear TV viewers! I should like to advance the central sentence of the understanding of the Freedom Party's economy, economic policy and financial policy, which reads as follows: No part of society is supposed to be unjust from another part of society. Of course, Mr Westenthaler, we are obviously difficult to understand in terms of content on issues of distribution justice. Indeed, distribution justice is not to be traded as a bearer block over the decades, but to be re-evaluated according to current conditions. I now come to an area of members of our society, which has been very promised and which has not yet been kept by the rulers. I'm talking about the middle class. Let me briefly quote the objective facts: According to the current income and wage tax curve, 2.5 million people pay no income and wage tax; 2.5 million of the persons employed pay them. Lastly, in 1987, the peak tax rate was set at € 51 000 today – 1987! At that time less than 50,000 people were affected; today – the curve has remained unchanged – 500 000 people are affected. That is to say, a measure of injustice, of the hurt of this middle class, which is unbearable, and I guarantee, on behalf of the Freedom Party, that if the Freedom Party has enforcement power, this condition will be changed immediately. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You were in the government once too!]] It is not the case that for years and decades and even today the middle class will be conjured again, the care of the middle class as a phantasmatorie will be conjured by the lips of the powerful, and nothing behind it! Sound and smoke, nothing behind it! The Freedom Party guarantees the discharge of the middle class in the next legislative period. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ: How?]] Next point: I come very quickly to the question of the reduction in turnover tax. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] The alcoholics may calm down; I am one of the mineral water drinkers. . I describe the effects of a reduction in the VAT on basic food in quite sober words. In basic national economics textbooks it is to be read, in basic courses to hear with a folk school character, that a tax measure never has a single effect. What would they be? Effects of a reduction in VAT, provided that it is decided today? [[Abg. Scheibner:... for writing!]] – You will be happy to join me if I speak. If you can get stenography, even better for you. [[Abg. Scheibner: I write with you normally!]] – What would the consequences be? Step one: Clearly, there would be an economicly desired inflation reduction effect. – That is what the President of the National Bank says; this is an unexpected source, because it has ordered the Lord to be red and black. Second effect: As it is micro-economically admitted that it is not powerful, it is assumed that these amounts will immediately be reintroduced into consumption. So when we speak of €400 or €600 million, it is not money that will be withdrawn from the state or from the volume of the money cycle, but amounts that will be included in the consumption, which will generate revenue tax again. In the absence of turnover tax-generative effects, this has a desirable effect in times of weakening economies, namely the recovery of consumption; Consumer recovery is always an extremely desirable effect for the people of Europe. – So, no one can say that we are slowing down from the state resources without any other effects that would be quite desirable. Next point: If the medications and cures were to be discharged, the local health telephone would immediately be released from the general budget, so that the otherwise necessary transfer from the general budget would be possible. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Without costing taxpayers anything!]] So much for the effect of any reduction in sales tax. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10328	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10350	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It was already interesting to hear the election speeches of ÖVP and SPÖ. Mr Faymann, who announces that he wants to become Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, is again a completely new person. That means he didn't even exist in the last federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But as you can see, it's also going without chancellors!]] – It also goes without chancellors, that's right, probably even better. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a new government model!]] – But you should not forget, however, that such chancellors as Gusenbauer promise a lot before the election, break everything after the election and then dive somewhere. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You're funny back there! In intermediate calls, they are all courageous, only when they stand out here, you think they need a diaper pants because nothing comes out. I really like that with you up there. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] So, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic... – Oh great! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Such a... Discussant!]] Mr Jarolim, the judicial politician! Okay, let's go for an excursion. I'm coming back to you, but I'd like to listen to the calls. Mr Jarolim, Mr Justice politician, we are coming to the judicial policy of the SPÖ and this Federal Government: The Minister of Justice is famous for saving her. We all want to save to bring volume for tax relief. Where did she save? – She released prisoners, ladies and gentlemen, massively! Thousands of prisoners have been released! I'm telling you quite honestly: I hope that they will now sit in the elections not only in the party venues, but also talk to the people. [[Abg. Pepper: Don't worry!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I have spoken to people, for example, in favorites, Mr Colleague, your alleged stronghold, where there are older people who say that they no longer trust in the house after the intrusion of darkness. They stay at home, lock everything up, lock up. – I say to you: We do not want the righteous citizens to be imprisoned, but we want to know the prisoners imprisoned! They released her! This is the wrong policy that we are blaming you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The citizens are afraid of the host robbers!]] After Mr. Jarolim's trip back to you, Minister Faymann: You come here and say you're gonna do anything else. – You were Minister of Coordination, Minister Faymann! The increase of 1.7 percent has gone over your desk – a shame for the pensioners! And when you get out of here and say, We want to stand for secure pensions, then that's a joke. Then the same level as we had at the time Chancellor Vrannitzky, who wrote a pensioner's letter before the election, in which he promised that the pensions would not be reduced, and immediately after the election the pensions had been reduced. – This is the same level we know about you and your party! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You say you have to protect against speculators. - Who speculated? It was here in Parliament that we had to make a guarantee, a state liability for the BAWAG and thus also for the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, because speculation has caused billions of losses. They were your people, your comrades, who had to answer that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And here you come now and say we need to protect our pensioners from the speculators?- Oh, my God! That's not the point! With fear-making, one cannot make a policy of the future, but one simply has to say: We need to give the young people more money, more resources in their hands, so that they have spaces for self-sufficiency in addition to an important state pillar – there is no question at all that this is important in the future as well! We also need to make a family policy with which childbearing is no longer a social issue. – We would have expected this to happen today, Minister Faymann. Nothing came here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Next point: Health policy. – You said: Rehabilitation! - Yes, but how? How do you want to reform the health system? There were also She is the Minister of Coordination, who has increased the cost of health care in the past legislative period. Where is the new approach, which I have repeatedly proposed here, that we invest in prevention instead of in the disease? – Up to €3 billion could be saved in the health system if you invest in this new forward-looking philosophy. Nothing has been heard from you here! You also say: We want a tax reform that reduces taxes! – Yes, what has prevented you from doing so? They were ministers of coordination, over your desk the increase in mineral oil tax has gone as the first measure of this federal government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] They demand tax reductions, but in truth increase They take the taxes, continue to get into the pockets of the Austrians. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the policy that we are blaming you! Here you try to illustrate that you are completely new, have nothing to do with it and want to make improvements for people, but in fact it is you who are responsible for this situation in our country, which is responsible for the fact that people can't afford anything more. – If you were among the people, you would know exactly that you were responsible. Mr Molterer, you are of course also in demand. We know exactly how difficult it is to impose tax reforms on you, tax relief, only then did we get through in 2005. The strong SPÖ with the Federal Chancellor has fallen over and has not been able to enforce himself. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, it would be necessary to continue to strengthen the purchasing power of the Austrians, as we have proposed: 200 € in direct payment, now and immediately, for the Austrians, that would increase purchasing power! We must continue to force Austria's economic location. Only healthy companies create jobs, and only when we can increase employment will the tax revenue be guaranteed, which in turn guarantees our social system. – This is not neoliberalism, but a clear answer to the state ideologies you have dreamed of over and over again. ‘Consumer’, BAWAG, nationalized industry: All this has shown that this is the wrong way. – We want to go another way: Market economy, yes, but with social control and with appropriate requirements. That is the way forward, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the study fees you want to abolish from the SPÖ – and I am really surprised that the FPÖ agrees with that; Mrs Glawischnig confirmed this earlier –: They will put in place the really "total" measure that asylum seekers will also be exempt from the study fee. I do not understand this at all, because for as long as there are 300 € to be paid in kindergarten fees per month in red Vienna, as long as small workers and employees in red Vienna also have to pay hundreds of euros in school money, so that their children are properly taught in a private school, because in some districts, in problem districts, I would say that there are up to 90 percent children with non-German mother tongue in public schools, so as long as this is the case, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to see why the same people now have to spend 150 million € from their own tax money to get rid of the tuition fees! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong way! There must be some other thing to do: Set kindergarten fees to zero plus mandatory visit, because it is also an important question in terms of integration that children learn German. This would also ensure that there is no two-class society in the education system. These are all things that we should discuss here, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In addition, you said that you were the only alternative, I tell you: It's too little to be against! Therefore: Whoever wants to have concrete approaches in addition to criticism is at the BZÖ, is well removed from the Jörg Haider list, but not to those who only criticize, but then every time it comes to carrying responsibility again.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10558	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10580	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council – he is not in the Chamber right now, but he will certainly be told – you have forgotten a crucial point in your speech: If purchasing power falls, then the economy is not going well either, because then people can afford nothing more and then the economy can sell nothing more. That's a simple rule. It is therefore all the more necessary that the five-point-sofort programme of social democracy be implemented immediately and quickly, ladies and gentlemen very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: And who pays this?]] If there are signs of a weakening economic situation, then immediately the next evil will come: Unemployment is rising. – Forecasts indicate that there can be an increase of approximately 25,000 unemployed in Austria by the year 2009. And here I am entirely with Mr Faymann, the Federal Minister, who said that unemployment is probably the most inhumane form, because people who are in unemployment have no perspective; these are serious fates, these are major problems. Unemployment also brings poverty, and therefore everything has to be – I emphasize: everything! – it is expected that unemployment will be combated, now. This includes many measures, some of which have already been put in the Federal Government led by a Social Democratic Chancellor, namely Chancellor Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Hornek: Where is he?]] I would remind you, for example, that there were the first correct and important steps in the fight against organised social fraud. Before an employee is employed in a holding, registration must be made. And in this regard, I can remember that the ÖVP has been very well decorated for a long time and has said very often: That's not possible, we can't do that! It is equally necessary and important – as we have taken very important steps together – to create a so-called training guarantee for young people. If young people do not have the opportunity to learn a teaching profession in a farm, they will have the opportunity to enjoy their vocational training, which is important for the future, either in a teaching workshop or in a schooling. That too is an important point. It is very crucial that we have also succeeded in combating youth unemployment. In this context, I should like to remind you that, when you were from Black-Orange-Blue in the Federal Government, there was a very strong increase in youth unemployment. [[Abg. Scheibner: Be glad that we made such a good policy at the time!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is still much else to be done in connection with labour market policy, for example, a specialist offensive is necessary, and there have already been important steps, but I wish that much more action will be taken for women. Ladies and gentlemen, to get it to the point: Over the last two years, there have been and are more than 160 000 people employed and 50 000 unemployed. This is a good start, but this path must continue. Now on the emergency measures in connection with the assistance of people. We must ensure that people can afford more. Our programme presented is a good, correct and important step in the right direction. I would also like to mention that 2 per cent of the prescription fee currently benefits more than 100 000 people; by the end of the year it will be around 300,000 people. This too is an important and correct step towards poverty reduction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two more points which are very important to me and which I would therefore like to put right here again. The first point concerns the increase in pensions. – Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the older generation deserved a fair and safe pension. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why didn't you do it?]] – It is simply not clear that, unfortunately, in America, speculators have put a lot of capital into the sand, which Austrian pensioners should not now get expensive compensation. [[Abg. Tamandl: Who says that?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This is simply unsocial, highly valued ladies and gentlemen! The fact that you – and I am on the second point – do not give particular value to the state pension in many areas and do not attach any particular importance to it is also evidenced by the fact that pension reductions occurred during your government period, resulting in an accident-like abolition of pensions. [[Abg. Zweytick: ÖGB-pensions!]] Unfortunately, you have already forgotten all of this; the electorate is certainly not. There were a large number of horrors that this federal government could at least weaken there and there. Finally, to health care, to our health system. – Mr Molterer, how am I supposed to understand your statement that the state should resort to a basic provision in health policy? And how am I supposed to understand when Mr Klubobmann Schüssel says that the State has a basic guarantee to provide for all and beyond can be differentiated by means of risk insurance or better performance? – So I don’t want there to be a two-class medicine in this country. [[Abg. Kößl: You misunderstand this!]] I don't want people to be asked, before they get to the hospital, if they have a credit card or if the bank card is covered. We Social Democrats want the best health care for all people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We want, ladies and gentlemen, to fight poverty, secure jobs, increase jobs, the best health system for all and fair and fair pensions! We simply want to make Austria more social and just! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10740	Ladies and gentlemen, I am now going to interrupt the sitting until 1/15 p.m. I would draw attention to the fact that the main committee in local VI will open its meeting at 1 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10775	I'll start the interrupted session again. The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10813	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) Consciousness of responsibility To secure the future is the motto of how we can meet challenges. I think I actually wanted to say that towards SPÖ, because no one can do that more and better than the Austrian People's Party with Willi Molterer at the top, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Especially in times like these in which people... – Mr. Jarolim, take obviously [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But the farmers deserved someone other than the grill!]] You really don't take people's concerns seriously, otherwise you wouldn't react like that! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We need to talk openly!]] People are afraid of their jobs, ladies and gentlemen, and they are afraid of Austria's economic location. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] That's where we're different. This will not be the choice of the opposites, but there will be quite clearly the difference between the different parties. Whoever runs Harakiri, like Faymann, or who works responsible for Austria, ladies and gentlemen, that is crucial for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a pity for Austria that Mr Faymann took over the motto of Gusenbauers: Before elections, they promised everything – and on 29 May. September then break everything again! Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, you can't understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The difference is that we have a vice chancellor, a finance minister who has given security to the people of Austria in the shortest time in this period of government, with the double budget, with the financial compensation, ladies and gentlemen, and that was just Willi Molterer. Where was Gusenbauer? - He's not here today either. Where is he at all, the Federal Chancellor? Is he still there? Is this the responsibility of SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen? [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Where's Mr. Gusenbauer? - It's a shame he's not here. People will see this very carefully. The spectators will assess how you deal with the responsibility for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am honest to say that the reduction in VAT and also the abolition of tuition fees are for me the biggest buffering action of this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] I am sorry that Mr. Strache is doing to Mr. Faymann the robbers for this action, that he is doing the robbers there, where people actually only pay for it. You don't have any of that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] No one has anything of it. The consumer has nothing of it, and especially the farmers have nothing of it. On the contrary: They all pay the token for it; especially the small farmers with €15 million, the direct marketers. Mr Cap, if you say that the farmers are not harmed, then you have no idea what you are talking about. The €15 million for the direct marketers, €45 million for the wine farmers and a total of this reduction to 5% for all the flat-rate farmers in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, we will hopefully not let this happen in this Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Lapp: That's not true!]] People want security, people want to work, people want to earn income, they want to be able to invest and they want value creation to remain in the region. That is why Willi Molterer is right when he says that the best social policy is to create jobs. I would also like to do this today. We are creating the framework conditions, but I would also like to thank the many entrepreneurs of Austria today for creating more and more jobs in this country due to these framework conditions. These are mainly – to 99 percent – small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria – all over Austria, including in rural areas. [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, what are you doing for it?]] Here there must be a corresponding burden and not taxation as this red-blue bazaar event wants to do today. The following discharges must be granted: Families relieve, relieve middle class, instead of burdens, as you plan to introduce this red-blue coalition, which is formed here, namely for farmers to introduce the transport value, a multiplying for the farmers, for the many farmers. [[Abg. Oillinger: CO2 air produce!]] In fact, this also endangers consumer safety if farmers are so burdened. They want to raise land taxes, and this is not only true of the farmers, it affects the owners of the property, it meets the family owners quite massively, ladies and gentlemen. And you want to introduce a property tax again. They want to be burdened and not burdened! Madam President, I know it is unlikely that we should say 'rapidry', but what is going on here is red and blue predatory.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10989	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11011	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann's bowl, I can't leave one in the room like this: You and your then Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser have the input tax rate of 38.3 percent to answer. That must be said once! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the current crisis in the financial markets, I find three things to be excruciating: Firstly, there have been warnings from numerous financial experts who have strongly warned of the great damage and destruction of assets. [[Abg. Oils: That's right!]] All these warnings were struck in the wind. Second point: Supervisory authorities have delegated their responsibility to private banks, to so-called credit rating agencies, which played down the risks of new financial instruments and thus, Mr. Finanzminister, allowed the emergence of this speculation bubble at all. And you, Mr Finanzminister, have been watching it for years at the European level, in concert with all the other finance ministers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thirdly, I find it outrageous – and this must be borne in mind – that the winners of this speculation bubble, of course, also face losers, that there are hundreds of thousands of people in Austria alone with occupational pensions, with private pensions, who had to purchase massive losses and cuts. Let's remember: It was you, Minister of Finance, who had been talking about the state pension system for years. They have always talked about the unfinancing of state pensions and have been secunded by the insurance industry, which has naturally weathered a large business. They have made people afraid that in the future fewer and fewer taxpayers would face more and more pensioners. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: These are simple facts!]] As a result, they have invited people into occupational and private pension schemes, with reference to tax promotion and their support, but without saying what risks are involved – and, I say, with better knowledge, Mr Finanzminister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many studies prove that what you have claimed is simply wrong. Let's take a closer look at the pensioners at the operating funds: Only due to the losses of the pension funds between 2000 and 2002, about 500 000 occupational pensioners have had to take up stock losses of up to 25 percent – not yet included the massive investment losses that can be expected in this year. The conclusion can only be one: Any further hallucination of the state pension system is therefore highly politically unresponsible. Instead of guaranteeing the people with the state pension scheme security in old age, Mr. Finanzminister, you are providing more and more people with speculation on the financial markets. I just think that's scandalous. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, you, Mr. Finanzminister, are obviously also one of those unimproveable fundamentalists who believe that stability in the financial markets is self-evident. Only in this way can I explain your past inactivity. Today's announcements of new rules on financial markets cannot be outlawed by hypocrisy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What happened in Austria? – In Austria, there has been a lukewarm financial market reform in response to the BAWAG speculation crisis. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] But where, Minister of Finance, are the advances at European and international level for greater transparency in financial markets, for a ban? – The crisis has been going on since August 2007. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Did you sleep?]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Did you sleep?]] What did you do, Minister of Finance? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When did you work for a ban on dubious, complex financial innovations? When have you committed yourself to independent institutions that will carry out the assessment of risks in the future? [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: the first time a year ago!]] When did you work intensively at the European level to enforce an EU financial transaction tax? [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: the first time a year ago!]] – These were all lip confessions, but not serious advances. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nor have there been You're an answer to the recession we're heading for. The answer must and can only be in an immediate – yes, immediate – discharge of lower and medium incomes, via wage tax and/or social security contributions, but not through a reduction in VAT; this is addressed to SPÖ. It is correct to make it about a wage tax reduction, which is also confirmed by the head of the Economic Research Institute, Karl Aiginger, and this helps against the cost; to this end, the rich of the country – Meinl, Haselsteiner and as they all may call it – are to make a contribution. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: But he did not say that yesterday!]] It is time for more tax justice in this country! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11180	The next speaker is Mr Lutz Weinzinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11204	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies! Gentlemen! At today's meeting on item 1 of the agenda, which we are still insisting on, which will be a happy, long session today, we have heard a statement by the Vice-Chancellor on the subject "The correct answers in Austria's fiscal and financial policy to the global financial crisis". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now allow myself to ask you the question: Have you heard the correct answers? [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Yes!]] - I didn't hear her. I have heard some answers, some suggestions, I have heard statements of intent, and I often wonder why these declarations of intent have not been enforced in recent years, even decades. If I remember correctly – and I am well known to be a somewhat older boy – the ÖVP has been involved in the government since 1986 and has set up the Finance Ministers – or at least there were their very close finance ministers when we think of the famous Karl-Heinz, which was made a miracle. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: But he came from you originally!]] – He originally came from us and was abducted us, yes, I like to admit, this has actually happened to us at some. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] All these great ladies and gentlemen, all these excellent, governmental and, above all, state-bearing, great politicians have not managed to bring us down from this huge debt mountain – not even to say, although it is always complained that we have these high debts in the state bank and that we must also serve them, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl]] A significant part of the total wage tax revenue, please go to the interest service of our public debt. This will be forgotten very often and very gladly. For decades, government-bearing, government-enabled ministers have been acting in this of our Republic, but they have not even succeeded in reducing our debt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] In the last three to four years, the Minister of Finance has taken over €10 billion more than he had originally budgeted. Where's the money? – Indeed, there would have to be balances at the end of the year, there would have to be profits, there would have to be revenues that would be used to cover our debts. Nothing's happened! Ladies and gentlemen, what happened today was, in principle – at least for the spectators – we say, amusing. I thought this morning, well-known journalists claim that we, the Freedom Party, are mainly pursuing a beer tent policy. I admit that we can do quite well to act in beer tents, and that there is indeed a lot going on there. [[Abg. Oleagers: Dämmerschüppen! Damn!]] – But what's going on here this morning: This is where you, ÖVP and SPÖ, have moved the beer tent policy into Parliament! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was a beer tent atmosphere, and at the end of the day the gladiator will be delighted. I've been surprised that none of you have gone up on the tables, as in beer tents here and there. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] You have moved the election campaign from the street, from the squares, from the beer tents to this high house. And “Hohes Haus” is probably the name of this building because it is built so high, I can’t see another meaning today. Ladies and gentlemen
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11302	Unfortunately, your agreed speaking time is over. You've got to get to the end. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11317	Final word: I very much hope that after this election, at another composition of this House, we can actually address the real problems of our home country, our Republic. Whether as a government participant or as an opposition – we should work together on our home country!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11347	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Darmann. 4 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11369	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Believers at home and at the gallery! Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer and Mr. Federal Minister and extremely unsuccessful government coordinator Faymann “happy” us with verbal speeches at the beginning of this debate – for the protocol: “happy” in quotes. They said on the subject of global financial crisis what everything should be done. Words are one, actions the other. You have had the last two years to set up appropriate initiatives here in our Parliament and to support our initiatives for over a year to deliver the population. What did you do? They argued and did nothing for the citizens. All you've done and where you've found a way together, it was to burden the population – through the tax increase on mineral oil in terms of petrol and diesel last year and then, after a winter in which very many people in Austria could hardly afford heating, by a further tax increase on heating oil this year. Now comes the next winter. What's going to happen when you're after? That means a lot of talk is being done here, but it's not acting. Yesterday, there was an economic summit on the financial crisis. There is supposed to be measures for economic recovery, but only at some point when, according to the words of Federal Minister Bartenstein, the crisis “is going through” in Austria. That's not our way. We from the BZÖ are not waiting for any crisis to happen in Austria, but it is necessary to take measures now so that such a crisis does not occur. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The purchasing power must be strengthened in all areas. There is a need to put in place credible measures. In Carinthia – that is what the Carinthian seal of quality – there have already been appropriate measures. These are measures such as the low-cost diesel service stations opened by the country of Carinthia for all Carinthia to relieve the commuters and allow them to save up to €7 per tank on their daily journey from the apartment to the workplace and back. These are measures that really relieve families and counterparts, that's not some pendulum fee that makes up 30 € a year. 7 € per tank, this is a measure initiative implemented in Carinthia. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: The town of Villach do not forget!]] Mr. Trunk, you're the right person now, you've leaned out, that's right. – Free kindergartens in Vienna: A kindergarten square costs 270 to 300 €. The population can hardly afford this. This would be a savings of more than €3,000 per family at a kindergarten, with a half-day children’s playground that would be a savings of € 1,500 to €600. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In Carinthia we have introduced the Free Kindergarten from the third year of life. This is a measure for family promotion and family relief. All of these measures – including school start-up fees, which we have already implemented in Carinthia to relieve the families, €74 per child and year – are the real relief for the families, because the money remains in the people's wallet and is not pulled out. In Carinthia, we currently have a discharge package of €2 400 per family per year. This is a credible policy in the sense of the population. One can only hope that this social policy Jörg Haiders will continue to be the way for the whole of Austria in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11445	Mr Krainer came to speak. I would draw attention to the fact that 6 minutes left for SPÖ from the agreed speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11467	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Although it may be pointless to explain to Mr Darmann every time [[Abg. Scheibner: Try it again!]] The kindergarten is socially staged in Vienna. 40 percent pay nothing, less than a third pay less and about a third pay the full price. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But: What does anyone have of it that a kindergarten is free that does not exist? It is crucial that there is a kindergarten at all! Look You can take care of the under-three-year care in Vienna: Every second crib from all over Austria is in Vienna. Build the cribs! I have nothing against making them even cheaper, so free not only for 40, but for 100 percent; but it is crucial that there is the kindergarten at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] When we look at our federal comparisons, I know that you always like to look at Vienna and always try to put any debt policy around the SPÖ. Then let's look at the following: Which state has the slightest debt? - Vienna. Which state has the highest debts? – Lower Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Since there are democratic elections, Vienna – that is simply the reality – has been ruled almost consistently by absolute majority of social democrats! But you know, before there were democratic elections, there was a mayor Lueger. Do you know how long Vienna has paid for the debt that Lueger made in ten years? Do you know when they were paid? That was 1973, under Mayor Leopold Gratz! Over 70 years was paid! Did the SPÖ get excited about it? No, because it was done with this money, namely a high water pipeline built et cetera. That's normal, please. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Let's look at the Kreisky years – that's supposed to be a huge backpack – and let's compare Kreisky with a bowl! It's relatively simple. Circle: 13 years of single government, five times zero deficit; Tablet: 7 years, once zero deficit. And do you know who made most of the debt in Austria in his time as head of government or as a member of a federal government? – Wolfgang Schüssel. Over 70 percent of the debt we have, he himself voted in the Council of Ministers! In comparison, there are about 10 percent who have caused Bruno Kreisky. Stop telling us who is responsible for debt and non-debts here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Yes, Minister of Finance, it is good that the Austrians know this. They also know that in the mid-1980s, Christian democratic governments left not only debt but also unemployed. Unemployment is much more expensive than any other question. What Kreisky has done here was in truth a blessing for Austria; everyone who has experienced this time and who has had the opportunity to study at the university or to attend a higher school because of the politics of this time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, yes, it lives the past!]] If you blame the SPÖ for distributing sugars here, please look at what you're doing! We don't distribute sugars. We're not making any election promises either. We say what we do here before the election. Today, everyone in Austria can see who is in favour of reducing food costs; who is in favour of abolishing study fees; who is in favour of increasing family support; and who is in favour of increasing the care allowance. These are all things you've never done in your seven years. Don't even have You have put in place these measures! Today, everyone can also see who is in favour of extending the hacker scheme, and who is in favour of increasing pensions. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rädler and Mr Scheibner.]] Their election sugars are €70 million for farmers, namely 50 million for the mother cow premium – of course only for large farmers – and 20 million for the agricultural diesel. In addition, there are €200 million for speculators – I know you are tarnishing this as a “scrupulous law” and as a law to strengthen the capital market – and €400 million for untapped profits for freelancers. That's what you say and do. You are talking about “social meeting”! - That I don't laugh!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11609	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11631	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ff – F aymann f ehlt, can only be said here. He doesn't care what's happening here. Mr Krainer, on the subject of kindergarten: Did you close your eyes? [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes!]] Already at a family income of 2 300 € net – this is a gross income of probably 1 800 € for the father and 980 € for the mother, you have to pay 270 € kindergarten money in Vienna. It is insignificant for these people whether 40 percent of parents don't pay kindergarten money at all. This is a completely non-social measure, and you cannot shut down before it! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As some SPÖ speakers said earlier that we were against the state pension system, wanted to break it down, and so on, you said: Would you have voted in 2003 on the pension reform! You can only increase the pensions if you secure the pensions before. Or what do you want to say to the youth once the pensions are no longer insured and the boys then no longer get a pension? We'll see you in the future. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance said today: He stands for a responsible policy and looks to the future. Every family can not only live today, every family can not only live from today to tomorrow, every family must plan for the next few years. It must plan how it divides its household income. That's what we're doing, too. We do not want any measure, such as the reduction of VAT, which, in accordance with the principle of foundry, is intended to apply to the whole population and is totally unsocial. We want a tax reform. We want to give people money. We have agreed with you in the government programme 2010. Why didn't you stick to it? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Remember the year 2006! You haven't learned anything at all. Firstly, Mr Gusenbauer won the election for you at the time. You sawed it down, and you couldn't keep the election promises. Now Faymann needs to see that he abolishs the tuition fees, just so that you can make one of your 2006 election promises. I don't think the voters can even go with it. To the ÖVP-No on the tuition fees: I think you should make something clear. If, as a government partner, as a supposed government partner, the study fees are a matter of heart to me during a coalition negotiations, I would rather go into opposition instead of becoming a cast builder chancellor, drop all my purposes and say: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Well, the ÖVP didn't want it, I'm the chancellor anyway. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] To conclude, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We will work well for Austria. We have already proved this – they have not been able to prove it in their last two years. And for that you will get the invoice presented on Sunday!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11759	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore part of the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11870	Mrs Mag. Lunacek. There will be 2 minutes of agreed speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11891	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Tamandl has just said the wish that, if certain things are not fulfilled, the ÖVP or she would rather go into opposition. The voters can decide this on Sunday. There will be some who will want it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am quite surprised today at the change in the series of the ÖVP, where at one time even on the part of the Klubobmann Schüssel is talking about the deszocker mentality and against living on the pump. That's what some have mentioned today. Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel, you were, under your chancellorship, there was a Finance Minister Grasser – some still remember him – and he has enforced, you have given the OK to 10 million euros of tax money only for the purpose of the sale of the state-owned housing companies to Lehman Brothers – one of these offzocker companies and locusts. That was with your consent. It was a wish of your Minister of Finance Grasser that we give it to them. They have also pushed people into private pension schemes and put money in their throats. I wonder because you said first, Molterer telephoned with EU representatives, you want global transparency rules, you want European supervisory authorities: However, it was the representatives of the European People's Party – including the Austrian People's Party – who, at the beginning of this week, spoke out against EU-wide supervisory authorities and against an EU-wide framework. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] You didn't do that enough. Unfortunately, my speaking time is almost over. Finally, I would like to make a point that would not burden the budget at all, a long-standing demand of the Greens on human rights: equal rights for lesbians and gays. Ladies and gentlemen, that would cost nothing at all! They from SPÖ and ÖVP have not ensured that people who love the same sex have the same rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11963	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time is over, please come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11979	There was even a little money in the budget about fees at the office. We Greens will see that this is actually happening in the next legislative period. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[13:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12074	Mr Schalle. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group Time remaining: 2 minutes within the framework of the agreement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12095	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! I should like to stress once again that the right way out of the miser, which has caused the red and black government, can only be to strengthen the internal economy. That is to say, we must strengthen mass purchasing power, put forward the tax reform, that is, make a long-term relief of wage and income taxpayers – in concrete terms through a simple, unbureaucratic, but very efficient adjustment of tax levels. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The result: Small earners and the middle class are charged up to €2 500 per year. But what, ladies and gentlemen, has this Federal Government done so far – except for 13 charges, from the ORF tax to the mineral oil tax, these came into the constitutional rank, the tax rate of the foundation was halved, which brings the rich and the rich 400 million – what has it done? What is particularly sad about me is that in agriculture only the large-scale owners are encouraged at the expense of the small ones and that former Commissioner Fischler now even wants to help genetic engineering to break through and even finds support in the ÖVP. So there will certainly be no more small farmers in three to four years. There's no way to talk about organic farming at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] For example, how money is wasted is shown by the Climate Fund. The drivers have paid 200 million over the last two years, and it is awarded in accordance with the principle of foundry. It is promoted double and equal. I'll finish. It would be very important for me to help the poorest of the poor now, in the form of a single payment of €200 and €50 for each child. That would be a great help, just before Christmas. Money is available enough. Only through debureaucratisation and merger of pension insurance institutions would €5 billion remain. From the National Bank, where the special pension schemes were actually abolished, only 2 billion would come. I think there's enough money, and there's no excuse not to relieve the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12147	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Time left: just under 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12168	Ladies and gentlemen! It is always interesting to see what money is for and what is not. And it is particularly exciting when it turns out that Minister of Finance Molterer now wants to adopt a locust law, by means of the locust fund, which even the European Central Bank warns about, €200 million will be pushed into revenge. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Cerberus – BAWAG!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Cerberus!]] On the other hand, we have taken a long time to get the ÖVP to provide €20 million per year for childcare facilities. But I think it's obvious where the money would be more meaningful, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because of “more private, less state”. Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, I am very glad that we did not follow your recipes. I am very glad that Werner Faymannda admits that pension and health care are important state tasks and not just basic security. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is he? Where's Mr. Faymann? He's never here!]] It is important that our pensioners do not have to tremble about how the stock prices develop, that they can rely on safe pensions in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am very glad that we can increase family support today. We could have done this before, but well, we're doing it today. Thank God you have still encouraged yourself to agree that all children should benefit from the increased family allowance as we wanted. The tuition fees will be abolished. The study fees were, of course, an educational barrier far into the middle class. [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Someone who has an average income, when several of his children are studying, spends almost a monthly income for study fees. We'll do this now. This barrier is being removed today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Justice of opportunity in the education system remains an essential concern for us. To reduce VAT, I conclude by saying: I'm very curious about how the BZÖ behaves. If you do not vote in favour, do not add a defeat to us, but you prevent people who have to turn every euro around from being helped!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12269	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I ask the scribes to stand ready to support me in the enumeration of the two motions for resolutions, whose vote will take place in about 10 minutes. Next, I shall grant Mr Magistrate's power. Stadler the word. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12293	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This item on the agenda is as follows: “The right answers in Austria’s tax and financial policy to the global financial crisis”. – When I look at “the right answers” to the global financial crisis, I have to say: This has been an election fight, in which it has only turned around the five points of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Broukal: Right!]] – “Right!” the SPÖ still says! [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] I strongly recommend you to introduce a course on economics/basic knowledge at the Renner Institute. Urgently, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Explain to me, Mr Broukal, what the care money has to do with the global financial crisis in America. Explain this to me! You can explain to me just as well what care money has to do with climate change. There's probably a lot of connection here, you'll confirm that. What does the “hackler regulation” have to do with the global financial crisis in America? Can you explain that to me? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What does VAT reduction have to do with the global financial crisis in America? – Mr Broukal, you are always so well done, let us know. Renner-Institut, basic course: Economics I. That's what your great top candidate has hopefully learned – isn't it? Is that not being taught anymore? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] When I listen to Mr. Faymann... – Mr. Faymann left again, he does not care; once he has given his election speech, he is gone. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is he?]] In fact, what is happening here is not interested in him at all. He was only interested in sending, Hohes Haus. These five points of Mr Faymann have nothing to do with the global financial crisis, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing! They are nothing but a campaign gag, with which Mr Faymann still tries to forget that he slept in the government for 20 months. That's all that has to do with these five points. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Faymann's speech was a great, quite passable speech for a socialist party, but not a statement by a member of the Federal Government in front of the House, ladies and gentlemen. I would have expected something different from a socialist official's statement at a socialist party meeting, which reminds me more of the KPdSU than of Austrian parliamentarianism. Tell him once, make it clear to him that this is not the party day of the KPdSU, before which he speaks here, but that it is a parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] A huge difference, believe me! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is true that it is in the face of a threatening economic downturn – calm down again, you can only learn to do so, ladies and gentlemen from the socialist party – to take anticyclic measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] And it is not an anticyclic measure if at the same time I distribute the reserves that we have formed with the casting pot just because I need a campaign gag. This is not an anticyclic economic measure, Mr Cap. That's what I'm supposed to do. Perhaps you will teach your Mr. Vice-Chancellor about the Renner Institute – because that's all he's going to be, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] I hope that the Austrian voters will prevent this man from becoming Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] This is my deep hope I have. It will be a new edition of the great coalition, which may also prevent the voters from becoming vice-cancers at best – too much more so. Ladies and gentlemen! The class struggle then found its continuation at Colleague Cap. Cap has gone out and declared the US capitalism to be a failure! Capitalism has failed, it lives socialism! 1989 was a triumphal year for international socialism when one listens to colleague Cap. If you, colleague Cap, are actually refocusing your recipes on the experience of real-life socialism today, we are still working with the capitalist economy to work out the damage that they have done in 70 years. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A significant part of what needs to be spent on the economy today is based on the fact that huge damage has been left here. Let us not forget that if we fall over capitalism in such a class struggle. The fact is that there is a monetary crisis here. It must not be said out loud, but it is a huge monetary crisis that is emerging here. And it now requires the cohesion of the reserves one has in order to be able to respond to them – I hope that this remains the budgetary policy – and the deduction of the cost to people. That is why Jörg Haider's proposal was most reasonable to give people 200 € and 50 € for each child immediately via the payroll tax bill. That would have been a reasonable measure. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But now for the voters who are watching today, an analysis of the coalitions that stand out here. It is clear to everyone who has followed today's debate that there is already a cuddly coalition between Red, Cap, and Blue, Strache! [[Abg. Krainer: Between black and orange!]] A special class cuddly coalition. It is not said that one goes together, forms a government – one can at best tolerate it – but it is a real cuddly coalition. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It won't go out!]] How does it feel? Josef Cap, how does it feel in this cuckoo with Mr. Strache? How does it feel in this cuckoo? Today, colleague Van der Bellen has shown a poster of the Freedom Youth ring – I am not a representative of Political Correctness, but that is simply a stupid poster, so you can also discredit a real, good political concern, and all of this is done with it. If I had shown something like this at a time when Jörg Haider was the Federal Partyman of the FPÖ, what do you think, ladies and gentlemen, what would have been cast on these Rostra out of outrage rituals by the SPÖ? Embarrassment rituals! I think that it would have been possible to get three more ways out of the euro area immediately in order to write some opinion. That's how it would have ended! If I imagine that Jörg Haider would have said that only blondes with blue eyes should have children – by the way, my colleague Weinzinger, my wife should not have had children, either three or six more, since she unfortunately has no blond hair and brown eyes; what do I do with it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] After Lutz Weinzinger, she shouldn't have had children! If Jörg Haider had said, the outrageal rituals of the united left would only have been prayed down by this Rostra. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why? – One has the anti-fascist Persilschein because, in return, one makes the Socialists the wall and ensures that Mr Faymann looks a little better before the election than he would otherwise be. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr. Josef Cap, how do you feel about this cuddly party? How do you feel about it? Or do you give the bar so much credit that it can use? Today he has pretended to have nothing in common with Mr Faymann as if he wanted to do nothing with him at all. For that, he has such a “challenge rate” – or what do you allow him to do? – With his “championship” he pretends he didn’t want to touch Faymann at all because Faymann was an exclusion apologist, he says. Ladies and gentlemen, in reality You've been a heart for a long time. Everything agreed! You will not believe that Mr Faymann would have invented five points without having previously failed to guarantee the support of Blue. No one will believe that, ladies and gentlemen! Or is that different, Mr. Faymann? Explain this to us! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you cuddle with people who would have put your predecessor Vranitzky internationally to the Pranger. That's how it looks! This is the double density of your policy that you are currently offering to the Austrian voters. Not that one believes that I am a representative of political correctness or exclusion, no, I just want to make it clear... – Mrs Federal Minister, don't get upset! [[Interference of Federal Minister Silhavy.]] You're not doing well. You'll be gone faster if you keep going. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] You have a problem to make your own comrades clear why you work with such people who You used to call the Pranger. This is the problem that you are overcoming today by getting their support for measures that will be very bitter and very expensive for Austrian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12500	Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, spoke on an actual correction. You know the legal provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12525	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In his speech, Mr Peter Westenthaler said that the Freedom Party abolished the tuition fees for refugees and asylum seekers. – That’s wrong! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: EU foreigners, I said!]] In fact, according to § 92 para. 1 of the current law, which is still in force, has been regulated in such a way as to regulate the adoption and reimbursement of the study contribution. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the aforementioned text of the law up to date.]] Here it is clear from point 4 that Convention refugees have been exempt from study contributions up to date. - Until now! Now the Austrians are equal to this; and that is the difference. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But this is a speech!]] That is, the Austrians don't pay now if they do. But the Convention refugee will have to pay the study contributions in the future, if he is a stroll student.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12585	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I would ask the authors of ÖVP and SPÖ to support me in the counting of the vote on the two motions for resolutions. [[Writer Hagenhofer and writer Jakob Auer go to the Bureau.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. stupid, bookers, colleagues and colleagues on Austria's fiscal and fiscal policy in the light of the global financial crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 95.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Lunacek, colleagues on the introduction of a general financial transaction tax at EU and global level to combat the global financial crisis and to finance development cooperation as well as social and environmental measures. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[14:05:07]] 2. Point Government template: Federal Law amending the Federal Caring Act (677 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12649	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. With regard to this government proposal, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs had a period of up to 23. ==References====External links== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. We therefore come to the debate. Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12682	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that I am still quite speechless after this vote. At the beginning of the debate on the previous item on the agenda of Mr Cap, Mr Cap comes out here and forgets crocodile tears about the cold hearts of the Members sitting here on the side of the Greens or other parties in the National Council, taking up his shirt to make the social warmth of the SPÖ flow, and in the end the SPÖ is voting against the financial transaction tax. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's incredible!]] Yes, I really miss the words! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is an exciting point: Only the SPÖ, which we would probably have expected here, can and will not vote in agreement with us in this way. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Mr Cap, I don't know: What interests will be protected if you get better with the look? [[Abg. Kainz: Incalculable!]] What are the interests of the SPÖs at European level? [[Abg. May. Hakl: Sleep! Sleep!]] Do you have any special relations with foreign exchange dealers, with large investment banks, which seem to suggest that the SPÖ is voting against a financial transaction tax at international level? All right, let's close this! It's about other points. I am of the opinion that the issues which have not been discussed in the statements made by the two Ministers, Mr Molterer and Mr Faymann, but which, of course, are already at this item on the agenda because of the increase in the amount of care, are worth getting a little deeper. Yes, the Greens are for increasing the care allowance, but not necessarily for this variant, Federal Minister Buchinger. Yes, the Greens are and have always been in favour of establishing a care fund in Austria, we are introduced to make the issue of future funding of care a subject of the political debate. And, unfortunately, this debate is missing. I'll come back to that again. Yes, the Greens are in favour of finally discussing not only the increase in care fees, not only small improvements in the 24-hour care, but also, for example, over national quality standards and their control. Yes, the Greens are in favour of something like a nursing attorney who represents the interests of the caregivers. Finally, something should happen! Federal Minister! What did you do in this area? - Nothing until now, unfortunately! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, of course, it's also about me thinking, yes, it was possible to find common accords – for example, with the funding of the care fund. Mr. Federal Minister, you have commissioned a study. The Economic Research Institute, like the Greens, believes – in order to reduce this – that a wealth tax or share of an asset tax would be useful for the financing of the care and that we need it – regardless of whether it is quoted with the Mascherl inheritance and gift tax re-introduction or with an asset tax in general. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you beyond what we decide here: What's more socially just? That everyone and everyone who has a fortune in this Republic is paying a modest contribution from their assets, or is it socially fairer that, when they are in the nursing home, the grandma is plowed up to a small amount of rest and that it is taken of any human dignity as well? Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, yes, I am glad you nodd. But I would like it to happen with your support that we think of the other part of the thing: End with this taxation of the savings book of the grandma or end with removing the grandma in the hospital or in the nursing home! But that means that everyone and anyone who is actually capable, regardless of whether they are in need of care, must make a contribution from the assets. Of course! What is unfair about that and what is more just about the other variant? And it can't be that we say: We leave all the assets out of the game. We are glad that there are many wealthes, but they do not need to make a contribution to the design of social peace or to distribution justice. The one variant, namely the abolition of this taxation of beauty, the elimination of the capacity of the grandmother, in the case of relatives who are in need of care in the nursing home, is, in my opinion, deeply inhuman. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is – you have to say quite clearly – not only inhuman, but, of course, it – all practitioners can confirm this – leads to circumvention practices. Only: For the people in the nursing homes, it is nevertheless a lot to say when it comes to their savings book – and this is not about the big sums, but perhaps about 10,000 or 20,000 €, with which the grandma or the grandpa then still funding the grandchildren a little bit – when they have to give up this money and have to be used back to the so-called beauty of a few thousand euros, with which they can then pay their funeral. – Go, please, that’s really deeply inhuman, what you do to the old people, because this, of course, also robs them of their importance, their existence and their reputation to the family members up to this last rest. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I don't just want to talk about it now, ladies and gentlemen. I have already said at the outset that we Greens are for increasing the care allowance, but with a significant restriction. And it's worth talking about. We are in favour of a linear increase of the care allowance for all stages of care. 5 percent for everyone! For, Federal Minister Buchinger, please explain to me why the price for those involved in lower care levels should be less than for those with higher care levels! What you suggest is an increase of care allowance at care levels 1 and 2 by 4 per cent, in care levels 3 to 5 by 5 per cent, and in care levels 6 and 7 by 6 per cent. Where is the difference whether I am being cared for at care level 1 or 2 or at care level 6 or 7, as regards the cost? There's no difference! And so it is also if you really want to take the situation of people in need of care seriously, even for all the caregivers as they are affected by the cost. Everyone has the right to the same compensation. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] And, Mr. Federal Minister, not only this 5 percent once, because in this situation we would have to discuss it, not only with people in need of care, but also with unemployed people, emergency workers and social assistance workers, that they also receive a cost compensation. In the case of unemployment benefit and emergency aid, there is no such compensation. Later in the debate on pensions, we will discuss the balance between pensioners and pensioners. But you cannot explain to me, Mr. Federal Minister, why inflation should be below-average for members of care levels 1 and 2. The following, Mr Federal Minister, is a very fundamental question. [[The speaker holds a newspaper inserat regarding care, on which the Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger is depicted, up to the height.]] I would actually like to read from a Federal Minister – no matter what color, no matter what question it is – such ads as you have made them switch, the key points of the care package, before this was decided, one month before we decide on this care package today, not in a newspaper. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Abuse!]] That, Mr. Federal Minister, and I know you're not the only one... [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am pleased with this applause, but I hope you will now also be able to praise Mr Bartenstein, the Federal Minister of Employment, who is now “secured jobs”, who is able to save his ads three or four days before the elections. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is an increase in taxpayers' incomes, as well as the representative of the Federal Minister Buchinger. In the evening the sloth will be diligent! In the last few weeks before the elections, devils will come out of the SPÖ and ÖVP ministers to advertise what this stuff holds! The main thing is, you're in the backyard again. And it is best if the photo of the minister or the minister is the largest and the text is as insignificant as possible. Mr. Bundesminister Buchinger, you advertise here that the care allowance is paid from 1. ==References====External links== – Yes, but please advertise it in November or December if it is from 1. January 2009 will be increased, and please don't advertise it until the National Council has decided, because only then do you have a legal basis to turn such ads on! A Council of Ministers decision is so insignificant – I am sorry to have to say that – as if the social partners or anyone else decided to do something. We should take the dignity, but also the right to exist of this House seriously, ladies and gentlemen, whether this is a red or a black minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Care funding for the future, health funding for the future and pension financing for the future. – Mr Stadler asked the provocative question: How does this relate to the financial market crisis? He put it in the question: Can you explain to me what the extension of the long-term insurance scheme has to do with the financial markets? Of course nothing. We know that too. But not only to Mr Stadler's address, but to the address of all colleagues here in the house, who are not covered by the old reference system, who chose a pension in 1997 to which they are paying: As a general rule, all of these colleagues in their group were quite obvious, but they were involved in all decisions on driving young people to private capital markets and private insurance. These colleagues, who are sitting in all the political groups here, know quite well that pension pensions are an extremely uncertain instrument for pensions not only in times of extreme financial crisis, just as we are experiencing them here, but also in more normal times. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we in this House only discuss care provision on the example of this care package, which we decide here today, in the form of an increase in the care allowance, if we do not continue to think about how a care financing for the future is organized, if only the call for care of Klubobmann Schüsel – or was it Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer? – if, after privatising a few businesses, we have a bit of a “ferment” to finance the care fund, I wonder if we are on the right track. I think no, with privatization nothing sustainable has been created to finance – I'm sorry – even if the privatisation of a large company or the partial privatisation of the AUA would rinsulate some money into the state funds in the short term, but we did not secure the future of care. This requires other instruments, such as a property tax, to organize care for the future and sustainable through a fund. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not think it is a coincidence, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, that we are discussing the whole campaign neither about the future of care nor the future of pensions, in the sense of the future, nor about the future of health care. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: We already!]] I can remember, however, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel – it was a contribution from you, in plenary session of 9. July, he rang all the alarm bells at me, because I knew, of course, what this game should do – that you said in this House in the light of the debate on health insurance – and I do not think it a coincidence that you have formulated it in this way –: “Why don’t we trust something more about choices? Why don’t we not trust the insured person that he can choose between different models, that the basic safety for everyone is very likely to be there, but that one can also differentiate a little in terms of offers, risk protection, better performance et cetera?” [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Yes!]] “These are things that would be very interesting in view of the situation of our excellent health system.” – Quote, Wolfgang Schüssel. That's interesting. Interesting. [[Abg. Hornek: That's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Thank you!]] – But not because I want to go this way, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, but because you have left a consensus between the parties since the year 2000. At that time, the Freedom Party said – that was under the rule of Schüssel –: We are actually against compulsory insurance!, and then a discussion process was organized, which has come to the conclusion that, among all the alternatives in question, compulsory insurance via public social security is the best way. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Do you allow an intermediate call?]] You, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, are the first of the larger parties to leave this consensus between the parties, namely that in Austria we are going to have a social health system – with the possibility that it should be extended but not restricted – that we should restrict the multi-class medicine that exists – where there is the same benefit for all, regardless of gender, income and professional position. This is a future for which we want to fight for Greens, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, because it is worth fighting for it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Do you allow an intermediate call?]] We Greens are not for a health system – I know you can discuss it differently – in which the competition between the insurances, whether they are all public insurances or whether there may even be some private insurances and a piece of cakes, is crucial. For such a system in the health field, we cannot have Greens, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: You have misunderstanded that! We want you to open it within the system!]] [[Call the SPÖ:No onions!]] Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel is trying to explain to me that he wants to be opened within the system. I think that's what I'm doing – with confidence, Mr. Klubobmann's bowl! – a snap idea: The oberösterreichische Landeskrankenkasse competes against the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse for the insured in Carinthia. - How's that supposed to work, please? All then build up mutual bases and advertise for customers. That can't work! I can tell you that, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I remember something else, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, and I have come to the heart of this, with regard to care, health care and the pension system: In 2004 – and this event will remain unforgettable to me, it has so to speak burned into my “hard disk” – there was a committee in which the pension reform was discussed, and experts from all parties were invited to this committee. There was an exciting debate. However, I was inexplicably told why the ÖVP had just invited a private insurance representative to discuss the future of our social pension system. And I found it very interesting what the private insurance representative has said to the valuable Committee and the other experts. This representative threw a "tort graph" at the wall as part of a PowerPoint presentation – that was a perfect presentation; all the other experts did not present as perfectly as this insurance expert, he already knew, he had to win in the Committee – and on this graphic he was shown what the very large area of social pension insurance in Austria has in revenue or expenditure, those billions – and that is not a few billion – that are spent on social pension insurance. I found it very refreshing, but at the same time, in connection with a pension reduction model, of course, very cynical that he said: We want a nice piece of this big cake! That was also the result of the pension reform: the possibility that was created for the second and for the third pillar, says: for private insurance companies, for a nice piece of this cake, of these public funds in the rings to cut off these public funds. That is exactly where we are now on the question raised by Mr Stadler at the outset: What does a long-term insured scheme have to do with the financial market crisis? – Yes, of course, very much, because the financial market situation, because the political constitution of the respective countries, because the circumstances, whether there is a public pension, health and care system, are decisive, whether these funds finance care, health and pension as public services or whether these funds are speculated in the capital markets.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12982	Your legal speaking time has expired. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12997	Madam President, I am tabling the following amendment:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13051	The amendment just read is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore part of the negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13111	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13133	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that Mr Öllinger has now seen which areas he can cover in social policy and which areas he can speak about. Now we are at the agenda item “Federal Care Money Act”, which is a very essential and important area for more than 400,000 people in our country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, Where's Vice Chancellor Molterer? In Sunday's speeches, he speaks again and again about the importance of caring for people and caring for the elderly. The biggest increase in the care allowance since the introduction of the care allowance is not the subject of ÖVP – and the vice chancellor shines by absence! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this is very bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: The money is already being made available!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Your excitement, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, can lead you into discussions with people. It is important to us Social Democrats that we continue what people discuss with us. We are trying to pass on the issues that move people. You of the ÖVP, on the other hand, always want to pass on your own and your own topics, and that is very bad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eßl: We have the better proposals!]] In order to clarify the previous item on the agenda, I would like to say first of all that the SPÖ, the Social Democratic Party of Austria, is, of course, for a financial transaction tax. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we cannot accede to requests that are not in order in practice. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We are in favour of the need for a policy that is hand-made and that is in order for the people of our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second item on the agenda today is a very important point for more than 400 000 people in our country and their families: the biggest increase in care money since its introduction 15 years ago. There are 4 per cent of care fees 1 and 2 to be paid at care levels 3, 4 and 5 are 5 per cent higher, and in care payments levels 6 and 7 there are plus 6 per cent. In addition, there is an important addition: Disabled children and adolescents receive supplements in the care allowance. This makes care more difficult for disabled children and adolescents and also for people with dementia. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months, it has become apparent that in the federal states, the rulings have been abolished. This is a very important point when it comes to families not having to pay when they have their older family members in stationary facilities. We look forward to the fact that there are long-term, human offers in the care sector that enable better compatibility of work, family and care. In this direction, we also want to continue working. The care care care care is another step in the direction that families can better agree that they care for and care for their families. The active support of the families is a huge concern for us. [[Abg. Hörl: We too!]] It is the responsibility of the state to assist the families. It is also the responsibility of the state to ensure that older people come out of social assistance towards proper support and insurance, as care is a solidarity task of society. We want additional money for the care sector so that we can make good offers for the people in Austria in the future. It is important that care is manageable, quality and well compatible with family, profession and family members. Social democracy stands for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13255	Next, I give to Mr Deputies Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13276	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I always hear the fairy tale of an increase in the care money, ladies and gentlemen. Where is the care allowance increased? Is it not true that the care money has lost 20 percent of its value since its introduction? [[Abg. Oillingers: In care level 1 more!]] Yes, at care level 1 even more. – But you’re here today and you’re saying: We bear social responsibility and increase the care money! This 5 percent adjustment still means, ladies and gentlemen, that the care allowance is worth 15 percent less than at the time of its introduction. So: Where is there an increase in the care allowance? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is that all the requests we have submitted by the FPÖ so far to make an adjustment in the amount of care money have been rejected by you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. I don't understand: We would today have a parliamentary majority to make an adjustment to the value of the care allowance. Now my question to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Do you want to benefit this parliamentary majority for the people in need of care in Austria, or will you, together with the ÖVP, vote in favour of taking 15 percent of value losses in the future in the care money? I am going to take the example, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and I will make a request on this, and I am very excited about how the SPÖ will vote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Mr Commissioner, please say it louder so that I can understand you. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You haven't done anything in your time!]] I didn't do anything in my time? – Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I will tell you something: This federal government, which we had over the last two years, was the worst that Austria ever had! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This Federal Government, chaired by a Alfred Gusenbauer, with the help of a Vice-Cancellor Molterer, has broken all the elections you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, have made. I understand that you are extremely and dissatisfied, that's why you saw down your own Federal Chancellor, but I don't think you'll do better after the election. You know why? – Mr Faymann said that it would always be the responsibility of those responsible. He apparently assumes that in a federal government under him as Chancellor and with a vice chancellor Pröll – at Molterer you can already say: “Dead man walking” – another style will rule. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember a press conference by Gusenbauer and Faymann, where Minister Faymann said he was strengthening the back of Gusenbauer. Gusenbauer said: Of course I will be top candidates at the next National Council election! Three days later everything was different. The first man who put the knife in his back was Faymann as a "gross" of internal policy, ladies and gentlemen. It was Faymann! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: ( towards SPÖ) The truth hurts!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: This is a Kasperl Theater!]] And you're the crocodile in the Kasperl Theatre, I suppose. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, was your election promise before the last National Council election. It is the last opportunity today to have the last sitting in this legislative period, where you can implement this election promise. I am eager to see if you will vote against or vote for your own election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, Vienna has often been quoted in terms of how it stands in Vienna with social achievements. Let us take a look at the report of the Federal Court of Auditors in this regard! Every fourth care allowance in Vienna lasts more than six months. – ‘Bravo’! Much of the claimants die before receiving the care allowance. [[Abg. Strache: That's a naughtiness!]] I find it particularly perfide, ladies and gentlemen, that even disabled children in need of care are not visited by the doctor at home, but must come to the doctor to be consulted. [[Abg. Riepl: It's quite different!]] That's what the federal court report says. And no one would assume to the Federal Accounting Court that he's lying. [[Abg. Riepl: In practice, this is not so!]] That is exactly how it is in the report of the Federal Audit Court! That's what I'm asking myself: Why not change this in the “social” Vienna? That would be really necessary, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Riepl.]] I also wonder why in this Federal Government, under a “social” Chancellor, it was not possible to provide a real pension scheme for those 400 000 people who care for their families at home. 400,000 members care for their parents or their children at home, change their diapers, put a catheter, make associations, wipe out broken things – but they don't have pension insurance! Why is this not possible, where is your social manuscript, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With the model that we decide today, those children again have a disadvantage that is not difficult or multiplely disabled; you know that very well. There is no talk about this today. A child with a lighter disability is not taken into account here again. That's why it was our proposal to shape the law of law of the state of Vorarlberg. But you ignore this quite simply and quite cold, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! One more thing: You have not managed to solve the care problem in Austria – unfortunately! – and I do not believe that you will do it with the planned red and black government after this election, because now you would have had the opportunity to solve the real big problems of our country with a constitutional majority. I can guarantee you that after this election you will no longer have a constitutional majority, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13488	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13546	Next, I give the floor to Mr Dr. Huainigg. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13567	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! I am pleased that we are today deciding on a care package which contains very important points, such as the development of 24-hour support, a better classification of disabled children, which solves a major problem in the past, namely that children have been classified after their age and not according to their degree of disability. This provision is hereby repealed and the situation for disabled children is improved. All in all, these are very important steps that are now being taken. But I am surprised that this care package is part of Werner's five-point programme. Faymann is not available because it was agreed in August between Minister Bartenstein and Minister Buchinger that this care package will be decided in this form today and will come today. I just don't understand the fact that you're making an election campaign, campaign ammunition. This is a polemic that should not be carried out on the back of disabled people. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] To my previous speakers: The speaker of the Greens, Mr Oellinger, said that a general increase would be better than a differentiated one. I don't think so, and it was our demand, it was also the demand of Minister Molterer that there be a differentiated increase, and I tell you why: Especially in the higher care levels, in the care levels 6 and 7, especially among the people who are more severely disabled, it is about life-sensitive questions whether you have to live in a home or at home. And this is possible by increasing the higher care levels differentiatedly more than the lower care levels – an important step. What surprised me very much was that Mr Lapp said that the SPÖ only agreed to hand-made laws. I do not see that right now, because there will be a lot of things decided here, which is very immature. In contrast to many decisions taken today, the care package has gone through a democratic process. There has been a review process, there have been expert opinions that have been heard, and so this package has developed in a very good process and matured accordingly. The VAT reduction does not seem to me to be that. The care package, on the other hand, is objectively safe, meets those affected, is sustainable and socially just. If you only look at what you could do in the care sector with these €1.3 billion, which will cost the VAT reduction, then that's huge: One could decide to spend fourteen times today’s care package – fourteen times as much, fourteen times as much – or you could even almost double the entire care allowance, increase it by 100 percent. So I don't understand the valuation. Today is the last day of my colleague, Mr Theresia Haidlmayr, the spokesperson of the Greens, here in the National Council, and I would like to take this opportunity to say good-bye to her. She was, I would like to say, a very contentious colleague, but she was very committed and partly fully committed to her concerns. [[General condolences.]] You'll remember us, Resi! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13628	The next speaker was Mrs Mandak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13649	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, Franz-Joseph, for these sweet words to the Theresia. It is almost a bit difficult for me to speak now, because your words also show that beyond these many disputes that are being transferred, there is also a lot of appreciation and profound appreciation in this House. I like it when it comes over. [[It was in favour of Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as members of the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless, I have to criticize the increase in the care allowance, as it now stands in the room. My colleague Karl Ollinger has already pointed out the uneven distribution of the increase. At the beginning, when the care allowance was introduced – that was 1983; 1993, yes, thank you – one has gone a good way and in 1994 and 1995 has actually increased it always: by 2.5 percent and by 2.8 percent. [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: 93!]] And then there was a huge ten-year span – ten years in which this care allowance was not increased. This was a time period in which SPÖ and ÖVP had government responsibility and did not make this increase. That is, in these ten years the care money was raised by no schilling, no cent, and all those who need care, support and care could spend less and less over the years because of the money they owe. Therefore, the criticism is that the care allowance must be increased equally for all stages, completely because all of them were equally affected by their depreciation. If Franz-Joseph Huainigg now says that it is to be justified in so far as the high levels are increased, then I can only answer him: Then, please do the up-to-top care allowance that our colleague Theresia Haidlmayr has been demanding for years and again and again, so that there is a possibility for all those who have a very high care and care needs, so that these people can really be promoted according to their careworthiness and get the money they need! Why Decline You've been making this call all the time, haven't you? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When we talk about the care allowance, I think it often makes the impression that the care allowance is a possibility to cover the actual costs. – That is not true, and I hope you know that as well as we do. The care money allows to cover approximately €2 to €4.50 per hour from the needs you actually have. That means that people still have a lion share that they have to finance themselves anyway. And the less the care money now, the harder it has become. This is one of our major criticisms of this government: In recent years, she has always been concerned only with the round-the-clock care. This round-the-clock service – I've copied it out to you – affects 5 percent of all people who need support and support. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] 5 percent! Over 95 percent of people, about this large share you haven't talked about in all these years. They fought for the round-the-clock care, and all the others stayed on the track! That's what I'm making a huge accusation to you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A round-the-clock care – this also needs to be clarified – most people cannot afford, despite your promotion. Despite your promotion, you need some €1,000 per month in addition to this round-the-clock care. And, you know, 1 000 €, that's as much as the average pension in Austria is. That is, if about half of the pensioners were to afford the round-the-clock care, then they would not be left alive a cent a month. And that can, please, not be your answer to the problems people have when they are old and need care! That can't be true! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] – No, Mrs Lap, you cannot agree! What we urgently need is a right to care and care and support in old age. There must no longer be a personal risk: If I'm lucky, I'm not going to need care, it's going to cut, and I fall from the chair, and I'm dead; and if I'm wrong and in need of care at 70, 85, then every month incessantly enter my savings little money, and that goes so far that the home that you have is gone. That cannot be your perspective for people of old age! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need an old-age care, which is as secure as the health care currently, where we have a legal claim and where it is perfectly clear: It is all our risk whether a particular person is in need of care or not, and we all contribute to it. And most will have to contribute to those who have a high wealth, because their assets will be taxed higher to pay these very, very important benefits in the future. We will have a million people over 80 years in Austria in 2050. It's high time to make a comprehensive concept here and not just to make little mosaic stones around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13729	The next item is the statement by the Government Bank from the Minister for Social Affairs. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13750	Thank you very much, Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to refer to the debate on the previous point, on tax and financial policy, in which many speakers pointed out what we should or could not afford to do, to establish a link to what Social Minister Hesoun said in 1993 when he developed the Federal Care Money Act on his initiative. He said, ladies and gentlemen, “Austria is not poor enough not to be able to afford care.” I think this also applies to the improvement of the care funds you will decide here in Parliament today. With the reorganisation of the right of care in 1993 the last major supply gap in the social security network in Austria was closed, impressively closed. At the time, Austria was one of the first countries to provide care on a legal basis, with a high amount of money to those concerned. Many countries in Europe have since followed the example of Austria. It is correct – it has been pointed out by some previous speakers – that since then the elan of governments has been somewhat paralyzed to improve the right to care and the care situation. In fact, only in 1994 and 1995, care money was increased – by less than 3 percent – for ten years; in 2005 it was increased by 2 percent; and after 20 months of its government activity, this Federal Government, which is now leaving office, has decided to increase an average of 5 percent, aged between 4 and 6 percent, in the Council of Ministers, and is now proposing this to you for decision-making. There has been little in-depth reform in the care system in 1993 until now. This has gone so far as to deny two years ago in the election campaign that there would be problems in the care sector, and it has been looked away from this major problem of 24-hour care and care, where tens of thousands of Austrians have been driven into illegality. The new Federal Government, which now divorces, has accepted this problem and, as a first step, has improved the legal status of caretakers. We must not forget that almost 80 percent of the care services are provided by their families for care and caregivers. And we have – that should be a previous speaker, Mr. Ing. Hofer, who criticized it, escaped – with 1. July 2007, in a social law amendment law, asserted that caregivers are free of charge from the care level 5 of their relatives – very much appreciated Mr. Ing. Hofer, free! – in the pension insurance can be self-insurance or further insurance. This already applies to more than 1 000 Austrians. Say it again, for there are thousands more who can take advantage of this! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the area of 24-hour care, with a lot of hangings and squeezings, but ultimately a result has been achieved that makes possible a reliable, quality-proof legalization – a model of which so far more than 13 000 people have already made use in Austria. Thus, in 13 000 cases, care and fear have been taken of people who have been cared for – perhaps once a check comes – but above all 13 000 employees, whether self-employed or self-employed – are largely self-employed, have been included in the social protection system in Austria. With 1. November this year, support for this area of 24-hour care is significantly increased: from € 225 for two caregivers to € 550 for self-employed care, with the self-employed care of €800 to €1 100. The most successful legislative action in the history of Austria was launched by this Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that, after discussions with the countries, it has succeeded in eliminating in the federal states of Tyrol, Styria and Burgenland, on their regional initiatives there, but also involved in a discussion relationship with federal policy, the children's, and partly even family rule over the next few months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With the care allowance law, the Today, you have voted here, not only are you taking into account these 5 percent in the care and care at home and improving it, but 100 percent of care providers in Austria. This novel is the greatest improvement in the right to care and the financial situation of people in need since the introduction of the care allowance in 1993. It will move a total volume of about € 140 million. In particular, the improvement in care payments by 4, 5 and 6 percent. Yes, that was a good compromise – and I am in favour – in the negotiations between what I have sought, namely a linear increase of 5% for all care benefits, following a recommendation from a working group, and what the coalition partner has sought in fulfillment of the Government Agreement, namely, a differentiated increase. Now we have a slightly differentiated increase by one percentage point between the lowest and the highest level of care – a good improvement. Of course you can criticize everything, you can also demand: 10 percent, 20 percent, current valorizations. But, ladies and gentlemen, the 400 000 care professionals have little of the demands. However, you have much of every step of real implementation that you hope will succeed unanimously in this House today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The critics and critics of this concept seem to me a little bit like chickens who are playing, while others lay the eggs, my very much appreciated ladies and gentlemen! We lay good eggs, you lay good eggs with this improvement of the care allowance right. [[Abg. Steibl: Watchman lay down!]] I would also like to point out that the negotiations we had with Federal Minister Bartenstein were constructive and good negotiations, which could also be concluded quickly. I would like – and do not think so, Mr Minister’s colleague – that we would have been able to conduct these constructive negotiations in this form, even with other materials. I would also like to point out that since January of this year I have been giving massive support to this increase in the care allowance and was told by the coalition partner in May of this year, because we should wait for the evaluation of the care allowance in December 2008 before we start an increase. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! 400 000 Austrians have evaluated the amount of care allowance in recent years and say that it is too little. And that is why it is now being increased, and that is good, and I thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I could add to these important developments through many other areas – improved classification of people with dementia, improved classification of severely handicapped children and young people, improved opportunities for short-term care through a recast of the § 21a Bundespflegegeldgesetz. With these major improvements, there is certainly another social policy milestone, but still a number of tasks remain for the coming Federal Government and for the newly elected Parliament, in which couleur composition still exists. But I consider to this Federal Government that the problem of medium and long-term care insurance,...
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13807	Mr. Federal Minister, I have to interrupt you. - Please put the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13822	... a care fund has already been discussed. I hope and expect the forthcoming National Council to implement improvements for people in Austria at the same rate as we have done in these last 20 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13849	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:50]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Walter Murauer, colleagues in the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State, concerning the comparison of diletantic Eurofighters to damage to the Republic of Austria (4995/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13880	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 4995/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14350	I give Mr Murauer as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14371	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Minister of Defense of our Republic Norbert Darabos! [[Abg. Pepper: My God!]] I think you agree with me when I tell you that you are not exactly the bravest of all the ministers of defence we had in the Second Republic, but you are one who, when it gets tight, takes the flight. If we want to know something, need information, then the Minister of Defense is up and down. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You're here today, I'm happy about it. Mr Faymann has already left the field. [[Call the SPÖ:No! There!]] He stands on the other side, he has changed the pages; thank you for the note. [[Call the SPÖ:Molder! Molterer! Where's Molterer?]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Now I can come to speak to you, Mr. Federal Minister, and... [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where is the ÖVP? Where's the ÖVP?]] The ÖVP is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14447	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking for a little more peace! Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14468	Mr Federal Minister, with your courage, it is of course also a special commitment when it comes to burning up a committee of inquiry as a coalition partner immediately after the election during government formation. There you were brave and voted with the other parties immediately for the setting up of an investigation committee, there you took part. What did this committee of inquiry bring? – Well, Mr. Edlinger has received €5 million from Eurofighter GmbH and EADS for Rapid. 5 million € are not very little. Now we know that Mr. Zach has also collected; directly or indirectly, but he has co-cascased. An interesting facet: that, according to his leaflet, Mr Haimbuchner did not overturn this in the Committee of Inquiry. I'm sorry, you still have to do this in the leaflet, that you have been a good investigative committee member and that you will also follow Mr Zach accordingly. But to you, Minister of State! They are also brave enough when it comes to coloring, to bringing SPÖ close-ups to the central organization, to the central offices and to the top leadership of the federal army. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are you talking about the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Murauer?]] You're brave at the coloring, that's what you do without asking anyone without informing anyone. They also write out posts that do not necessarily have to be signed out. You've even been accused of illegal alerts. That's where you're brave. Great! If the military, the National Defence Committee, want Parliament to have more information from you, discuss with you what you plan to do with the state defense, which single entrances you plan, then you are brave enough and withdraw. They say: I'm not here, I'm not telling you! Of particular courage, of course. Your single entry when closing the comparison according to the motto: We do not want airlines for the safety of Austria, the Eurofighters must be ordered in all circumstances. So was the SPÖ announcement before the election. Interestingly, an EADS manager has meant that this is not a bad contract for EADS and Eurofighter GmbH. But then you left your bravery, Federal Minister Darabos. They took the first flight when the first used Eurofighter landed in the tent road. This is where you asked our President: Please, can I also drive to Montenegro so that I don't have to be there when the first plane comes? Just gone, then I'm not here, because I could be questioned about any comparisons or contracts. So you were gone with the President of the Federal Republic. [[Abg. May. Muttons: Are you jealous?]] I think it would be appropriate for a minister of defence to be a bit more courageous; a bit more courageous instead of taking the flight and being afraid. – Well, if I had made such a comparison, I would also be discouraged. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Your courage, Mr Darabos, has also left you when Parliament asked the Court of Auditors to check your comparison. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Which constituency do you come from?]] There was then a raw report, and the President has promised that this raw report will, of course, be made available to Parliament. We waited, then came the raw report – and who did not make it available? You, Mr. Darabos! Mr Darabos, you disavow Parliament, you say: It's not your business, you don't get the raw report, I'm going to pass the information on to "News". – Also a possibility of public relations or democratic understanding. When I look at the loud demands made by Klubobmann Cap, who is always calling for living democracy, I must say that this is not quite right, Mr Cap. Are you also my opinion? I feel that. Of course, “News” has received the positive presentation. I don't want to say that this is absolutely a deception, but deception is close to giving a newspaper, an illustrated particular information. Mr Federal Minister, Parliament has the right to obtain information from the Court of Auditors. If the President also promises that the Court of Auditors report will be presented, then that must be done. You can't just say: I don't do that! When the Court of Auditors meets, I will not be able to take the flight again. So, Minister of State, this is certainly not acceptable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References== September would have been the meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure – and once again you have taken the flight, although without the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, but in the private jet. What, ladies and gentlemen, does the flight to Kosovo cost with a private jet? You don't know, my Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, Mr Cap? - 10 000 €! 10 000 € tax money. The Federal Minister says: I do not come to the Committee on the Court of Auditors, I fly to Kosovo, where, of course, he visits the colleagues in operation there, and do not ask me the questions of Members who, of course, may be embarrassing then and when! Mr Co-Chairman Kogler of the Liberals, here he is, has meant that he would like to bring the Minister of Defence, if necessary, with the police. [[Rejoicing with SPÖ and Greens]] Is that right? [[Abg. Krainer: He's a greener! That is an actual correction: Mr Kogler is a greener!]] So so far. They are relatively knee-soft with the resurgence, but this is another chapter again. Unfortunately, Mr Darabos, your statements accompany a series of untruths that we simply have to question, which we cannot take note of. For example, your – supposedly – great savings in service and support, i.e. operating costs, service costs, do not exist! Since you, Minister Darabos, multiply over a few decades what could be saved if we had less – yes, until no planes! However, this has not been accepted by the Court of Auditors, but has said that the €120 million savings given by you, Minister Darabos, have been included in your press report: € 120 million in savings for service and support contracts – only € 17 million are verifiable! After all, this is a difference of € 103 million! – But still on your homepage, Minister, it says that this is €120 million in savings! – This is the untruth of your reports. Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, only the fact that the Court of Auditors finds that you have not given any priority to military and security aspects in your comparison, but have not taken them into account, deserves already mistrust. Mr Darabos, you are Minister of Defense – and therefore also because you take military and security aspects of our country into account accordingly if you intend or take action against changes in contracts. For this very reason alone, Minister Darabos, you would be distrustful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And now, of course, the question is: When is your money saved, as you say? – You originally meant, Mr Darabos, that you would have achieved €374 million in savings. When is the money coming to the Ministry of Finance's account?- Oh, my God! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The Ministry of Defence's account does not come about because you, Minister Darabos, meant that you do not need this money in the Ministry of Defence. This is interesting, even for the members of the German army, that their minister – I do not know if there is another minister who says that I do not need money – that is, that the Minister of Defense says that this savings – which I do not doubt anyway – are not needed for defence expenditures, because there is no lack of procurement, not equipment for the cadres, nor for the groundmen and the militia. These, according to the Minister of Defence, would have enough equipment and equipment, so they do not need these saved millions. – I would like to congratulate you, Mr Minister, on this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now some details, ladies and gentlemen, about this “glory” agreement. The government of Schüssel, together with the Freedom Party, has chosen objectively, according to a code of conduct, according to the target and must criteria. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of SPÖ]] That's for all those who know about this matter. You don't know, I know, but that doesn't matter. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I hope, however, that there is one or the other in the Socialist Group, who knows each other. In any case: The result of 33 experts was noted, and 18 Eurofighters – Typhoon, tranche 2, block 8 – were ordered. That was the result of the Commission. These aircraft were ordered – with the addition that when aircraft are delivered from tranche 1, these are then retrofitted to tranche 2. But that might be too complicated for one or another here in detail. These typhoons are, at least, equipped with the latest technology, as well as one – and the ladies and gentlemen, is very important – self-protection programme for the pilots; something that you, Minister of Defense, Darabos, have then ordered, because that does not require the pilots! – Therefore: More uncertainty for the pilots according to your agreement, after your appointment, Mr. Federal Minister! Target recording and night flight suitability, which was included in the order. But you, Federal Minister Darabos, have also cancelled this, because you say: We don't need a target, what do you want!? – In your opinion, an aircraft should fly aimlessly – just like you! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In the view of the Minister of Defense Darabos, these planes do not need to be able to fly at night, because one does not need such a thing for a car either; they should only fly a day. And, according to the Minister of Defense, there is no need for self-protection equipment for the pilots; they should be careful where they fly! – Mr Darabos, such a comparison is rejected! Such a thing is really looking for the same! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, on the side of the Schüssel government, a contract was concluded in favour of the security of all: in favour of pilots, in favour of the safety of Austrians. Your comparison, Mr Darabos, when I read the Court of Auditors' report, and we have also announced this to you by the ÖVP, is not only a security policy but also a financial and economic disaster! The Court of Auditors is directly criticising this in its report. – Mr Faymann, you meant that Darabos would correct it; he would comment on it. So far, this has not been done by the Minister of Defence, but I hope he will still do so today. You, Mr Faymann, have announced that Darabos will correct this criticism of the Court of Auditors. – Today is an opportunity; Federal Minister Darabos, we're waiting. How, Federal Minister Darabos, does your “great” comparison now look like? – You ordered 15 instead of 18 planes. And no military approach to that! The military didn't teach you, even though you claimed it. The military are dementing this. – So again an untruth of you! And, Minister Darabos, with the desired change in the contract, you have taken up an increased piece price – originally € 109 million – of € 114 million, as well as planes of tranche 1, block 5 – instead of aircrafts of the improved tranche 2, block 8. So, not the better, but the more original, at least those who have less equipment and are already needed. You, Minister Darabos, have always told us that you had ordered only six aircraft used; the others would all be new, if they were the first generator. – The Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, says something else: 13 of 15 planes are needed, have used elements. – So what is it, Minister: Does the Court of Auditors say something wrong – or did you, Minister Darabos, say the untruth again? The reductions in performance have already been mentioned. Now perhaps another assessment, because one or the other might say: Well, those of the ÖVP have ordered these planes; but now they are sufficient; they should only fly during the day, even if there is no pilot safety, and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Do you know what the magazine “The Officer, ” the independent journal of the Officers Society, says? – “The Darabos deal: less quantity, less quality” – and a higher cost. “Darabos” – I quote here – “has not even done the right thing for one’s own ministry and has not advised experts from either the financial or the economic sector. National Council – we are used to this by you anyway – “the National Defence Committee” – which, of course, would have jurisdiction – “or the National Security Council were neither included. There was no commission from experts and no duty booklet...” – and so on and so on. Mr. Darabos, that is what those who are experts say, the officers of the federal army, is that magazine published by the independent officer society. For the formulation “almost new” and “logistically equivalent”. – No one – you, Federal Minister, will not be able to say it; but I am waiting for your answer – the Court of Auditors too could not understand it, because in reality this is not to be defined: “almost new”. What does “almost new ” mean? I am reminding you of a car purchase in this context. If today a car vendor says “nearly new”, then you can actually go, because there is something wrong with the car. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That reminds me: You, Mr Darabos, are also “almost there”, but “ too little” there; and especially when it comes to something, if something is of particular importance, you are not there – and yet “almost there”. This comparison is pressing in the right direction. You, Federal Minister Darabos, have said the untruth with regard to the recovery of the General Staff; They have said the untruth with regard to the involvement of the Minister of Finance or the Financial Procuratorship. – So untruths lead you to step and step! And the counter-businesses are also affected by you. If you say, Mr Faymann, from this bank today: Workplace, workplace, job, then send this message to your Minister Darabos, who says: 500 million € in losses in the counter-businesses, that doesn't matter, we take it into account, I didn't cooperate in the comparison, that's 3 000 jobs, it doesn't matter either! – I would advise you: In the future, talk to the SPÖ so that it works better with the jobs! Ladies and gentlemen, a voice for the ÖVP – and I also say this to the people who are present today and listen to it – is a voice for the security of our country, it is also a voice for the Austrian federal army. Finally, Mr Darabos, Minister for Defence: Versions You're this government, especially the Austrian federal army!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14687	In response to the question, the Minister of State for Defence Mag. Darabos. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. – Mr Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14708	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The Zach knew what he had to do!]] One thing, Mr Murauer: It may have been your last speech in Parliament, but I say to you: [[Call the ÖVP: You too!]] You can only claim under the protection of immunity that I have said the untruth. [[Call the ÖVP:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I am going to blame you for everything, you can always discuss negotiations, but I have never said the untruth in my life, and not at all, as far as the Eurofighter question is concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Many calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: This is the first untruth!]] The inventions you have given here from this pult are not worthy of a Christian-social attitude; I also say quite openly to you. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And I'll tell you four points at the beginning: First: Mr Murauer, Mr Schüssel, I have not ordered the Eurofighter, and you have ordered it. And: You have concluded the worst Treaty of the Second Republic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, it was impossible to get out of this treaty. I have tried; I have negotiated a savings for the Republic of Austria. I'll explain this saving to you, too. [[Call the ÖVP:Did you not read the Court of Auditors report?]] It is not me as a Social Democratic Minister, but Professor Heinz Mayer, who is very recognized, speaks of Wahnwitz in the Treaty you have concluded. This contract is so thick, but it is only made up of pieces and is so badly concluded that it is a disfavor for the Republic, as Professor Mayer says – and I will prove it to you after all. [[the speaker makes a corresponding hand movement]] Secondly, Saving potential. Ladies and gentlemen, this is again about truth and untruth. [[Abg. Murauer: That's right! So tell the truth!]] I'm telling the truth. I'll show you the comparison with Eurofighter. [[The speaker holds an enlarged copy of a document.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Is that all?]] There is the signature of Mr. Aloysius Rauen – yes, that is embarrassing to you, I know – and there is the signature of the Federal Minister for Defence Norbert Darabos. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Four lines are these!]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Not us, you!]] And there it says: Overall, a total reduction of at least € 370 million is due to the points. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Is there a second page too?]] And if you're already in the car comparison: If you conclude a contract with a car seller, I assume that this contract also holds, I hope for you as a buyer. – €370 million savings in the contract clearly defined. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Turn around! Turn around!]] Third point: By reducing the number to 15, by determining the level of construction – that is funny, your arguments that you deliver there, of course, the viewers cannot understand, because no one knows what tranche 1, tranche 2, block 5, block 8 – by the point of comparison that I have achieved we will save another € 730 million in 30 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: What about retrofitting?]] This is € 1 billion in total for the Republic of Austria, which we can spend on very important projects. You can understand this at any time: 1 billion € for the Republic of Austria. [[Call the ÖVP:Did you not read the Court of Auditors report?]] Fourth point: Counter-businesses. You've been talking about the counter-businesses. I can still remember dark – it's very hard to remember, because that was once black and blue, then black and black-coloured – that the government wanted to order 30 Eurofighters at the beginning. I think it was still before Herbert Scheibner. Under Herbert Scheibner, he was then reduced to 24 Eurofighters and later to 18 Eurofighters. - Please, where are the counter-businesses? That's €840 million if you're going to charge that and compare apples to pears that you lost by reducing the number of pieces. [[Abg. Murauer: No, no, no! That's not high, that's the real value!]] That is to say, following your logic, we would have to buy 100 Eurofighters, then we would have a volume in the counter-businesses that would go up. That's an account that can't go on. That's an account that's completely taken out of the air. I saved the taxpayer €370 million, and you can understand that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: This is what the Waberl Aunt believes!]] [[Abg. Hornek: The Court of Auditors does not believe this, and the voters do not believe it!]] Dear colleagues from ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ, you will find these 250 million cash in the account between October 2008 and March 2009. And please show me a minister – I don't know, I'm a historian – in the Second Republic, which has recovered €250 million from the Republic of Austria, which comes to the account of the Minister of Finance! We should consider what we do with this €250 million cash. [[Abg. Murauer: After you don't need it!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What are you a defense minister?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Hornek: This is a dream interpretation you are doing!]] That's not a dream interpretation, it's so fixed in the contract! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Yeah, you don't like that, I'm clear, but it's just like that! - Are we making a bet? [[Abg. Hornek: I'll make a bet with you!]] I like to make a bet; They determine the bet: The contract is clearly defined, and between September 2008 and March 2009 the cash cash returns to the account of the Republic of Austria. You can rely on that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Make bets from the government bank! Unimaginable! That has not yet been done in history!]] For military planning. If someone didn't use military planning, it was the previous government. I've gotten rid of this. There was no military planning in the reduction from 24 to 18. When I reduced from 18 to 15 – because of course I expected your accusations – there have been very clear military plans. They were also discussed in the National Security Council; they were also discussed in the National Defence Committee. [[Abg. Murauer: We never got that on our face!]] Of course you got it, I gave you this oral reference. And you can rely that 15 Eurofighters can do the work of 12 F-5, which we had leased from Switzerland, an old plane, loosely. We have the most modern device. [[Abg. Murauer: Separate in quantity and quality!]] Just, your planning was in a completely different direction. Their planning was geared towards sending foreign operations with Eurofighters. That's not what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can remember that one has also said that these Eurofighters are financed by an economic platform, Mr. Schüssel. [[Abg. Murauer: That's right! Business platform is called counter-businesses!]] I'm still waiting for where this economic platform is. On the questions. I would like to answer the very specific questions you have asked. [[Abg. Murauer: That will be good too!]] The 1st. Question is: Where are the differences between the savings which I have brought together and the Court of Auditors' calculations? I have a legally valid contract that I have shown you. You only need to read this Court of Auditors report carefully. [[Abg. Murauer: You didn't show us that!]] The Court of Auditors does not criticise the fact that there are no €370 million savings. The Court of Auditors only says that the support agreements are still being renegotiated. And that is what I think is right, because the support agreements depend, of course, on the time when they enter into force. [[Abg. Murauer: After when?]] But no matter what contract we negotiate, from each contract we get a minimum of € 4 million per year, which results in this € 120 million. This means we are at € 370 million. [[Abg. Murauer: And where is the comparison? Don't show it here!]] The 2nd. Question concerns the criticism of the Court of Auditors. This isn't a line of defense, as you claim. We have saved taxpayers over €1 billion of costs when fully ensuring airspace surveillance in Austria. [[Call the ÖVP:Where? Where? Where?]] This figure is based on the results that experts have also calculated in the home. [[Abg. Murauer: Which experts?]] The experts of the Austrian federal government. I've already done this: 730 million over the next 30 years; 370 million by the comparison I have just presented to you. [[Abg. Murauer: The experts are still looking at us!]] Questions 3 and 7: That is also the point. This is always an invention of the ÖVP, that they say these planes have now become more expensive. That's not true. I'm not a comparison here. In my comparison, there are savings of € 83 million per Eurofighter – in the reduction of 24 to 18 pieces under the government bowl, there were only 70 million. So with my comparison, I'm 13 million € per Eurofighter better. I believe that this comparison keeps every review. [[Abg. Murauer: We will calculate that!]] – You can calculate this. The tranche 1 is sufficient for our airspace monitoring. It is the most modern aircraft of the fourth generation. It will be able to complete the tasks around the clock 365 days a year. We don't need a warbomber of the tranche 2! You ordered the luxury, we ordered an airspace surveillance vehicle. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you – and this is a very funny debate – address the FLIR and the DASS systems, do you really know what that is? [[Abg. Murauer: Just as good as you anyway!]] I'm not so sure. [[Abg. Murauer: But I'm sure!]] This is an infrared system that you only need if you're in combat. We can maintain airspace surveillance with our aircraft, with our normal system as well. Mr Platter has equipped six of 18 aircraft with this system. The question is: Why not the remaining 12 if that's so important? The DASS system is a system for protecting against the persecution of enemy fighters. Excuse me, however, that is not the task of airspace surveillance in Austria, I say quite openly to you – and therefore the cancellation. By the way, this does not even have the German Air Force, and the German Air Force is a bit on the way in other operations, for example in Afghanistan and so on, than the Austrian. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Question 4: I have presented my view of things to the National Security Council, even with PowerPoint presentation. [[Abg. Murauer: Not informed!]] I don't know if you were there. We have made the decisions on the basis of the military variants. It is also from my point of view – and to this I stand – that no Eurofighter is used for foreign use. On question 5, a very important question, the involvement of the Minister for Finance: In order to clarify my power of representation, I commissioned an opinion from Professor Heinz Mayer. [[Abg. Murauer: In retrospect or before?]] Before! Here is the result – I quote –: “1. In the external relationship of the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State alone, the task of bringing about the proposed change in the Treaty is to do so. 2. § 1 of the Empowerment Act (...) reasons the sole competence of the Federal Minister for Defence, the unclear understanding of the enforcement clause (...) does not restrict this competence, but requires consultations at all events. 3rd. In accordance with § 47(2) of the Federal Budget Act (BHG), the Federal Minister responsible for the implementation of an individual project has to establish agreement with the BMF on a planned recruitment or substantial modification of the project, provided that the agreement with the BMF had already been reached for the implementation of the project. That's for the ggstdl. The conclusion of a contract on the basis of the legal empowerment was without agreement with the BMF, which means that a change in the contract could and was allowed to be caused by the Federal Minister of State’s defence on its own.” – Quote. That is, we have a legal view here of an internationally renowned expert. And forgive me this sentence, it should not be insult, but to expel the devil with the Beelzebub, that would, I believe, not be a bad political strategy. It was known that the ÖVP was for the Eurofighter and I am against the Eurofighter, so I do not understand why I should have involved the ÖVP Partyobmann in these negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Question 14: The claim raised in this question was not contained in the proceedings initiated by my predecessor. The experts of my house see an economic advantage in the short-term possibility of change – in contrast to a 30-year flaw – because it allows further savings and approvals by international cooperation in the field of logistics. This is about the ISS contracts. Question 15: The comparison and the corresponding amendments to the Treaties were made on 24 March. ==References====External links== July legal effect. Questions 16 and 18: The experts of my home established the definitions “logistically identical”, “almost new” and the concrete acceptance conditions with Eurofighter. The specific delivery dates have been agreed in agreement with the Federal Ministry of Finance since December 2007. On question 19: In the old contracts, only six Eurofighters – I have already mentioned – each contained a DASS and FLIR system. All the expenses necessary for the operation had been deleted by my predecessor. The DASS and FLIR systems were therefore not applicable. By the way, DASS and FLIR are only needed for a fight under military threat that we do not have. For airspace surveillance at day and night, the Eurofighter is equipped with a high-quality radar and GPS systems. Question 20: No, because with the result of my comparison, the full assurance of airspace monitoring in Austria is guaranteed and taxpayers save over € 1 billion of costs over 30 years. On question 21, my consequences: None. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15369	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Amon. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15424	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Darabos, I have been a member of the National Defence Committee since 1994 and I must admit that I already had serious problems in your appointment, not even in one of the first requests for distrust which was against you here in the House. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Too long!]] I would also like to explain why. You, Mr Darabos, at the time refused to serve with the weapon for reasons of conscience. Before that I have great respect, that is not a question. I was also always an opponent of the so-called Conscience Examination Commission, because a conscience cannot be verified. It is in this case to make the reasons credible and to accept them. But it's actually unacceptable that someone who has refused the service with the weapon for conscience's reasons turns up and says: I'm going to be Minister of Defense and I'm in charge of armed unity! That is the real problem, Minister of State Darabos! [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and congratulations to representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, I note that you have no problem with this. But you should also take care of your team once, because if you talk to your soldiers, you will increasingly notice that you no longer have the force behind you. Mr. Minister of Defense, you've lost the force! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's where I join the statements of our interlocutor Walter Muraueran. Whenever it gets tight, always when it comes to something, press ahead with responsibility. Mr Federal Minister, you have tried here to throw nebula grenades and scatter them, which has become known for material arguments and for material criticism of this deal. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You don't hear anything! You need to talk to the micro. You don't hear anything!]] – Mr Dr. Cap, it is important that you listen, very important, because you hear good arguments! I can tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Darabos, you did not give us the opportunity to talk about this deal in the Court of Auditors' Committee because you were supposed to have to go to Kosovo for important reasons. I ask you: If the use in Kosovo is so important to you where Then last Friday, when the Austrian force was adopted in Kosovo? You weren't there either! The troop would have liked to hear a word of advocacy from you. That's where you pressed, Mr. Defence Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, it is incredible that a Federal Minister wants to make a bet from the government bank – I think it has never been in Parliament at all; you as historian should perhaps check it out – a bet that the deal he has made will hold. By the way, it consists of four lines, one such deal is really remarkable. This is an unprecedented scandal, Federal Minister Darabos, that we are taking bets from the government bank here! Yes, at what level we reached! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say to you, Mr Federal Minister, that we have discussed in detail and for a long time in the club whether we should make a motion for a distrust against you today. [[Call the SPÖ. Go!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Wow!]] [[Call the SPÖ: This is a shame!]] A ministerial lie against you, Minister Darabos, is still in the room anyway, because you have broken the budget law. It would be completely absurd if every minister could amend and change any contract without regard to the budget. Of course, there is agreement with the Ministry of Finance. Don't tell the untruth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you have said that you have never said the untruth at all – but two sentences further you have already done so. So much is your word to keep, Minister. However, I would also like to say to you, Mr Federal Minister, why we have decided not to file a motion of censure against you today – if you do so, you can bring in one; I cordially invite you to do so: because we consider this process to be not necessary a few days before the National Council election, because you, Minister Darabos, are going to withdraw two days after the National Council election anyway, because that is the usual way. [[Oh-noise at the SPÖ]] [[Rejoicing and condolences with the ÖVP]] And then the chief commander of the Austrian federal army is on the train, the Federal President. The President of the Federal Government will also have to consider whether he entrusts you with the continuation of the business, Mr Darabos, Federal Minister. [[Well, go! Call at the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: Here we are confident!]] I think it is really unfortunate, Federal Minister Darabos, that in the short time when you are now Minister of Defense, you have succeeded in damaging the entire confidence of the force in you, yes, to destroy it. Actually, you should draw the necessary consequences yourself. At least I'll invite you to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15600	Mr Prehauser. 7 minutes desired speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15621	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Amon, you don't want to believe that we were in a coalition. If you know the past, you understand the present situation. [[Complementary by members of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A real sentence! One of the wisest sentences of today!]] What you have given of yourself today actually contradicts the basic political consensus of the will to cooperate and accept coalitions that were desired by the voters. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest accusation is the refusal of military service. Mr Federal Minister, I can say - I also visit the force very often - that was the smallest point in discussions. In discussions with the Federal Army, the concern was actually expressed that, for example, under Black-Blue or BZÖ- Schwarz, the German army was thinned in a form, as was not the case in history before. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go, stop! Such a fool!]] At the same time, you were put on notice by Flyer, Federal Minister A. D. Scheibner, you know that. You wanted other planes, as we know, but you didn't get through. The German army is the sufferer, because now the funds are missing for further expansion. Mr Amon, there are several Federal Ministers who, for example, have not completed military service. I am thinking, for example, of Fassleven, which was a “white vintage, ” not a question. They also spoke of a weapon-leading ministry. – In the field of the Ministry of the Interior, I think, also armed, are led by police and gendarmen, as it was before. For example, Straster was also a civil servant. High regard for civilians. – If you have a character, you can also stand for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If one is appointed to offices, as Minister Darabos has proved, one can grow with the task, in the event of appropriate consultation and under the direction of a good chief of general staff. Edi Entacher, I can very much thank you for having managed to lead the soldiers in a way that they will see them again in the morning, together with our Federal Minister Darabos. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now a few words to my friend Walter Murauer. Walter, in fact, you're not making it easy for me today. Actually, I wanted to stroke you a little bit, because I know you're not going to belong to the next National Council. Cooperation was not that bad at first. However, the last two years have been more severe. You assured me several times, you just don't want to. I understand that. But in the future it should be different again. Your successor should learn from what can become of someone who wants the best for the federal army but is prevented from putting it into practice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are a few points that Walter Murauer has raised, which cannot be contradicted, even if this has to be taken away from his own concept. He has also been very concerned about mail chess, for example. Walter, I don't know what you're talking about, but I can tell you the following – just a very small example: In the Ministry of the Interior, for example, it even goes so far that entire communities are being disadvantaged because their mayor does not belong to the right party. I can quote an e-mail from the former Minister of the Interior Strasser: “I’ve already noticed this in cords that you must be color-blind. The bgm of coldenbach is spö-br. I don't think he's running as a federal council on the sp-list and in the community on the vp-list. So I may ask you to do a little more detailed research." An hour later the answer: Oh, I'm sorry. "Ass on my head!!” And the gendarmerie post came to the black community. – So much for the accusation of the poster, ladies and gentlemen. On the urgent issue today, ladies and gentlemen: This is nothing but a distraction maneuver – we have already seen it in the first place – because, of course, a urgent one would have been standing in the direction of feeling Mr Bartenstein's tooth and asking why, for example, he is not working in fuel prices and the population is suffering from a pressure that it can no longer cope with. He was saved by the fact that, in order to divert from his own shortcomings, a gunfire was opened to a minister who was very, very, very hard to do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the particularly interesting – and this should also be known by the spectators; we have already heard it in a fractional way today – is this: The pilot did not order Darabos, but the pilot ordered BZÖ-ÖVP or Blau-ÖVP. But what's much more important, my Ladies and gentlemen: We would also have had opportunity after the decision had been made to take Eurofighter. – Flus would have been cheaper at the time. Only one variant – a very peculiar financing variant – has given the Eurofighter advocacy. We will still hear from other speakers. I can only say that the decisive thing was, however, that in 2004 we could have already had the tranche 1 aircraft. The vanity of a Minister of Finance Grasser and the desire for a zero deficit to be borne by municipalities and countries... Today we are yelling at what the communities and countries have to suffer if we perhaps halve VAT. However, to bear the zero deficit has been taken into account in the countries and communities. And there the black-managed countries and communities of Bravo have said and are happy. However, it was actually a sphinx. There was no zero deficit in the form. However, in order to be able to attract us possibly a zero deficit vest, we have hired Swiss pilots, because the Eurofighter 1 tranche, which was sufficient for Austria – we now see that the EURO was well monitored –... We have said that no, not until 2007, and before 2006 no rate, so that it may not look like the zero deficit is not to be kept. We've done about 50 million old Swiss planes. ==References====External links== July, practically our airspace secured. And the state-of-the-art Eurofighter tranche 1 should not be able to achieve this in the future? One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. We want interception hunters, we want to control and secure our airspace. But we don't want to be pulled into ground-air battles. This is also very difficult to organise in Austria if we do not do what the EIA also imagines, namely to represent NATO in foreign operations. That's not what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15716	Mr Pilz has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15738	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! So far, politicians from ÖVP and SPÖ have spoken, which are still in a coalition, and many of them – up to the government coordinator and top Social Democratic candidates – are planning to continue together and say that quite openly. Now the ÖVP is bringing an urgent question against the SPÖ on the subject of Eurofighter. Slowly, I think, there are only a few people who understand what is actually happening. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The ÖVP is for the Eurofighters, the SPÖ is for the Eurofighters, both are together in a government, both of them are the Eurofighters. The ÖVP is only for tranche 2, the SPÖ for tranche 1, there is a tranche difference in Eurofighters between SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Call at the ÖVP: That's how the little Maxi introduces himself!]] And so in a sincere coalition, where you actually represent something common and only have a small tranche difference, there is a fight for devils to come out. That is why it makes sense to make this happen briefly with regard to history: Yes, it is right, at the beginning the SPÖ was against the Eurofighters and the ÖVP for the Eurofighters. - That's right. Under very strange conditions, the ÖVP has maintained that 24 Eurofighters are coming. Then a military-air space surveillance event is very relevant, namely a flood, and because of a flood one has decided, well clear, if now a flood was, we take only 18 Eurofighters instead. At the time, however, the ÖVP did not have the majority, it needed a second party to order Eurofighter. This second party then appointed the Minister of Defence, that was the FPÖ. The Freedom Party has also profiled itself as a very successful pro-Eurofighter party in the crucial phase. Then came the new government, under which you still remember German chancellor Gusenbauer. The posters and ads have read: “Social fighter instead of Eurofighter!” And after a few months, the social fighters got nozzles and steering weapons and suddenly flew in the Austrian airspace. What happened back then? And this is the only point I do not understand to this day, although Professor Mayer, who you are today concurringly quoting, together with other university professors at the time, and the leading contract law specialists of the Republic of Austria, has submitted an opinion to the Examining Committee that the exit from the Treaty would be not only possible but highly recommended. Why did you have another opinion behind the Committee's back to argue that you would have to fulfil the Treaty? [[Aha-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Why, although there was a majority in the National Council for the exit, did you not get out of the way, but went to the side of Eurofighter and EADS? And why did you agree to a so-called comparison, after which a used Eurofighter costs 4 percent more than a new Eurofighter? [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: Who says that? Where's that?]] Here you go, Mr Mag. Darabos, do not make purchases on behalf of and with funds from the Republic! [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have once experienced what that is like when Mag. Darabos plugs in the Republic's wallet and says: Now I'm going shopping, now I'm going to negotiate, now I'm going to show you what I can do! – And suddenly used aircraft are more expensive than new! [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: That's not true!]] Please give this National Council a “Never-More-Daraboss purchase guarantee”, then we have at least achieved something! The SPÖ has fallen by the end of the work of the Committee of Inquiry, but obviously it is not the only Eurofighter party. Now we read in the “profile” about strange Lakeside transfers to Carinthia, of which only the BZÖ summit candidate Dr. Haider knew something. What happened? [[Calls.]] What interests will be represented? Faith You really are saying that EADS and Eurofighters say that in the future the Austrian airspace is safe, we urgently need to pay to Dr. Transfer Haider for a bank project at Wörthersee? [[Abg. May. Darmann: Don’t believe everything the “Small Newspaper ” writes!]] What happened again? If we had known this at the time in the investigation committee, we could have asked the Dr. Haider quite questions. The whole thing – I don't want to use a lot of time for it – rounds off with what has become known in recent days, with the then top Liberal Forum. Any description of these operations is not sufficient, that is known. There was at least one first resignation. Let's save each other discussion. This is a picture of this Parliament, and I am not only wondering why parties from ÖVP via SPÖ via BZÖ to FPÖ and Liberal Forum are willing to be influenced by EADS and Eurofighter, but also what really happened. How can a single armaments firm exert such a decisive influence on Austrian procurement policy, on Austrian domestic policy and, finally, on the stifling of parliamentary control? What is possible in this Republic? What is the power of the arguments of the company EADS and Eurofighter GmbH? Do you perhaps find yourself in a letterbox company in London, over which more than €40 million of counter-business money has been paid to a Vienna arms dealer named Walter Schön, settlement by the company EBD, the company which was officially used by Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein to deal with the counter-businesses? Under the nose and under the eyes of Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein, there have been dubious cash flows of at least €40 million, through several letterbox companies – partly in London, partly in the Caribbean, partly in Austria. The Minister knows he has the documents. Why isn't he interested in it? What is going on in the Ministry of Economic Affairs – and not only in the Ministry of Defence? Why can EADS and Eurofighters, from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Economic Affairs in Austria, do everything that suits them and continue to prevail, even though all processes and all parliamentary and journalistic reconnaissances suggest finally to end this EADS-spuk in Austria? And last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the SPÖ: You have the right to compare Mr Mag. Darabos repeatedly emphasizes how necessary the Republic of Austria and a Federal Government – no matter how it is composed – would have needed these billions for education, for a new energy policy, for pension provision, for many others. We have, together with a majority, had the opportunity to recover this money for the Republic of Austria and for the people who pay these taxes and finance these budgets. You have given this opportunity easily. The biggest election promise – at least the most expensive election promise – was the SPÖ's commitment to withdraw from the Eurofighter Treaty. You broke that promise. You have deliberately renounced several billion euros, and you will also have to stand up to the citizens on the election day to ensure that one of the greatest opportunities to spend these taxes on the future of Austria has been missed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15861	Mr Haimbuchner has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: To the Rules of Procedure!]] Excuse me. For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15896	I would like to maintain at least the following: In the case of a speech by the ÖVP on its own ÖVP urgent, the Minister of Finance has always wanted to be involved in the operations to which the Minister of Defence has been addressed for budgetary reasons. I notice: Today we are dealing with an ÖVP-ergent, but there is no single member of the ÖVP on the government bank. [[Ironic calls at the SPÖ.]] I note that even today the Minister of Finance does not participate in this emergency, although he obviously has an interest in it. I therefore note that the Minister of Finance seems to be completely indifferent to these urgent members of the EIA and that he is also totally uninterested in the opinion of the Minister of Defence. We take note of this and clearly see it only as a theatre – and not as a serious concern of the ÖVP, as it suggests. That is really hard to criticize. Calls Now turn on the finance minister on the phone to finally get to the government bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15947	Mr Klubobmann spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15971	The urgent question is addressed to the Minister of Defence, and the Minister of Defence has expressly said – and repeated today – in the Council of Ministers that he does not need the agreement of the Minister of Finance. You need to discuss this whole story here. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Where is the Bartenstein? Where's the Molterer?]] Secondly, the Minister of Defence said in the Council of Ministers that his deal did not touch the counter-businesses – an untruth, by the way, because of course we lost 500 million euros in counter-actions. That is why this urgent matter is rightly addressed to the Minister for Defence, and he is right to speak and answer the Austrian Parliament, and we will discuss it with him. – This is our duty and our right.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16012	Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16036	I would just like to say in this debate that it is now clear to the spectators that the non-stop dispute between the two government parties is already taking place in the Rules of Procedure. – That’s something new again: The two government parties are already fighting from the bank. I just note that last time the entire SPÖ government team was missing, which Mr Faymann is almost never here at all today, and the Federal Chancellor is apologised, but we see him constantly in the newspapers as he moves through the Central Park, which is not exactly a respectful alternative to the presence here in Parliament. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer wasn't present for a second today, but I'm right, you did right to hide him from this election, because he would certainly only harm you if he occurred.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16078	Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, I rarely understand, but as I have said today: The Federal Chancellor is – like Mrs Foreign Minister – at the United Nations General Assembly in New York, where these are two important topics, namely the Security Council membership of Austria and the UN Millennium Goals. I can no longer see any further statements of speech on business, which is why Mr Dr. Haimbuchner is now speaking. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There was no one talking about business treatment either! Not all three!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16109	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I am also not quite clear whether these were really word messages for business treatment. I think that was not the case. But it is also a spectacle for the ladies and gentlemen, where you can see how it is after the 28th century. September will continue – exactly so! That is exactly how we will continue to argue, and nothing will develop positive for our home country. That's what we're seeing now. It does not matter whether or not the Ministers are present or not, because they have previously brought nothing together, they do not bring anything together now, and nothing can be learned from the speeches of the Ministers in a material way. – You should hold that at this point too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of this legislative period, the Eurofighter Investigation Committee was set up with the voice of the SPÖ, the Green Party and the Freedom Party. The task of this Committee of Inquiry was to examine the procurement process under the previous government. The results have shown that this was an important committee. I just want to remember the affair Wolf, German, Rumpold. But now we also see the consequences of the Liberal Forum, we know for the first time also the true background of Jörg Haider. It has obviously been threatened – with €5 million! Yeah, you have to be afraid of that. But, dear Mr Darmann, it was not the “Small Newspaper” – one should correct it, even for the media – it was the news magazine “profile”; “profile” brought this story first. But one thing is also interesting: Today, when we are dealing with a urgent question concerning the diletantic Eurofighter comparison, we have to say that it was already the process of procurement very diletantic, but really surprising, that during the Eurofighter investigation committee and after that there is an almost more diletant process, namely by the Federal Minister of State Defense. That really hits the barrel, ladies and gentlemen. It is not a contract, it is a comparison. Mr Federal Minister, if you present two signatures under a few lines with a little bit of media activity today, I wonder if this is the whole comparison you have completed. Is that the three or four lines you keep in the TV cameras here? What kind of comparison is that? – This is really a scandal. The Court of Auditors makes this very clear in its report: While detailed internal protocols were drawn up on the preliminary discussions in March/April 2007 and on the negotiations on the detailed agreement, the crucial ones were – please let this be broken down on the tongue! – Comparative negotiations of May/June 2007 with neither protocols nor other documents. I think that is really a scandal, ladies and gentlemen. There are no records of the comparison that has been completed over billion euros. And what does the Court of Auditors report say? – at risk of the agreed logistical equality of construction, no concrete agreement on the definition of the terms “almost new”, “nearly equivalent to construction”. – You have not made any agreements at all. There are no explanations for this. What does the Court of Auditors continue to say? – The negotiating position of the Federal Ministry of State Defense towards Eurofighter GmbH has been restricted by the comparison. – That’s what the Court of Auditors says. Therefore: How do you explain this to the citizen? How do you explain your savings? Today, we have very often stressed the word ‘untruth’ – Mr Amon has spoken of ‘untruth’ – and it is quite right that this term should be handled very carefully in this House in order to preserve the dignity of this House. Just, Minister of State, I would like to ask you – and please listen to me! – how you come to so many responses to my requests. ==References====External links== July 2007 – this interview should have been blessed by you –: In mid-May, there was almost a termination of negotiations with Eurofighter, remembering Darabos. “The jet manufacturer offered me a discount of 200 million euros, but without a reduction in the number.” Then he, Darabos, stood up from the negotiating table and went. As a result, he contacted SPD politicians to put pressure on roughs. I then made a request to you. According to “Kurier ” of 23. ==References====External links== There is an offer from Eurofighter GmbH on July 18, 2007, to deliver 18 Eurofighters more cheaply. One of my questions to She was: “When was the offer presented to you about savings in logistics and spare parts at the same quantity?” – Your answer was: ‘I don’t know about such an offer.’ – But you yourself have said in the “Kurier” that it has been offered a discount of €200 million. And then, says Darabos: “The jet manufacturer offered me a discount of 200 million euros, but without the reduction of the number. I got up from the negotiating table and went...!” Do you know what it really was about? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Well, listen! – In fact, it was about the fact that Federal Minister Darabos had to show some success, because we know the great election promise of the SPÖ: Social fighter instead of Eurofighter. They had to make some success on bending and breaking, and if it's a lot reduction. At all costs, you wanted it. What happened to it? – Now we have 15 Eurofighters, with 15 Eurofighters in principle cost us as much as 18 Eurofighters, and they are worse equipped. If you say, Mr Darabos, that you have made savings, you must explain this to me. I get less, I pay less: What kind of success is this, Mr Darabos, Minister of State? So you really shouldn't be sending you on a shopping tour, but I don't think that's going to be the case in the future. [[Abg. May. Worm: You bought it!]] – So we didn’t buy it, it bought the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, and we can’t believe that you can’t keep your election promises. But then comes another interesting story, Federal Minister Darabos: They're always talking about big savings. You have always talked about it before the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, you want the greatest transparency possible. I remember, at the time of the negotiations on the acquisition of new interceptors or airspace surveillance aircraft, you have always said that you want to have the greatest possible transparency. What has become of this greatest transparency? . You did not forward the raw report – which has been discussed in the Court of Auditors Committee – to Parliament. Interestingly, however, parts of this raw report have ended up in ‘NEWS’, precisely those areas that are supposed to explain that you have made savings. That this is not the case has shown the Court of Auditors' report, and how bad it is about our national defence, especially in the field of airspace surveillance, write for example the “Salzburger Nachrichten”: Missing spare parts. The Eurofighters hardly fly. Standers instead of airplanes. Eurofighter cannot fulfill the task. So we now have 15 Eurofighters, tranche 1, block 5, of which six used, piece price 114 million. Before, they would have cost 109 million per piece. Where did you save here, please, even one cent? – You have actually destroyed tax money, you have threatened the security of the Republic of Austria, you have made sure that money is thrown out of the window in the truest sense of the word. And as the Federal Minister of Defence, you are also responsible for the fact that our soldiers are no longer really motivated, and that is no wonder. If you imagine that soldiers with rented buses are being taken to the shooting ground today, because the German army's fleet is so outdated that nothing works, then this is a worrying situation, and they have to answer you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you're talking about peace, Minister of State, then you don't even have to look at the ÖVP. They are responsible for the fact that Austrian soldiers are currently in Chad. And this is already a cure of history that a Federal Minister for Defence has to answer, who has refused the service with the weapon.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16185	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16206	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is almost nostalgia if you can discuss and comment on urgent requests to the interceptors here. We have dealt with some of them here in Parliament. Especially in the time when the SPÖ was still in opposition, we had a fundamental No – before it was a Yes, but in the opposition it was a fundamental No – among the interceptors. Col. Cap thinks interception hunters are simply superfluous for Austria. We don't need them at all, no matter what types, not at all – he's brought this in quite a theatrical way – at big events, because that has always been the argument for us that international major events can only be performed and will only receive them as an organizer if one can also protect the airspace. He said we don't need all of that, we just need to photograph. - We know all of that. Interestingly, this line has changed. We organised the EURO 2008 and, of course, it was a condition for Austria's surcharge for the orientation of this EURO that we guaranteed to protect the airspace, for example, against terrorist attacks or illegal overflights. The Minister of Defence, and probably the SPÖ – for he has said a few times today that it has actually been about party politics, when he thinks that he will not involve a colleague of the ÖVP, even if the Minister knows what he is, and also a strange understanding of office – but he has been convinced that the interception hunters are good and right, because there was even advertising advice from the Minister of the Federal Government, how great the interceptors of the Austrian federal army have secured the airspace during the EURO. So one thing we've achieved: that the SPÖ's Minister of Defense is also convinced that capture hunters are necessary for airspace surveillance even in major events. After all, that's a positive thing. There are also positive points to be made in such debates. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Mr. Defence Minister, we know that you have been commissioned by Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer to order the interception hunters. You have mentioned a second goal for your duties, namely to shorten the military service, but then you have noticed that he was already shortened when you took up your office, so this interception matter was the only goal. My previous speaker has already said that it would have been possible to get a discount of €200 million at the same quantity. So if you had done this, Minister of Defence, I would have really praised you from this speaker's mouth. That would have been a reasonable thing. You could have threatened, we want savings, reductions et cetera, give us a discount. – Perfectly, that would have been a really good task and a really good work of a Minister of Defense. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But then you would not even have been able to put your election promise into practice, and neither would Mr Gusenbauer's mandate to cancel or at least reduce the number of interceptors. That's what you did. And I am not quoting any party political documents now, but the Court of Auditors report. They have bought three aircraft less and, as you say, have saved € 370 million – 250 million by purchasing, i.e. by reducing the quantity, and 120 million by logistics. If I take the cost of these three planes, I'll almost get to the €250 million. It's easy to expect: If I get three less, I'll pay less. - Good. The problem is that some other points are included in this comparison. We now have six aircraft used – really used by the German army. There are no specifications as to how much they should be used, i.e. any maximum flight hours. They send us, of course, the worst they've had there. But the others too are not entirely new. First of all, they are not, as originally stated in the contract, already the development of the original type, but they are from the tranche 1. And here's interesting, but I've wondered, but the Court of Auditors' report says that there are no new spare parts for these aircraft. So the ones that we now get, at the same price as the new ones with the highest quality, are already so obsolete that there are only more used spare parts, which of course will cost the logistics accordingly. Then you, Minister Darabos, have left aside some extra benefits. – I say quite openly to you because you have pointed out that my successor – your predecessor – has already given up some things: I didn't understand that either, because if I buy the most modern device, it should be able to provide these services in a truly comprehensive way. But you have reduced it even further, especially in the field of optical, night vision, bad weather and self-defense. You said we don't need that for airspace surveillance, because that's not a fighter plane. I ask you: What is our airspace surveillance, for example, against terrorist attacks, if, for example, a terrorist command – and they have this device! – Put air defense missiles in place somewhere in Austria and our interceptors should actually secure the airspace? With this self-protection device, such a terrorist attack would have been automatically excluded. Now you've turned this off. Not only our aircraft, but also the civil aircraft, are therefore vulnerable in this area. So this with the fighting ability always sounds very martial, but it's not. This is precisely the task that these planes should fulfil every day for the safety of Austria. That's why it was really a mistake to unsubscribe and get nothing for it. That's the point: It didn't come in for that. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Then you say, Minister Darabos: 120 million in logistics. – But the Court of Auditors says that there is no basis at all for this. So you don't even know what you should have done for this logistics before. We can't say now, from the base we don't know, we saved 120 million for the next 30 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] How's that going? – If I say today – I'm now counting it back on a car – in 20 years I'm going to drive a car at a fuel price of €10,000, I don't know if that's going to be the case, I'm assuming it right now. If I want to save something, I say, no, I won't have a fuel price of €2 in 20 years, but only €1.50, and I'm going to drive only 5,000 kilometers by car, and that's what I'm calling big savings. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Darabos.]] - Yeah, it sounds good, but it's fictitious. It's not really devaluable at all what you brought in here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Also the € 750 million you call are only fictitious, because all of this has been only options that have been included in this contract. But on one thing you have left away now: a 200-million-€-pönale! Because of the delay in the delivery of the most modern aircraft – and this has now occurred – there would have been a fee of €200 million that EADS had to pay to the Federal Republic of Austria. Of course, this has not been done because you don't want these most modern planes at all. Now I count this together, which has taken 200 million Members from Haimbuchner as a possible discount, and the 200 million who would have made up this ponale: We would have had 400 million euros in savings, plus the most modern aircraft in the full number of pieces! This would have been an interesting comparison for the Republic of Austria if you had already brought it in this way. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] 500 million € for counter-businesses are also gone. Because you always say that so fluffy, and now for Carinthia: Is there anything to be said about when a few million euros are entered into a technology promotion fund as a counter-business? [[Abg. May. Kogler: That wasn't a counter-business at all!]] I don't understand why you criticize that at all. Let us be glad that we have brought in billions of counter-businesses for the Austrian economy over this order, which are unfortunately reduced by €500 million now by this comparison! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Darabos, in the end you have said that you are solely responsible. It is not true, however, that you have clearly agreed with the Minister of Finance under the Federal Ministry Act and also according to the procurement law. And general administrative law: I know you have an opinion, I'm sorry I don't have the time to go into it anymore. Professor Mayer says in his textbooks as well as in these relevant proceedings: The agreement is, of course, to obtain the consent. He refers in the opinion only to a different legal opinion of another professor who sees it differently; well, that is a legal opinion. But the uniform teaching is that of course the consent must be obtained. You didn't do that; You'll know why. Under the rule, Federal Minister Darabos, I am now speaking to you as a soldier – also I am a soldier of the Austrian Federal Army in a Vienna Milizbataillon –: If you already make a savings as a Minister of Defense – no matter how high it is – and if you say so, but for my resort I don't want to, because my soldiers don't need it, they don't need more equipment, they don't need more vehicles, they don't need more hours for training, then you really have to say that you have missed its function. We know that today – including through your management – we have only 5,000 soldiers in operation, which would really be operational, for example in the case of floods. In 2002, we used 12 000 permanently. Let us hope that nothing will happen – this too would be your responsibility, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16315	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express briefly to you the following: I took into account the ORF's request that after the live transfer to ORF 2 the entire session be transferred live to TW1 until the end. – This for your information. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the weather channel!]] Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon's word. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16346	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. Dr. Cap: back in the house today?]] Alfred Gusenbauer said at the beginning of the government Norbert Darabos has taken the big deal. [[Abg. Krainer: Today you can...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: When are you going back today?]] – I ask myself today the question and would like to add the following: And what can the federal army do for it? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In recent years, we have discussed the question of Eurofighter very strongly, very intensively, here in the House, and we have been confronted here in the House especially during this legislative period with fierce conflicts. From my point of view, there has been a situation that has now become difficult for you, Mr Darabos, you have not told the truth from the very beginning in the question of Eurofighter. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Mr. Federal Minister!]] You wanted to implement your election promise with all your strength, you didn't succeed, and you got involved in falsehoods. Your untruths, Mr Darabos, don't even hold half an hour! You said here half an hour ago: The German Air Force does not have this DASS system. [[Abg. Murauer: That's not true!]] . I have here a Court of Auditors report from the German Court of Auditors, and that says: Of course, the German Air Force has entered this system, ladies and gentlemen. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Mr Darabos, don't you know?]] This is a little the problem with you, Mr Darabos. They show us the obvious comparison with Eurofighter half an hour ago. [[Abg. Murauer: Either you don't know, or you say they lie!]] I would like to ask you a very specific question: Was that all? Was that the whole comparison you showed us? [[Abg. Murauer: The four lines?]] So you've only shown us a part again, you haven't told the whole truth again. That's just this amusing feeling you've got with you. [[Abg. Prehauser: You didn't show anything about the whole contract!]] When I first heard, Mr Darabos, that the company Eurofighter signed a comparison with you – who knows the company Eurofighter and EADS, who knows: there are hundreds of departments dealing with contract law – on the other hand, the Austrian Minister of Defense alone, and when the representative of the company Eurofighter said: [[Abg. Prehauser: In seven years!]] That was a good deal! I was the first to think: [[Abg. Strache: It's expensive!]] That was expensive for the Republic now! Clearly, it is also the same as the Austrian Court of Auditors has confirmed accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Darabos, what has been done here in the last few months under your leadership, and as far as this Eurofighter Treaty is concerned, it would have been better for me – and I say so now as the ÖVP Secretary-General – if you had just blamed the ÖVP for this treaty and therefore found a basis for your election. [[Still call at the SPÖ]] It would have been cheaper for the Republic, and the Treaty would have been a better one! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it's what it's like: It has come out exactly what always comes out when the SPÖ negotiates in economic matters, namely a disaster! Nationalised, “consumer”, BAWAG, Eurofighter, it’s always the same. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Darabos.]] Mr Darabos, it is always the same! It is a miracle if once the SPÖ intervenes in economic affairs, nothing happens, ladies and gentlemen. The damage is there, which the Court of Auditors has made very clear and clear. The damage is there, and our goal in the House must now be to limit this damage. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16568	Mr President, you only need to explain the request on a rough basis. I've already approved that he'll be distributed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16594	"... 1. ensure immediate agreement with the Federal Ministry of Finance on the current concrete changes in the Treaty, in accordance with the Federal Budget Act; 2. to involve the Financial Procuratorship in the remaining changes to the Treaty in accordance with the Court of Auditors' recommendations; 3. Immediately to the National Council's National Defence Committee, the entire text of the comparison – not only the Taferl you showed us back here today – “and to present the detailed agreement of the Republic of Austria with Eurofighter Jachtflugzeug GmbH,...” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16634	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, as already mentioned, it is also distributed, and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16748	Next, Mr. Dr. Kräuber. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16769	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I am obliged to thank Mr Missethon for using the topic of Eurofighter as a secret weapon against the SPÖ, so to speak, to the Prime Time. This is an incredible misestimation of the population's awareness on this issue, and I can't even take the luck by vote, ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Of course, I will raise some questions that the people will face in front of the television screens. Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel, where is this “economic platform”? – It said: No euro, no cent from the taxpayer, that pays for an economic platform. Where has this platform remained? Do you think the population has forgotten that? Then what happened in the dark circle of the ÖVP with € 2 billion in taxpayers' money? – The lobbyist Steininger, ladies and gentlemen, was very narrow in the investigation committee. [[Abg. Prince: This does not change the economic dilemma of the SPÖ!]] Otherwise, he was a little more freer, and we had to look at terrible things. For example, the Rumpold couple: 6 million € – for what? For a press conference or for having employed Mr. Westenthaler there? Or the couple Wolf, Mr Air Chief, whose wife received money from the Steininger without any consideration. Mr Schüssel, do you think the people – the voters, the voters – have forgotten all of this? To Mr. Molterer, who is going to watch in front of the TV screen somewhere: Mr Fekter, Maria Theresia Fekter, has done all of this, has been involved in the investigation committee here, has covered up. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Excellent work!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Enlightened!]] – And then she becomes an attorney, then she becomes an interior minister? [[Abg. Kößl: A submission...!]] Mrs Fekter is supposed to provide safety, should it be a guarantee for the citizen and the citizen? Mrs Fekter, who has protected the black suitcases of the Eurofighter lobbyists, should this woman fekter now look after the handbag of pensioners? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] How do you imagine that, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Molterer, you're watching. Do you think the people have forgotten what you have done to Parliament's House? This is an account sheet by Mr Steininger from the blackened files, the files blackened by the black ÖVP. [[The speaker holds a document in the height on which mainly thick black lines can be seen.]] This Mr Molterer, ladies and gentlemen, wants to weaken the anti-corruption rules now? - That's great! I can tell you on your urgent question now, Mr Missethon: Anyone who digs a pit will fall into it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the election campaign I am constantly asked by people who say: Mr. Herbs, you've been in the investigation committee for many months. Did there really not be a chance to get out of this contract? – I have to say again and again: I'm sorry, we've really been looking at acribie for months, and there's been a terrible moral picture, a shocking moral image. But from this very bad contract in the history of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, which reserves all rights for EADS and Eurofighter and imposes all obligations on the Austrian taxpayer, there has been no exit. [[Abg. Prince: How is this in the SPÖ Club...?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] So much, ladies and gentlemen, on the alleged economic competence on the part of the ÖVP! Mr Bartenstein has already fled as far as I can see. The Economic Research Institute has clearly explained – Professor Dr. Karl Aiginger, quoted by Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel today – that it is not at all possible to assess this control of counter-businesses in a national way, and that the Economic Research Institute is not involved in it because this is not even serious. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] And this is economic competence, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: € 87 000 at Joanneum University of Applied Sciences for a single lesson? Or that something new is being taped in clothes stores and you will charge counter-businesses of millions of euros? [[Abg. Prince: Is that the Court of Auditors report?]] Or that managers in the investigation committee kneel and swear sacred oaths: This is not a counter-business, and yet it appears in Mr Bartenstein's balance sheet? And here you really believe that the citizens, the citizens, that the voters, the voters, have forgotten all this, Mr Missethon, Mr Schüssel, Mr Molterer, Mr Bartenstein? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We are still on the subject of the alleged economic competence of the ÖVP, and we are still looking at civil aviation from military aviation. The AUA – what are those conditions? [[Abg. Prince: What are we talking about?]] An ÖVP manager who says half a year ago: Rehabilitated! and half a year later he says: Well, there will be atrocities against the employees, and because we don't have a sprat because we can't pay it, we have to set lines!? – Mr Molterer, you are responsible: [[Abg. Prince: Who is the Minister of Transport?]] Is it even clear to you that Mr Ötsch has long had justice on his heels, both in Germany and in Austria? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For this urgent request I can only thank myself from the point of view of SPÖ. Whoever digs a pit falls into the pit!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16955	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 10 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16976	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! That was probably the motto of two years of coalition: Anyone who digs a pit will fall into it. It's done in a tour of "creator" – no, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel, you're not quite involved in it, but you're still going on it – because this was obviously the lead principle in this coalition: [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: He's in there!]] Wadly bites, haxls and see how it throws others into the pit. It was really a pitiful spectacle. Even in this “Eurofight” we find the same thing again; even here we find the same thing again. Just to repeat a short demolition of history: It was, of course, the ÖVP, and you, Dr. Schüssel, were, of course, involved in this procurement, obviously with the suspicion that this would also force a central European armament project, which is, so to speak, also closer to you ideologically and industrially. By the way, one could have discussed this – that would not have been our line – but that was not the case. They have opened all the doors and gates for this awarding process, although there was actually another product that was dim during the open call. I like to be ready to repeat this: pushed and dizzy! It must not be forgotten that this is not at all good for the reputation of the Republic and its authorities. That's it! It was actually a middle class car, if at all, or reasonably ordered a small car – bought You're an air-ferrari, and now you're raining on it, because it's a little spectered. That is unbelievable from the front to the back! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But let's skip a few stories. Evidence has been given to the investigative committee under the chairman Peter Pilz, I think it was very convenient to see that there was a real dimness in order not to say a thing. If members of the award commission receive significant payments from this provider – perhaps not one as a person, but at least his company in which he is managing director – should this not make any difference? – Please, they have all been caught up in fresh action, in fresh deed, because at least this has been observed and revealed by the Greens, but also by some other Members! At that time, when there was still a black and blue majority in the house, they pushed everything down. But when the historic window went up with the last election day and a three-way alliance of this committee was able to impose thanks to God, all this has been confirmed. In reality – now the other side and the real pit plumpser – the investigation committee has supplied enough material to get out of the contract! We cannot spare you this accusation, Mr Minister, because the justification of the otherwise valued fellow herbs does not help much: The pit was dug, and you still jumped in voluntarily! That's the problem: The ÖVP has started a bit bad, and you have not finally had the courage to leave because you were still arrested at the very time when it was the top principle that coincidences are the most important principle. That is why this was also the time when the party greeting “Friendship ” was replaced by a hearty“ Bumsti. ” [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] And that's how we're standing right now. While it is our personal relief to be able to describe this once in a while, it is, of course, a tragedy because a lot of money has been thrown out of the window. The EURO 2008, the European Football Championship, mentioned by you – the ÖVP and the BZÖ – was only proof that it would have gone differently. Until the end of the EURO, no single Eurofighter was officially or technically involved in airspace surveillance. [[Abg. That's a fool!]] - No! We fought with the F 5. First with much less, second with – in your language – old device, but at least much, much cheaper. There was evidence that the Eurofighters were not at all needed during this international event. In the meantime, however, we have sent €4 billion to the window. That doesn't make the herb fat anymore, what you've been negotiating there, Mr. Minister – sorry! We'll also see if that's really all right. The questions are acceptable, but they are not at all the issues today. It has been maneuvered in a completely wrong direction, at the beginning of the ÖVP first with the blues, then with the oranges, and at the end the SPÖ has fallen. However, the following is striking: After the investigation committee had ended, the Causa still did not want to calm down. Well, that's unfortunate soon, but it's true. Payments from EADS and Eurofighter are still appearing. So cheaply, Mr Scheibner, we do not let you get away just because it fits you or Mr Haider in your Carinthian election campaign. You've been talking about counter-businesses. - Just to get everyone to know again: We are talking about € 4 to 5 million, which have been transferred and proved to be paid – into a Carinthian construction. That's all I want to say. However, it was claimed – as justification in the public, and you have said it again here – that it deals with counter-businesses. – These “counters” have not been filed – neither by Mr Haider nor by Eurofighter, nor by EADS – and have not been confirmed at all in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Kößl: Oh, yes!]] We have studied the documents in the Investigation Committee for a minute. These counter-businesses are not available, but 5 million have flown. And for what? – I say it to you: to the political landscape care around the Wörthersee! You know what that means. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Darmann and Kößl.]] – But it certainly was! This is not surprising either because the oranges have maintained a very large tradition in hand in the tow of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Kößl: That you are so uninformed...!]] How else can it be explained that the Rumpold office – at the time still an immediate economic preparatory organization of the Blues, now the Oranges – has received €6 million and has only been able to prove the use of 2 million, and that with dizzy bills? There are those where a press conference cost €100 000. Despite this dizziness, they only brought it to € 2 million when they found it. Where are the other 4 million? What landscape was maintained with it? – You haven’t answered that to this day. By the way, of course, it would be interesting to see how these approaches have looked for the other parties. We have come to know this ourselves, and the persons in the investigation committee have confirmed it: The fungus, the Kogler – all have been invited to talk, but we have remained steadfast, just as at the government negotiations with the ÖVP 2002, 2003 when those did not want to cancel the interception hunters partout. Why, have we always wondered, Dr. Schüssel absolutely wants these Eurofighters and nothing else, although everything else would have been cheaper. That is why it would be very reasonable and useful – I can make a small advance on our proposals for future political hygiene in this country – if all parties – especially in this election campaign – would reveal their party finances – all, but especially the ÖVP! They constantly refuse to understand the books. How do they all get to their money? – That would interest us. In the case of BZÖ – these are a little more clever – the traces have become relatively clear – one can almost say that the finances have been revealed. [[Abg. Kößl: You confuse the BZÖ with Zach and the SPÖ!]] But I'd be interested in how it worked with the others. That is why it would be time for us to finally adopt a party law here in Parliament, as it would be in the face of Western democracy, namely the disclosure of party donations and the nuance of donors. You can only hide behind these insane legal provisions that you maintain here. Otherwise, we might already see who's paying for it. See, this is the only grateful thing about the so-called Liberal Forum: At least there it is admitted that the hazelsteiner is holding the whole party and is actually holding a party. We would also like to see this with you, because in reality it is so that neither the ÖVP nor the SPÖ can afford these poster and advertising campaigns, which can now be observed, from public resources. We know the numbers: It's totally unimaginable. Everyone's got to get a lot more money from somewhere else. I'll tell you: Open this up! That would really be a democratic hygiene offer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, the question of counter-contracts: If there are any counter-actions at all, then unfortunately only in the aforementioned context, i.e. when it is actually about a lubrication carousel – then the counter-business construction still has a sense, not otherwise. We have seen this in the Committee: Certain companies are only in favour of quickly getting money through and that it is relatively difficult to see who is finally the recipient. Otherwise, no benefit can be seen. If the ÖVP economy of counter-businesses is so smart that 15 interceptors are very bad, 18 already better, then why aren't 100 interceptors much better? – It's absolutely nonsense what you're talking about! There is also no mayor in all of Austria and not even in the affected Obersteiermark, where you have talked to them for years about the opposite that would confirm that any job had been created by counter-businesses. [[Abg. Grill: 1 400 jobs!]] It's also a big lie, like much of what you're spreading otherwise. That's what you've done with these Eurofighters. Look how you get out of there! The best thing would be that you wouldn't be elected anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17120	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Darabos again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17144	Madam President. High house! In a short time, because some things have been thrown up, which cannot be left out like this: Firstly, my comparison is far more transparent than the old Treaty which the Government has concluded. I explained my comparison before the National Security Council, before the Council of Ministers and in several talks with the Federal Minister for Finance Wilhelm Molterer. That means he was transparent and also known – both the ÖVP and the other parties represented in the National Security Council and the Council of Ministers. Secondly, according to the opinion I gave on behalf of the Commission, if we had left, there would have been a penalty payment at billions if we had gone out. Mr Pilz referred to the expert: It is that expert he would have liked for the committee himself, one of Austria's most renowned lawyers. Thirdly – and it is very important to me to say this: Do you know what the old contract looked like? If you already confuse the audience in front of the TV with tranche 1 and tranche 2, you should also create clarity: In the old contract, which I did not complete, but disks and plates, it was anchored that one could have delivered 17 tranches of 1 aircraft without pönales until 2014. That means you could have delivered the airplanes I now have without cost reduction and without money payment. That is where I wonder where the criticism of my comparison is going, which brings at least money to the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eßl: That's not even the SPÖ.]] Two things that have been brought into the discussion today that bother me personally: It's true, I wasn't with the federal army. I never kept that secret. However, I have always known about the comprehensive state defence and also about the implementation of the federal reform, which was negotiated under Helmut Zilk and which is also to be implemented after a unanimous decision of all the parties represented in Parliament. [[Abg. Strache: That's why a vegetarian should never become Director General of a meat factory!]] However, this reform is still pending until I take office. Ask the troops and the people in the central station what they think of this process and who had no interest in the federal reform and the federal army – whether it was civilian Norbert Darabos or the ministers before it because they did not dare to attack this hot potato! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Haimbuchner spoke for the FPÖ: Ask the soldiers in Chad to whom they stand! [[Abg. Strache: They've been forced! They have been partially forced to go down there!]] Ask if they stand as Minister Darabos or to those who have rejected this commitment in Chad! – You stand for Minister Darabos, I would like to tell you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The troop has no problem, but if it were one, it would be because of such speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17239	Mr Scheibner spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the rules. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17266	Madam President. My actual correction refers to two points. Mr. Federal Minister Darabos – and I think he should know better – claimed that I had a worse contract with Eurofighter. [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: ridiculous!]] I am correcting the fact that under my ministry the treaty negotiations began, but not concluded. That is why I could not conclude a contract – whether it was good or bad. – You should know better. Second correction – I would have expected the Minister to correct it –: It was claimed by Mr Kogler that during the Eurofighter European Championships it was not used. – That’s wrong! During the European Championship, the Austrian airspace was monitored by 12 type F interceptors, 8 Eurofighters, 22 SAAB 105 and several small aircraft and helicopters after my information. Despite this large number, flight training had to be outsourced during this time.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17309	Mr Fichtenbauer. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17331	Thanks a lot. This shows that you have to be patient in every situation. Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I allow myself to speak in two ways: as a lawyer and as an officer. I start as a lawyer: It's a little complicated what I mean to you now, but it's no different. Federal Minister! It is true that, in a kind of general discussion in the National Defense Committee, we have discussed the contract or comparison that you have considered, perhaps not really signed, at the time, but the written wording was not to be seen. I know the document called "Taferl" by the audience only because a hard-working employee of our club photographed it on television. With regard to the accuracy of your presentation, you recall that it was a savings of €370 million, to the point 10 of this so-called comparison. That's what it says if I can read it well now – if you could borrow your Taferl, it would be even more pleasant, but it'll go like this –: Overall, a total reduction of at least € 370 million is due to the above mentioned points – and now it comes! – on the basis of a corresponding calculation of the price reduction according to points 5 and 6, plus any multiple proceeds in accordance with point 6. - Quote. Did I do that right? – Then I can tell you as a lawyer, and I have been to the business for a very long time: This is not a constitutional statement, but a declarative that builds on the fact that the calculations under points 5 and 6 achieve this price outcome. It is not there – which would be more pleasant for the Republic and would actually underline your position – that a discount on the total delivery of € 370 million has been agreed here. I'm sorry, jurisdiction is sometimes a complicated business, but it's no different. That's exactly the difference: It is not documented and not dubiously stated that a price reduction of 370 million has actually been agreed, but this only happens on condition that the points 5 and 6 mentioned in your calculation are timely in this calculation result. – This is a very big difference. I'm sorry to have to say that. Second point. An inventive inventor has used the term ‘comparative’ for this change in the Treaty. I can tell you: This is completely unnecessary, and the penalty follows on the foot, because, according to my information from the Financial Office, you have been required to pay a tax fee of 5 million. Hopefully you'll get rid of this in the instance. [[Abg. Lens: A stupid G’s layer!]] A comparison is if disputed parties solve the interlocutory interlocutory positions comparatively. This was a supply contract whose volume and price have been changed. That's the same thing as if tomorrow for a fleet for any company instead of originally 15 cars, you only lose more than ten. No man thinks of this as a comparison within the meaning of the legal concept, for then a comparison fee is required. That's amateur – otherwise you can't call it, in all friendship! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next point – now I speak as an officer –: [[Call the SPÖ:The reserve!]] This price or payment reduction is due, among other things, to the fact that you lose three aircraft and that essential systems are not reduced. It is the DASS system – this is a radar warning receiver – and the PIRATE infrared search system – a device for identification at night and poor visibility that ensures the night-time operational capability of the device. They say that we do not need that because, for example, Germany does not have this system either. - That's wrong. The total volume of decrease in the Federal Republic of Germany according to my level of information, which is certainly objective, is 236 pieces, of which 48 pieces of the tranche 1. Only in tranche 1 – that is, only 48 out of 236 pieces – these two protection systems are missing. It is therefore not possible to say that we do not need it because Germany has not ordered it and Germany is a fighting party. Next point: We have the following story of the order process to bear in mind: The post-purchasing decision for Draken was made in the climate of government. [[Abg. Strache: The climate has broken us in!]] It was because it is currently designed in all countries, not for the implementation of the post-purchasing decision. But it was always clear that Generation 4 aircraft were ordered. [[Abg. Strache: We owe this to the chancellor climate!]] I now use a clear term – the Federal Minister for Finance, who is not here now, uses the word “glass-clear” in every sentence, and now I say it again: Generation 4 includes the top variant, leadership of the air war at the level of an foreseeable enemy. – This was also said by Mr. Comrade Bernecker in the Committee of Inquiry. Variants or deviations are only available in the type decision. But whatever type of decision was made – and in reality only four or five types for generation 4 were available worldwide – were: It can't be that we order for the most expensive money airplanes where we remove substantial parts of the self-protection. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Another additional point: In the original version – and, please, we have already purchased 20 pieces, if I remember correctly, of the IRIS-T rocket, i.e. the weapon system capable of operating at about 80 to 140 km – in the first approach of the ordered aircraft, whose equipment you changed, the computer that can use the IRIS-T device would have been included in the price. Now we have to buy by 5 million per piece of system to make the IRIS-T adequate use. – I’m just saying that from the military point of view. One last: In many countries, Switzerland is often used as an example for Austria. Only for size comparison: In Switzerland, the debate is about 72 devices of this kind being purchased. In Finland, too, a country of a large scale comparable size, it is about 72 devices. So we're on top of it anyway, almost dwarf levels. That we are still ruining this now, with this old socialist dream idea, that we only have to write “peace” into the air with a plane that advertises products, and then the others stick to it, and that’s why we only need equipment to photograph, that’s an aberwitz. This is a game with the security of our country, a game with the architecture that concerns our entire homeland. I remember the story when the ÖVP fought massively against the Dragons. In 1971, a Yugoslavian fighter pilot was circled over Graz – and suddenly the Draken came along, and suddenly the Styrian head of state called after the Dragon and his stationing, because it was recognized that in hours the security question could be virulent, that the security situation of a country could be tilted and that Austria should not be protected. [[Abg. Street: 1992 was that!]] I wish to cross this principle of party boundaries and I will also work for this goal in all my political activities, even if I consider its accessibility partly with appropriate skepticism when I look at the left half of the empire or the left third of the empire – so much so now it is only more. It lives Austria and it lives the Austrian German army!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17453	Now comes Mr Mag. Darmann speaking. 10 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17475	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Watchers on the gallery and at home now on TW1 and on the Internet. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Some things have already been said about Eurofighter and the Court of Auditors' report. Before I go into the report, I would like to address a few statements from the green sector and from the blues. It is already interesting, and it is also unmistakable for colleagues Kogler, Pilz and also Haimbuchner to throw themselves here at a deep level with untruths in terms of counter-businesses in Carinthia, because it is thought to be able to make a few votes cheaply and quickly. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Where?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: What counter-businesses?]] But I really guess when the level of a dirty dome election is reached. You know exactly, there are researches of some magazine or other magazine and of newspapers that copy from each other, and everything is wrong. You know, and above all, the colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP – and the SPÖ also blames in Carinthia like a pipe patch – that there are supposed to be no counter-businesses, but party financing. The fact is that this river of the EADS funds has been completely correct and transparent for a technology initiative in the technology park. The fact is that these EADS funds have flowed to Carinthia after the type decision in the context of the counter-businesses, not €5 million, as you have said, that is the first mistake, but €4 million. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No!]] These were brought into a foundation under Austrian law. From this Foundation for the Foundation's purpose – so that I can say it right – to support technology projects and investments in research and development in Carinthia, one million € has already been collected to finance, for example, Lakeside Park, which has created hundreds of jobs. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] The Supervisory Board of Lakeside Technology Park – where SPÖler and ÖVPler sit inside – has known this and has also confirmed and accepted it. This means that, although the Greens and also Mr Haimbuchner – you have referred to the “profile” – can criticise, they may already be. Yesterday, the “Small Newspaper” made a huge scandal out of it because of“ secret foundation. ” One year ago, the same “Little Newspaper ” was published on 7 May. July 2007, about this foundation reports, but yesterday itself no longer knew that there is this foundation. This is the subject of scandal, which has been lifted with it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But now to Mr Darabos, Minister of Defense, who has always been in self-defense for two years. Self-defense ministers would probably be the better expression. I also need to remind you of some of the statements you made here to show how shaky you were from the beginning. The Eurofighter is the worst aircraft ever, and you're wondering how this type of decision could happen at all. Last but not least, at the “Flyout” of the F5 catchers in Switzerland in Graz, you have recorded your big “Flyout” speech: The Eurofighter Typhoon is one of the best, if not the technically best aircraft currently flying around the world. – That may be so, and he would have had it not been because of your comparison, from which we always know only in part, to have made important elements and not ordered them, namely components of the technical establishment of this aircraft, which were essential for the acquisition and type decision that this aircraft had received the surcharge at all. Those were must-criteria, must-destination! If you are referring to the fact that the target collection – and I have to look at it very carefully – the electro-optical target recording systems that you have developed or have not included are so necessary, I have to ask you why a procedure is currently under way in the Federal Ministry of Defence, in which a re-introduction of optical forbearance devices for the pilots of our Eurofighter Typhoon is being tested. That's very interesting! These aircraft would have been fully equipped to be able to identify aircraft by means of clouds, in the worst thunderstorms, at night precisely by type designation. This is not only necessary for the attack, but also for the defence, but also for the protection against terrorist threats. They're making it grow. In retrospect, however, the order has now been given to check what a post-purchase costs and whether it should be carried out. This is clearly a sign of the fact that for party-political reasons only an establishment of these aircraft was removed, but not from military considerations. This should be held here once! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Furthermore, at the last meeting of the National Defence Committee, you have noted on our question, which is now compared to this, that you are now in the middle of detailed negotiations. – That was in May or June of this year. – What has become of this comparison? What comparison are we talking about? – Of the one you showed us here today? What date does this comparison have? If you are in the middle of detailed negotiations with your legendary comparison, it would also be interesting for us to learn what is still going on. It is precisely because of this that it is also necessary to really turn out here and miss out once, to present your comparison so that we know what is going to happen to this republic. We really need to reveal the risks of financial nature that still exist for the Republic and for taxpayers in the long term in order to be able to respond as quickly as possible. 500 million € in counter-business losses, that's not a crack! In this context, one of your statements should be remembered. They were also addressed by the BZÖ in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee last year. Minister of Defense Darabos, take care and be careful, there is a counter-business agreement here to pay attention, as it would be reduced depending on the basic business! To this you have answered: Don't worry; I'm not attacking this counter-business contract! – I held it at the time: That's exactly what's worried me! Now we have the Malheur: At least €500 million in counter-businesses are there. Many thousand jobs in Austria are at stake with this, and you, Mr Minister, are rubbing your hands and saying that you have done a favor to the Republic. That is certainly not the case! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Defense Minister, if you assume that €250 million will be transferred from Eurofighter or EADS to the Republic of Austria in March or the spring of next year, I ask you to pay the following – we are now paying the last rate of €250 million in November, so we will give interest benefit for €250 million for several months –: Haven't you at some point played a role in your considerations that would have been an opportunity not to let this transfer take place at all, but to keep the funds with us and not to generate interest for € 250 million for four months? That's something that wouldn't have happened to experts, but they didn't get you involved in this comparison. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It would also be to say that you said, and I am most surprised at that, and this has also been confirmed by party colleagues by you that you have grown in this office. They have assumed more and more responsibility for this federal army. But then the statement came back from you today: Of course, you have to think about what to do with the money that we'll be handed back. You said this in plenary a long time ago, today again. And here you are Minister of State Defense! You, Minister Darabos, have already found here about half a year ago that you voluntarily give up on these millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions of euros for the Austrian federal army because you do not need them. But you're the head of the department, chief of the department. You are responsible for the Austrian Federal Army – and don't care about €250 million that you give up! In the same time period, you will find more than €100 million in Chad's use until now, although it was not budgeted! Then we start with 350 million €! You, Mr Darabos, turn back and say: I am the best minister of defence that this Republic ever had! This proved to be the case again earlier when you fought wildly and held up every Minister of Defense before you took office, which he did not cause all the negatives for the Austrian federal army. The opposite is the case! Other Federal Ministers for the Defence of the State have made purchases that were necessary provided for by the Constitution and that were carried out as best as possible. They have reduced, give money, make a comparison in which it sets up the hair that deals with it. You can still talk about Chad and our soldiers standing behind you in Chad. I mean, that's what I think. You don't think you're yourself! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They have high phone costs there!]] People who have dealt with it and the Austrian army know very well that you are not behind this federal army, that you are starved at this federal army, where it is only possible, and that you Their competence could perhaps be better gained elsewhere, but certainly not with this Austrian federal army. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17604	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17641	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is well known that I work in the private sector, and I tell you, Federal Minister Darabos: There I was involved in a number of major transactions. If I had ever achieved a result, as the Court of Auditors now points out in the agreement you made, I would have had to take responsibility and take the hat there the next day. Be glad you're not in the private sector! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would now like to highlight another aspect which has already been discussed several times. I quote from the “standard” of the 29th century. ==References== At that time, you still knew very well what you wanted to do with the money that is saved. They said: “I would like to see it if you would use the money for education and for social things. We get the money in cash...” – quote. I'll tell you: It's unique. I have never experienced a minister in my entire professional, political career, who would not have fought for every euro for his department with teeth and claws. [[Abg. Murauer: You don't!]] They are responsible for one of the most important centres responsible for the security of this country and say: I don't need this money! I would still understand, Minister of State, if the German army were to swim in money. The exact opposite, however, is the case! We have the lowest defense budget ever given! The Officers' Society, already quoted today, which is extraparticipal, in which your current Chief General Entacher had a leading role for a long time and in which he is still very committed, considered it necessary in the summer of this year to write a resolution in which deep concern for the German army is expressed – and I quote only one point –: “The financial hunger of the ÖBH” – that is, the federal government – “is a main reason for the bad condition of the already reduced “structured militia”. The lack of financial resources prevents the effective recruitment of volunteers and the procurement of the necessary equipment and equipment of the force.” – Quotes. We have planned eleven militia battalions with the federal army reform. These are so far only equipped with a 20-year-old suit and a handgun. And you just give up on the money? You know, Federal Minister, this is the huge problem that we have with you and that the Austrian Federal Army and the people involved there have with you. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Darabos.]] Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, your lack of commitment to your task and your responsibility is the red thread that draws through your leadership, your lack of commitment to your function, but also to the people, whether professional soldiers or military soldiers who do their best in the Federal Army, are involved, but also, and I find this even more worrying and – forgive you! – More morally indecently, for the citizens we legally require to render military service. By law! They provide as well as they can to protect this country and help people in the face of disasters. And show them the cold shoulder! They're gonna let you down, 'cause you're saying, We don't need the money in order to equip and arm you and enable you. We'll take your commitment, but otherwise I won't do anything for you. And this is not decent, Minister of State, and that is not responsible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say a few words to you now: I'm a military officer myself, and I've been happy to do eight exercises. We are located in the cold outside, we have become wet down to the underwear, and we have been welcomed by the people living there in the area. They gave us hot tea, they gave us shelter, even though we were dirty and wet. You know, that's what we expect from a minister. But you do the opposite: They're abandoning us! They're abandoning the soldiers! As you have shown the ÖVP the cold shoulder in the coalition, do so to the federal army and its relatives! Coming to the end: How can you explain otherwise, Mr Federal Minister, that you do not just give up the money that is urgently needed, not like the butter on bread, but like a bite of bread, but also that At one of the great moments for newly evicted officers in Wiener Neustadt, at the decree transfer. It's better to be somewhere in the election campaign than to take part in it. Is that respect? Is that respect? – No, that is disrespect and lack of respect! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And how do you explain that you have not appointed a military officer to this day, even though you have repeatedly assured us in the Defence Committee? To this day no military officer has ordered! No contact with the military associations in this context, but simply ignore that, just as you ignore your office as you ignore the responsibility and lead your office arrogantly and indolently.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17739	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17760	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and above all gentlemen of the ÖVP, you can turn it and turn it as you want, but one is fix or in this case are even several things fixed: You from the ÖVP are responsible for the opaque, insidious and dubious approach to decision-making for the Eurofighter! You are responsible for the contract fiasco that you have opened up to us, and you are responsible for the fact that the counter-businesses have become only insufficiently public! And this, in turn, points out that there is no such thing as full scope. I find that passage particularly amusing in the urgent question of the ÖVP, where the ÖVP expresses its regret that there are various unclear formulations compared to the Federal Minister Darabos, which can be interpreted differently. – You really need that, gentlemen of the ÖVP! It's true: The wording you have approved in the Treaty is clear, but clearly bad. Some examples: Delivery deadlines have been postponed for years, a transitional solution has been waived, the warranty period has been set at the lowest limit for one year, the resale is only possible with the agreement of the manufacturer, for the seller only a minimum fee is created in case of non-contractual delivery, the liability of the seller is limited, Austria must make the instalment payments in full at the agreed dates, regardless of any claims and reasons. And even when the contract is terminated, there is an absolute and unlimited payment obligation of the buyer. There are nice quotations from various magazines. For example, an economist said: If a concept of a thousand euro-contract had been presented with such a draft, it could have gone on the same day. So what is contained in this contract meant: Even with best will, and no doubt there was, a riskless and free exit from the contract was simply not possible. And the contract you have to answer you from the ÖVP and also partly from the FPÖ and from the BZÖ. This is your responsibility, at the expense of taxpayers and taxpayers in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: You've never signed a contract before! Contracts must be respected!]] Now try to distract from the ÖVP by a easily transparent distraction maneuver from your failure! You've brought us to this mess with the Eurofighters – and you want to distract from it. They want to divert from the real problems of people in this country with this urgent request today. You of the ÖVP have nothing left for the people, for example, because you don't want to do anything against the inflation. The Eurofighters are once again more important to you than that people in our country are better. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Finally, I should like to say to you, Mr President, that it is precisely for you, Mr President-in-Office, that we are dealing with the opposites. So far, there was no way... [[Abg. Murauer: That's ridiculous as you argue!]] That's not a sense argument, but that's what's in the contract you've negotiated! I “gratulate”! This was really a “masterpiece” of the ÖVP. So far neither Federal Minister Bartenstein nor anyone else has been able to call a single counter-business or a single job which, thanks to the comparison, the Federal Minister Darabos has gratefully negotiated, would have been lost. [[Abg. Murauer: You just don't understand that! That's really sad!]] Your counter-businesses are really air operations! My colleague Herbs has already pointed out that only a handful of people have come to the train. This is a moral image of ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ artists. And you can't say it often enough: This moral image is really significant for you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that SPÖ wanted to get out of the Treaty, and the fact is that the ÖVP, together with the FPÖ and the BZÖ, has negotiated the probably worst contract in the world, from which an exit was simply not possible. Federal Minister Darabos made the most of it. It saved several million euros and returned at least one part to taxpayers. By the way, Mr Murauer: You, in your admittedly unusual speech at the beginning, echoed very much the fact that the Minister has flown to Kosovo with a private plane. Therefore, I would like to mention two points: First: It was a charter flight, so the cheapest variant that was possible! [[Abg. Murauer: Since when are there charter flights to Kosovo?]] Secondly, If you are on private flights so much, I would suggest that you ask your minister of the ÖVP Plessnik how she keeps it with private aircraft. She's got more experience! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Murauer, I think it is very bad that at the expense of the soldiers you are making quite, very strange jokes in a very, very strange speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17892	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17913	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you have found in your answer that you have saved the taxpayers money. – Given what I can understand, I think that you have obviously saved only in one area, namely in mathematics and in the field of economics in your schooling! [[Abg. Gahr: Bravo!]] I can truly understand that you suffer in your office! You, Minister Darabos, were not the happiest occupation from home. And as a historian, you will certainly already be able to feel what it is like to go into history as an objector, who eventually brought down or fell down the Eurofighter deal and sent Austrian soldiers to the war to Africa. “Take less, number more” was in fact the motto of your style, Mr. Federal Minister, and you want to sell this motto to Austrians as savings! – Let’s take a look at the operating costs, not only at the absolute figures you have now spoken of when buying, but also at a little bit into the future: Originally, the Ministry of Defense accepted annual operating costs of € 50 million for 18 aircraft and 1,800 hours per year. Of this, €32 million should have come from the Ministry of Finance. Now it looks like this: With 15 aircraft and 1,500 annual flight hours, operating costs will amount to more than €50 million from 2008 onwards, more than €70 million from 2011 onwards and around €100 million in 2013. Is that saving? - No! This means that within five years the costs more than double, Mr. Federal Minister! However, the contribution of the Ministry of Finance does not double, which in turn means that in 2013 the German army may take up € 68 million for Eurofighter operations alone, out of a budget that does not increase and the German army already needs to save at all corners and ends. We therefore call for the budget for our federal army to be increased to at least one percent of the gross domestic product from the next legislative period. But the ÖVP doesn't need to clean up here! [[Abg. Großruck: “pulling off” means that!]] As an argument for the Eurofighter, the ÖVP has constantly brought the counter-businesses to the meeting of €4 billion, and I come to you, my colleagues Missethon and Grillitsch. Mr Bartenstein has repeatedly promised to settle these counter-actions in the affected and burdened region of Aichfeld-Murboden. However, nothing has happened there at all. Of the announced 4 billion in the form of counter-businesses, this region has received just €12 million! Mr Murauer, I do not need to say anything about this. That's the truth! This is reflected in an answer to a question. 12 million € are little for a region that is allowed to bear the burden and has nothing of it, but – on the contrary – is affected by decomposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] 20 percent of the people there are talking about moving away! This is a rural region! Mr Grillitsch, who comes from there, says here all the time: We are for the rural regions! But nothing happens! This is a twirling of the voters! Austrian People's Party is not the right name! They'd have to be called the Austrian Farer Party! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] And what is the SPÖ doing about it? - Nothing! Of all the mandates coming from this region, there is not a single support argument! I have filed a number of requests for the establishment of companies on the basis of the counter-businesses in this region. The only one who once said something positive was Mr Herbe, but otherwise no mandate from the SPÖ from this area has been made known. With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: The voter will present the bill to you on 28 May for this twilighting policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17981	Next, Mr Faul. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18002	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, Mr Amon's speech has confirmed it: What was initiated by you today was a pipe-creper! In the truest sense of the word, Mr Murauer's speech reminded me of the so-called American plane bomb: She was first high-red and emotional, then came a steep waste, but she won't explode because there was a false inflammation. [[Abg. Murauer: She's already exploded!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] You are right, Mr President, because always when you call us to work, you look bad! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious matter: When my staff presented the basis for discussion to me today, she said: Are you silly? What are you talking about? – It really can’t be that we are discussing today the mistakes that have been made by you! I can remind you of a biterl: The preliminary agreement of Mr General Entacher from the time of Mr Scheibner, whom you then made disappear in the Council of Ministers, still had many good and favourable conditions. But then my colleague's bowl broke everything in itself, and all of a sudden everything was null and void. And we've seen in the Eurofighter committee, which diletants on your part then bought airplanes. That was really sensational! It's like our cleaning woman was supposed to do the reconstruction of Parliament! [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] I would like to say: The political offices are completely weak and overwhelmed! There you can scream, as much as you want, it's so! Now I'm bringing you an example that's designed to buy a car: Col. Schüssel as a clubman commissions the simplest housekeeper because the club needs a new car to look at a Mercedes and a Volkswagen. When the hacker comes back, he says to the then Mr. Federal Chancellor and today's clubman: The Mercedes is much more expensive, the VW would actually be cheaper. That's what the Klubobmann says: But we want the Mercedes! Then the housekeeper again collects an information and says: Federal Chancellor! That's great! If we pay in 18 months, the expensive Mercedes is cheaper than the cheap Volkswagen. The Federal Chancellor or Klubobmann says: I don't understand, but if the computer says it's cheaper in 18 months, then we'll buy it right away! The servant says: But, Mr Klubobmann, he's not on the market yet! We don't know how he looks yet! On top of the clubman: It's completely wretched! Finally, the housekeeper uses: Mr Klubobmann, we do not yet know what equipment he has! – The clubman says: It's completely wretched! Now the maid also asks: Mr. Klubobmann! How do we finance that? – Well, the clubman says that we have to shut down the Federal Finance Agency. It's best to go to the car business – say to EADS – and say they should offer you a loan and make the whole financing. I don't want to know anything about it! Mr. Klubobmann and former Chancellor Schüssel, then it has been found that you have had at least 2 percent too expensive to finance. We in the municipalities had secondary market returns of plus 25 percent. On the other hand, you had 2 percent above the secondary market return on your credit rating as a state of Austria! That's what I'm telling you: I would be very interested in where these percentages actually came! Thirdly, on the counter-actions: You of the ÖVP have been there, but you have ignored it, Mr Murauer! This Kasperl, which came out to explain the counter-actions, did not even know whether we had a framework agreement, whether there was at all a claim for counter-actions and what to recognise, but he just said: I don't know anything! Mr Bartenstein just told me to write down a little bit. – That’s air and trust from the front to the back! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Another thing: I read about these grants and foundations, which have been very disputed today. Mr. Klubobmann and former Federal Chancellor! If their sole purpose was – as Mr Kogler has already correctly formulated – to create bassins in the run-up to the party funds, I must say: I hope we will not find another account in this black hole of the atmosphere! Col. Pilz, you don't have to get upset like that! You've always talked about Colt shooting. - So far, he's just been smoking. Look, you're gonna shoot him!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18060	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18081	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the colleague Faul, you have to re-adjust the speaker's desk. – Mr Darabos, Federal Minister, you have already proved that this is the most hated acquisition process of the Second Republic. We have already begun to hate it, we have brought it out in committee. But what you've still put on it is the hate to hate! It will therefore not be possible, I believe, to clarify and deal with all of this today within the framework of the urgent ones. This will be the next National Council. And as it looks, you, Federal Minister Darabos, will not belong to the government at all, not because you may no longer come into a coalition, but because of your own party. She'll probably be served. I have this feeling. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Darabos.]] Look, they tried it and failed. If you are so skillful, I would like to welcome you to BZÖ today! Before, however, you have to explain a few stories, Mr. Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am now telling you that an exit from this treaty is no longer possible. We simply have to take note of this! It can't be anymore! We can't get out! We should now agree on simply making the most of it, Mr Federal Minister, and there would simply be cooperation and openness, glassnost and perestroika. That would now be the commandment of the hour, and not any Taferls, which only account for half of the matter! It will be clear what role it will play Your member of the group has played outside Zach's service. You know, Pepi Cap, if I remember that you had Mr. Zach put yourself in from Heide Schmidt, then I recommend that if you get such a "capitulent" from another party again in the future, look at him better! [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I come to a concrete recommendation in a moment! In relation, you might want to look at the laps you've got on the lap right now! If I hear the cleaners of the FPÖ talking here, then I get stomach cramps, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Saubermen, you have spoken here today: If you're clean, you also have to look for your own stable to stay clean! – I now have to do some educational work for Josef Cap, going beyond what you have to look for in your Parla-ment club, Mafia boss from the East, who go out and join you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] Mr Fichtenbauer, perhaps you will explain this to us today. ==References====External links== August a Mafia-Boss from Mr. Strache and one, a man who is being searched for in his home country of Georgia, because his bodyguard shot a young man there and because he himself was there when he was shot by a confidant of the president who had only barely survived. This familiarity is one of the anticorruption groups that the Georgian President has used. And the murderer who shot this young man died in a Georgian prison under peculiar circumstances. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Listen! Listen!]] Loud dead are accompanying this fine Lord, and he goes out from Mr Strache in the club and enters, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Listen! Listen!]] Mr Cap, you should perhaps look at the cleaners who have spoken about this today. Now you could say: Well, it could be that Heinz-Christian Strache did not know that. The articles are all published in English, and we know that not everyone in the FPÖ can have enough English. It's quite possible, I don't want to abdicate that! But there is a cleaner in this House, ladies and gentlemen, who has known these Mafia patents as a business friend for many years, namely colleague Dr. Fichtenbauer! [[Interim calls at BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Did you not overwhelm that a Mr. Levan Pirveli in Georgia was looking for an old business friend of Dr. Fichtenbauer is? He was his partner and business friend in the Trigon Bank, which collapsed in 2001, ladies and gentlemen, under circumstances that have not yet been clarified. This is also one thing that the next National Council may need to clarify. At the time, this fine gentleman was sitting with you at Trigon Bank, colleague Fichtenbauer! There is an opinion from the Ministry of Finance, which shows that under scandalous conditions – Josef Cap, now you have to listen, I'm talking about your partners now! – Mr Fichtenbauer’s business shares had to be carried out with fair value adjustments, because these were all loans that had been provided with guarantees that were not at all ineffective. Of this was a security of exactly that of the Lord Pirveli. This is an old friend of yours, Peter Fichtenbauer! And Pirveli is justament now, at the time when the FPÖ needs a lot of money for the election campaign, going out in the FPÖ club, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to speculate now, but that could explain why the FPÖ is at once possible to paving down all of Austria with posters of the blue-eyed superstar with the hand pearl chain from Serbia! Ladies and gentlemen, all of this is still in the phase of speculation. Nevertheless, I advise you, Pepi Cap: You better look at your little laps before you get back to a pocket. Look who's on your lap and who's in contact with what Ostmafia is in! Perhaps it's quite interesting to see the cleaners who spoke here today. Or is it true that those who sit on your lap today, Pepi Cap, are your partners of tomorrow? Do you want to go into those circles? I remember – and Mr. Peter Marizzi will confirm to me – that we had serious discussions during the breaking phase about what was there for strange people. At that time I sometimes beat Peter Marizzi for something that met his master. It was about the contacts of the then Federal Chancellor Vranitzky in the East. That's where you came in, but the other guy deserved it! [[Abg. Marizzi: Thanks a lot!]] But now it is different, ladies and gentlemen, now we have a Member in the house who knows that this is a mafia-pate. He knows that this is not a noble Lord from the East, but a well-known, internationally sought-after mafia pattern! And the latter goes in and out of Mr. Strache. A fine society, I would like to say, really a fine society! Mein Ladies and gentlemen, and these people do you want to trust the state? You want to enter into partnerships with these people? I can only warn you, Mr Faymann! Is he here? - Yes. I can only warn you, Mr Faymann: Look at exactly who you are being carried by before you let these people drag you into the Chancellor's Office, who already have the Mafia in their tow! Ladies and gentlemen, we will clarify all of this after the National Council election. Then we have a lot of time and a lot of opportunity to do so, and I invite everyone to work with me on this reconnaissance today! I would be very interested in what the real background of this strange Mafia visit in the Club of Freedoms is!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18194	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon, Mag. Darmann, colleagues and colleagues on “as soon as possible implementation of the Court of Auditors’ recommendations on the disastrous Eurofighter comparison of the Federal Minister for Defence”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. I would ask the two authors, Mr Jakob Auerund Mrs Hagenhofer, to put the votes to the vote. This is the majority, and it is accepted. (E 96.) [[17:40:20]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18247	I shall resume the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda. Mrs Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18271	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! High house! After the very interesting statements made by Mr Stadler, we will return to a government template which could well and gladly have the title “In the evening the lazy will be diligent”, for it is better not to write today’s decision on the care package. For two years, some 400,000 caregivers have currently been stopped and insecured. This care package is also a good example of broken election promises. You can read it: In August 2006, you, Federal Minister Buchinger, together with your colleague, Lapp, created a SPÖ concept for the care and care of older people, and in this you say: ‘The care allowance has not yet been subject to regular valorisation. This leads to an unreasonable devalue of the corresponding amounts with constant or even increasing care needs and is therefore to be corrected by a statutory valorization rule.” consent, Federal Minister! I absolutely agree with you because we knew from the beginning that something has to be done here! I'm just wondering: Why did you not do anything at this time and why do you discover? Are you really just four days before choosing your heart for carefree and elderly fellow citizens and are doing – and only half-heartedly – a care package? This is a government template with a gradual increase in the care allowance, which is really just a drop on the hot stone, because the real purchase losses of recent years are not covered and, of course, the cost of social benefits that need to be purchased has also increased accordingly. It is therefore really incomprehensible to me – and I believe that Mr Oillinger of the Greens has already said it – why the care allowance in the lower care levels is increased less than that in the higher care levels, and for me this is so incomprehensible, especially because it falls into the care levels between 2 and 5 those needing care at home who are cared for and cared for at home. Each of us, no matter what party he belongs to, stands here in the high house or is outside with the citizens and says: We need to secure care at home because 80 percent of the caregivers are cared for at home!, and then are you giving less money to those who can get care at home than to everyone else?- Oh, my God! – That’s why it’s incomprehensible, it’s unfair and it’s also unsocial. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Even if it is not what we want from the BZÖ, we will agree to this increase in the amount of care, because it is above all an important step for the further improvement of care-related children, for disabled children. At all events, all that has not happened in the care in the last two years here is not understandable to me. In 2006 it was the topic of internal policy before the National Council election. [[Abg. Mandak: And what was with you?]] [[Abg. Oils: And what was before?]] – Mrs Mandak, you know: It's said we've got a nursing emergency. The programme, written by Minister Buchinger together with Mrs Lapp, also says: For the SPÖ, it is very important to increase employment in the care professions, and for the SPÖ it is “an important point that needs to be enforced against a little thoughtful legalisation of foreign care workers”. [[Abg. Mandak:... increased by 2 percent, that was all!]] But what happened to the local experts? – No initiatives have been taken to train sufficiently local professionals and nurses. It is still so today, and what the AMS is about to achieve, that someone who is getting out of another profession, even having to raise the money for financing, has to make sure that those who are unemployed, those who are migrants, are paid for this re-training. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's why I'm saying: This is something that needs to be dealt with quickly even in a future period. – Care must be manageable, must be safe and quality, and that is also the most important task for us as BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, have had the opportunity to do something in these two years. But you didn't take this opportunity! The current account is really poor! Great you were actually only in media sale, otherwise you have produced a lot of hot air. We're not going to let go of the BZÖ here! In a new legislative period, we will constantly demand the important things to be done in the field of care – in the sense of reliability and not great promises, but of real action.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18361	The next speaker is Mr Neubauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18382	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Let me briefly look back at the development of the care allowance. The care allowance has not been invented by the former Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun, as has been stressed several times here, but has then essentially taken over and introduced it. However, the care allowance has been worked out by the Austrian Civil Invalidation Association, while the two federal states of Vorarlberg and Upper Austria have been outstanding, which have appeared as a pioneer for this care allowance, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] This has to be said at this point, even in honour of the Civil-Infirmary Association. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Haidlmayr.]] But what red thread is actually going through here in the care money, and indeed in the sense of a red thread, that is also noted: There has already been the first attacks on this care allowance in 1996! Whenever Austria was in debt, the care money has had to be used to eliminate the debt with the care money. They won't consider it possible because time heals many wounds, but: As early as 1996, the allowance for the care phase 3 was reduced by 10 per cent by the Social Democrats and at the same time an attack on this care allowance was made: This care money was also reduced by €635, my dear ladies and gentlemen! When asked the current German Chancellor Gusenbauer, how he is about the care allowance as a whole, whether you might not even do so, he has literally said that he considers the care money to be wrong economically. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously the reason why we have such a problem in the field of care at last to come to a real solution: because the social democracy in the care money to this day apparently does not agree on how to really handle it well and economically. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] Overall, the newspaper was written at the time: With this statement by the current Federal Chancellor, Mr. Gusenbauer has added the greatest personal suffering of his life to the ex-social minister Josef Hesoun. - Quote. Only so much to Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer and to the topic of care money. [[New call of the abg. May. Lap.]] I can only hope that this solution, which is to be adopted here today, will at least last in this form after the elections, because we have already heard that some politicians here in Austria believe that what is now being decided must not be valid for a long time after the election, and some are already sending themselves to hold appropriate talks, how one or the other can resolve this after the election. The Court of Auditors' report did not necessarily express great praise for the care sector, it did not leave a good hair on it, in particular on the Federal Government and on the municipality of Vienna – my colleague Hofer has already mentioned this today. [[Abg. May. Lapp:... at the Social Insurance of the Commercial Economy, Mr. Colleague!]] This can be summarized as follows: 18 months of Pentecost, 18 months of legal uncertainty for the population, 18 months of insecurity of the population – and 18 months of actual indifference, ladies and gentlemen! And that on the back of the population that really deserved it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Two weeks ago, a study on poverty was presented in Upper Austria by Mr Landesrat Ackerl. In view of this, €893 is currently the income from which I am already talking about poverty in Austria, and I can tell you that one-fifth of the Upper Austrian population is covered. In this regard, Mr Mandak asked quite correctly today: €1,000 for care, how can people afford to do so? We of the FPÖ then proposed the Danish model. Some social democrats have said: Yes, Mr Neubauer, that would be good, but the ÖVP does not let us do it! – And this is the problem in this Republic: that when one moves to the left, the other moves to the right and the population usually does not have a positive outcome. We will vote here today, but also in the next legislative period we will insist that this care model in Austria will experience and re-adjust major improvements, because in this form wisdom cannot have been the last conclusion, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18465	Mrs Haidlmayr spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, you wish to do this from your place. I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18490	Mr President. Mr Neubauer said that at the time, when the care allowance was created, ÖZIV had entered. I would now like to repeat the process of the creation of the care allowance correctly. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is not an actual correction!]] In 1986 there was the MOHI meeting in Abtsdorf am Attersee. There the signature action, which then brought over 300,000 signatures for a care allowance, was initiated. These 300 000 signatures were then handed over to the then Minister of Social Affairs Dallinger in 1988, and Social Minister Dallinger then made it possible to set up a working group at the Ministry of Social Affairs. In 1990 the ÖAR, the Austrian umbrella association of all the disabled organisations, jumped on this train and also invited the ÖZIV member organisation. With 1. ==References====External links== I have therefore said this in detail, because I have been there since 1986, so I have cared for it from the previous history to this day. It's important to me to say that because the whole history was a decent work, and I'm proud that I could be part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18526	Mr Bartenstein spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18548	Mr President. Mr Buchinger! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Haidlmayr, you are rightly proud, as we too can be proud of our Gottfried Feurstein and the social ministers Dallinger and Hesoun, because they certainly have their share in this very important changeover, which was taken in the 1990s, not only to do something in terms of care, but also to do it tax-financed, as money. A principle in which Federal Minister Buchinger and I have always agreed in recent months was to further develop this rail, this principle of tax-financed care money financing. Not always have we come to results without conflict, but here we have and we agree, and this should continue to be the common line. Mr Neubauer, you are not worried about this. No one at all thinks about turning back after the elections, but quite the contrary: We know that we still have a piece of the way to go in what I call the last major construction site in the social state of Austria. At the same time, however, the following words have also been said – including Mr Buchinger's words here –: We have made some progress in the last 18 months, a step towards the goal of getting care out of social assistance. In one of the richest countries in Europe, one of the richest and richest countries in the world, it is no longer necessary to become a social case before the full range of care services is available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, of course there could have been less friction, but unlike Mrs Haubner, I believe that the result in this relationship is much better than the political work around it, as some citizens have seen it – you have formulated it the other way round. This is how I see it as a success – and that has not happened, Mrs Lapp, there have already been some talks – that one country after another has abolished the children's rule – last but not least the Styria, also the Burgenland, also Tyrol – that is, it is no longer based on the benefits of children. The next step should be to abandon partner rule. Lower Austria, for example, has already implemented this, and by the way, remarkably also Carinthia. – In this respect, Minister of Finance Molterer has proposed that a care fund should be donated, namely a private-sector pension fund to finance the abolition of this partnership rule. I am very glad that, not in today's decision-making, but in the Council decision-making process, we have gone a long way towards better hospice care in our country. The next government will have to work on this, but I believe that we all want the current development to be well-written in this regard. I did not understand one thing – Mr Huainigg has already pointed out – namely why the issue of “care package”, after Minister Buchinger and I have agreed on it and after it was the summer Council of Ministers on the 12th. In the so-called five-point package of the Minister of Transport and the top candidates for Social Democracy, the Minister decided on August. I do not know what this has lost there, because it has nothing to do with inflation and the Council of Ministers has decided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] I consider it a certain desavowment of my colleague Buchinger and myself to be an election position of Mr Faymann. [[New calls from the Abg. May. Trunk.]] A last sentence in the direction of Mr Buchinger: I too would like to thank you for the good and ultimately constructive cooperation in this area. But I cannot spare you a comment, Mr Buchinger, because you meant it would have been desirable to keep this to yourself in other areas: At the end of May, together with Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor – also the government coordinator Faymann was of course informed and in the process – a pension package, an important social package. This pension package has not been accepted in your bodies, but that is really your business! But if you already remember projects in which we have done good work, I would also like to remind you. Finally, Mr Buchinger, from a summer interview with the "Standard" of 20. Citing August, even at the risk that you already know this quote – you may still hear it a few times. In this interview you have the question: Is the SPÖ too vulnerable to populism? In word, the following words: I have experienced this myself when my pension system negotiated with the ÖVP was denominated as automatic pension schemes by its own party. – O-Ton Social Minister Buchinger. That is a shame, Mr Buchinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18633	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18654	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Bartenstein, when you ask us why the care issue appears in the five-point programme, and ask why we are making it a election topic, I must remind you that the ÖVP is it, the land up, the care theme large-scale, and that for weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Because that's important!]] Secondly, I would like to say a few words to Mr Neubauer. Mr deputies, you have asked how important the SPÖ is on the subject of care benefits. – I think you can see very clearly that it is particularly important to SPÖ because, under Federal Minister Buchinger, the care allowance is really high for the first time since its introduction. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] It is clear from this that the SPÖ is very important on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also very sorry that the Freedom Party and the BZÖ have now and again almost failed to raise the amount of care benefits. – I am pleased about this increase and I think that the 400 000 people who will benefit from this increase will be happy with us. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also a policy. Of course, politics must look to the future; we have heard a lot of this today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] But politics must also recognise the problems of time, help quickly and act quickly. Only those who help quickly will help quickly and twice. I think that increasing the care allowance has really helped Minister Buchinger quickly. In my opinion, this increase has only been made possible by the persistent use of Federal Minister Buchinger, and people will benefit from it – between €71 and €1 125 per year. This is social, valued ladies and gentlemen, that is reliable and responsible. This creates confidence in politics and also gives people security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also very pleased with the improved classifications for severely handicapped children and young people as well as for dementia patients. I think this is a very important measure that will be particularly supportive of these people. And I am also pleased that there will be an extension of support for caring families, because we all know that around 80 percent of all people to be cared for will be cared for by relatives, and I think it is important that these people be supported as much as possible. I would also like to thank these people from this point of view for their valuable work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] All the increases and improvements in the care area are made by 1. ==References====External links== That's important, that's right. Nevertheless, we all know that long-term measures will have to be taken in the field of care. We have to face the challenge, we have to tie up a whole bunch of measures to deal with this challenge. For me, this means that the mobile services are being properly taught financially. This is currently a major problem in Lower Austria, because only nine out of ten hours are promoted and social services really get into financial needs. We need to remedy this so that, on the one hand, home care can continue to be guaranteed, but also that the people working in the social services do not become sick themselves. One simply has to support these people and also value their work financially. We also need to see that the nursing homes can also offer places, because, for example, a waiting list of over 1,000 people to be cared for has also been created in Lower Austria in the meantime. I think it can't be in the sense of politicians that people waiting for care don't get places in the homes. We must increasingly rely on short-term care, on day care and on caring living. So you see, we're all required, and I hope we'll be after 28. In September, together, the positive way to enter the Federal Minister Buchinger has begun to go on, so that the people who are to be cared for can live a dignified, self-determined life.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18724	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18745	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the televisions! If we follow the debate in this way, we note that it is all about the question: Who distributes constituency sugars? And who is thinking about the future? Care money – nice that we can decide on increases today. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Of course that's not an election sugar! If the ÖVP agrees, then of course this is not an election sugar!]] For years, the senior government has been working for these increases. We've been fighting for years. Depending on the level of care, there is an increase of 4 to 6 percent. Let's say it quite specifically: In care level 7 this means 1 655 € per month from January. And if you now expect how much the plus is over the year, then you'll get a plus of €1,124. It is also decided to pay more care for dementia, more care money for severely disabled children – this is important to us, that is absolutely necessary! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, how does the future look like? – We also want to increase the care allowance in the next few years. But many seniors ask themselves: Can we afford that? – If we put the sour tax money in the throat of the companies, then it will hardly be like that, ladies and gentlemen. Tag: ‘Customer Value Tax Sugar’. We need support for those in need in the coming years too. We need more care money. But if the state supports the food companies so much if it loses so much money to the food companies, yes, what happens then? – Then her care money flies to the head of the group in Germany. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Our way is another, ladies and gentlemen: We do not spend all the budget money at once, we are raising money for times of crisis. We're thinking about the future. Dear seniors, I would not have liked to say it, but my predecessor has emphasized the achievements of SPÖ in this way, I am pleased to congratulate you on this. But the fact is: The SPÖ has for months rejected the abolition of the cap. For months the SPÖ has said no to an extension of the care amnesty. And for months the SPÖ has said no to a higher support for self-employed caretakers. That is, the People's Party stands for slow care. Is that an empty promise now, a constituency sugar? – No, Wilhelm Molterer already has a financing plan – and that is the Austrian Fund. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A warm thanks to all those people – especially women – who care for their families in sacrifice. You deserve our respect and our best possible support! And we will also be involved in this in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18807	The last provisional speaker in this debate is Mrs Oberhauser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18828	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! After long discussions, we have a very good law today. It is due – at least to my assessment – to two people: First of all, our Minister Buchinger, who, with his tenacity, has carried out all the rejections of the ÖVP in spite of this law. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And to the Hofer, please, because he has driven this forward!]] Secondly, the two narrow words of the ÖVP Partyman and vice-channer “It is enough!” for the vice-channer would not have spoken these two words and would not have thought that “it is enough” would also be associated with new elections, and perhaps one would also need the vote of voters, then I would not be sure if we had managed to carry out this care money package today. In May, Minister Buchinger called for a 5% increase in the care allowance, and I remember the ÖVP’s broadcasts, in which it said: If there is no question at all, it is not in the government programme, we will evaluate the care money once in December, and then we will continue to look! The consequence from “It’s enough!” is at least that we can decide today a very good package for the caring people at home. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] On the benefits of this law have already been said by my previous speakers, and also by the fact that we have done something different for the care sector – but also for the health sector – than what we decide today. But going there will be quite clearly the decision we will have to make next Sunday. Let us look at a federal country in which the SPÖ has ruled for a long time in a single government, namely Vienna! Let us take a look at what is happening in the care sector! [[Abg. Grandruck: Lainz!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: Worse abuses!]] Vienna spends € 681 million annually for outpatient and stationary care. There are eight advisory centres in Vienna, which provide services to 25 000 Viennese women. We have people who use mobile services daily: Eat on wheels, cleaning services and home aids. And Vienna continues. Vienna also invests in the area of stationary care so despised by the ÖVP. I believe that this is an area that we cannot appreciate enough. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Why is Lainz locked up, Mrs. Doctor?]] Why was Lainz locked up? [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: 1,000 places away – very bad!]] – For a very simple reason: because of a restructuring – this is exactly the way that Vienna is going now, namely to small, residential centres. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: 1,000 nursing places are gone!]] Only today has the city councillor Wehsely and Mr. Stadtrat Ludwig made the groundbreaking ceremony at the “Hellerfabrik” where a completely innovative housing and care project is being launched in Vienna. Here, promoted social housing is combined with a nursing home. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: 1,000 nursing places are gone!]] That is the way that a socially democratically guided city, a socially democratically guided federal state goes! The Viennans have made their decision. And the Austrians will meet them. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: I would leave Lainz! I wouldn't lock Lainz! That's in my constituency! I wouldn't lock Lainz!]] The Austrians will decide whether they want to go the way you and Molterer have suggested, according to the motto: In the care, too, the state should withdraw and we should go into privatisation! or the way we go, namely that care and health care are state tasks for which the funds are to be applied in solidarity, and for all Austrians. That's what we'll see next Sunday!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18985	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat, because we are now voting. We shall vote on the draft law in 677 of the Supplements. Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore vote first of all on the part of the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment which refers to paragraph 6. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – That's the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. [[Abg. That's disappointing! Another election promise broke!]] [[18:14:13]] 3rd. Point Application by Members Renate Csörgits, Herbert Kickl, colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civil Service Law 1979, the Law on Justice and Public Prosecutor's Service, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade in the Law on the Laws of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas to the Seas to the Seas (2008 (S) (889/A) 4. Point Application by Members Werner Amon, MBA, colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civil Service Law 1979, the Judge and Public Prosecutor's Service Act, the State Teacher Service Law, the Land and Forestry Law on State Teachers' Service Law, the Pension Law 1965 and the Federal Theatre Pension Act (901/A) 5. Subject: Proposal by Members Werner Amon, MBA, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the War Victim Care Act, the Victim Care Act, the Military Supply Act and the Crime Sacrifice Act (905/A) 6. Question by Mr Werner Amon, Mr MBA, Mr Colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act and the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act (906/A) 7. Question by Mr Herbert Kickl, Members of the Committee on Pension Adjustment according to the price index for pensioners' households without a waiting period (911/A)(E) 8. Debates of the European Parliament Peter Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (916/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19081	We now come to points 3 to 8 of the agenda. With regard to these applications, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs had a period of up to 23. ==References====External links== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. We are therefore going into the debate. I call Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19115	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! As already pointed out, it is about the 2008 Social Rights Amendment Act, which I would like to make a few comments. I think today could also be a good day for our pensioners. I would like to begin by introducing an amendment tabled by our colleague, Mr Renate Csörgits, and by Mr Kickl, namely the 2008 Social Rights Amendment Act, to which we are now proposing the amount of the increase in pensions after the next pension increase, which we have already decided in November. And I would like to invite all the groups of the House to support this amendment. We propose that the increase be made by 3.4 percentage points from November onwards. We want this percentage to be effective up to the level of the pensions of 60 percent of the maximum contribution base and also to apply a fixed amount. However, we also want to make a single payment, which is socially staged, which accounts for 20 percent of that amount for those who have the lowest pensions, i.e. those who have a compensation allowance or who receive up to €747 per month, and who are to make up the social pension for the highest pensions between €150 and €50. I think that if we can make this decision today unanimously, what I am asking you to do and what I would like to invite you to do, it is also clear to a large number of people in our country that the House and that, as parliamentarians, we recognise their concerns and their problems and that we are also prepared to take due account here of the price and problems of the price. I would ask you to agree to our amendment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today will also be a good day for long-term employees, because we decide today – or at least we suggest – and hope that all of us will share in this decision – an extension of the so-called hackler scheme, for the first time until 2013. This means that male and female births could benefit from this scheme by 1953 and 1958. The point is that at 45 years of age as a man or 40 years of age as a woman can be retired – and that is what you, I think, must emphasize. I think that's an act of justice. Our aim, however, is to bring this regulation to the fore. Hiezu is not yet available, but it would really be important to put the measures in place here in the next legislative period to ensure that this is a permanent right. [[Abg. Amon: Why don't you suggest it? That's funny!]] Our goal as a Social Democratic Party is to ensure that you change from work to retirement – and not about the detour of unemployment. In addition, we want you to get a healthy pension from work. I think it is clear that the state should and must carry the main column in the pensions and that, of course, a second and third pillar, as it has already been discussed today – occupational pension, private provision is meant to be – is not to be rejected as a supplement and of course can also be seen. But in my opinion – and I would particularly like to point out this – the second or third pension column should never serve as a substitute for the first, i.e. for our social pension insurance. I think it's very important to hold it. Finally, I would like to point out that, of course, we also need to look at what the funding looks like. We are always confronted with the unfinancing of the pension system and the like. Today, I have had the pension insurance for workers and employees give me figures about how high the contributions actually come into the system and how high the pension is. It is noted that the total coverage rate is 97.9 percentage points. That is, the contributions that come into the system cover 97.9% of the expenditure on pensions. I think you can say with good conscience that workers and employees, at least with this group of persons, are financially, very well protected for the future. All those who claim otherwise are probably lobbyists of the second and third pillars. I don't think we should give it up.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19167	I declare that the amendment tabled by Mr Riepl, which has just been tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mrs Riepl, has been sufficiently supported, has been presented in his key points and is therefore under negotiation. Because of its scope, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19539	I call Mr Amon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19560	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of these social rights changes, we are discussing, among other things, the extension of the so-called hackler regime. I have, of course, strongly supported the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that the concept of "hackler regulation" should be removed from the whole legal area, which has also happened, because it is indeed a long-term insurance scheme. It is about the fact that those people who have a particularly long contribution in the work process are rewarded for this by a favourable retirement. I am a little surprised, Mr Riepl, because you say the SPÖ would like this to be in permanent law. That's where I have to ask: Why don't you make the request? Then why request that the hacker scheme or the long-term insured scheme end abruptly in 2013? – That is not understandable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you believe that this is a permanent right, why not put this request here? Today's application actually means that someone who is only one day above the deadline must not work until 60, but up to 65. That says your request. That is why we have proposed an alternative. We have proposed that we want a transitional arrangement, a growing into the General Pension Act, into which it contains provisions. We propose a transitional arrangement until 2023. This creates planning and legal certainty for people. This is also the more honest request than yours. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Moreover, all the well-known constitutional judges agree that what you propose is unconstitutional, because the increase from 60 to 65, or from 55 to 60 for women, would be disproportionate and therefore clearly unconstitutional, Mr Riepl. So your request is more intended for the Gaudium, but not very serious. The second point I would like to address is also contrary to the idea of this long-term insurance scheme. I have stressed that the principle of this scheme is intended for those who have made particularly long contributions. The idea must be that this system lives by those who pay long contributions; for, as important as replacement times are, the system does live by the contributor. We have said that we must actually think of those people who worked in the agricultural or industrial sphere after the war and who at that time had no chance of being insured. We have proposed – and this is what our request provides – that there should be a favourable possibility for these people to buy back these times. What are you doing? They say: We do this free of charge, we give these times here! – I have to say honestly: This is socially not fair – that is to say those who actually have these long contribution periods that have actually been paid into the system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is fairer to offer these people: Buy cheaply these times, then you will of course also benefit from this long-term insurance scheme! But just giving this to you, just because we have a choice in a few days, is not serious – I have to tell you honestly. I also believe that it is important and right that we do what is required by law in the area of pension increase, namely that pension adjustment should be made, in the order of inflation; and that, in addition, we will propose this to the Minister of Social Affairs by means of a regulation, in agreement with the Minister of Finance, we also grant 0.4 percent of the scope for negotiation in order to reach agreement here with the senior representatives. I think it is one of a serious policy that we are looking at today, what is going to be decided at all or what expenditure is decided here today. In my opinion, seniors have a lot of understanding for this. These people can usually budget, are usually economical in dealing with their money, and that is what they expect from budget policy, ladies and gentlemen. That is why, I believe, such a regulatory authority for a Social Minister is quite a way forward, and we will propose it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19649	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19670	Mr President. Minister of State, Minister at the Minister's Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Addressed to the viewers and listeners: It's nice that so many are still here at that time. A very short sentence on the long-term insurance scheme – Mr Amon has already characterized something I think is right and important –: It is not sufficient to decide on an extension of the long-term insurance scheme by 2013. We have to think very quickly about how we can transfer long-term insurance rights to permanent law or make a transitional arrangement, as SPÖ proposes – which I imagine very difficult – because from 2018 onwards, the retirement age for women will be increased according to the Constitutional Law. We have a huge problem because we only have short periods of time available to adapt it accordingly. That's just what I'm saying. On the one hand, I understand this request by the EIA because it draws attention to a problem which is missing in the main proposal. On the other hand, I have to say quite honestly: At that time and on this bazaar of interests taking place behind the scenes, to decide on a scheme that is clean and keeps it; and Although I do not think it is possible to do so without committee consulting, in a blind flight between the parties! This is not an accusation of ÖVP or SPÖ, but it is simply facts that we need to take note of today. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a very simple request. I know that the resolution does not last long, there is a new federal government. But we will have to come to a solution very quickly on this issue, which will also ensure a transition that does not lead to the breaks that are otherwise to be feared. The second point, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what has characterised Mr Riepl is that: There may still be something to celebrate today: a pension increase for pensioners. I would like to say to you: Yes, pensioners, of course, have a right to the rate of inflation. However, what I find very painful about what you are proposing, Mr Riepl, is the fact that after the major error of the 2008 pension adjustment – which has caused low pensions to be increased and higher pensions increased – a single payment scheme that is the same again. Let me give you an example: A person receives a pension – which will usually be a female pension – amounting to 300 €. This person will receive a one-time supplement of 60 € according to your proposal. If this is not a self-contained pension, but a pension or a pension under the Vaccination Act, then the one-time payment is not €60, but €150, even if the vaccination case has an income by the way. – That's absurd, that's grotesque! You have to explain this to someone, namely that you want to give this one 150 €, no matter how high his income is, and the other, the woman with the own pension, which otherwise has nothing, only 60 €. I do not know what happened to you in the negotiations between FPÖ and SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. I think that's grotesk. We will therefore not agree to the single award payment in this form. I would like to make the following request on this point: [[Quoted print version removed]] The proposed scheme – be It's not evil for me – it's unkind. That's unacceptable! The fact that you are re-occupied with small pensions, i.e. the women who want to punish the increase in pensions, lacks any logic and any social justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19773	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger concerning the single payment of €150 for all pensions with income below €747 is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19910	Mr Oellinger, with regard to the second request made by you concerning long-term insurance schemes, there is no request to the Bureau. I would therefore ask you to examine this again in your club. We can decide on this later. Mr Neubauer came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19937	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Before I talk about the pension issue, let me get rid of something that has really bothered me for months: Each time there is a discussion in Austria about pension schemes, pension adjustments, self-proclaimed pension experts come forward, which then, as if at the push of a button, imagine why everything is not going. We have the special case here that Professor Tomandel of course immediately at the first Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I now learn from a newspaper that Professor Tomandel himself is dissatisfied with a pension of €7 000 and therefore complains to the Republic because he has only €4 000 net – and that at a poverty limit in Austria of €893. – This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! As a senior speaker of the Freedom Party, I apologize for such calls from such experts in the future! [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it could actually be a good day today. But not if one supports the applications of the EIA, but rather those of the other parties. Then it could really be enough – and not, as Mr Molterer said, “It’s enough!” because it’s not enough for the Austrians for a long time. We want to bring politics back to people with our proposals. In the last few weeks and months, we've been listening to why things aren't going. I have gone into politics so that the official state does not rule in Austria, but instead we make the possibility possible for the people of that country. If we now put forward these proposals to halve VAT on food, then the ÖVP says: It's puffing. – If we say: What about a tax reform 2009?, then the ÖVP says, it's not going to be too soon, we need the money later. – If we say that we want a reduction in the tax on mineral oil to relieve drivers, the ÖVP says: What do you want? You've gotten 14 cents to raise the penalty! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot make any more policy in this country in the future! We certainly don't play with that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will all agree with what is socially acceptable in Austria. We will agree to a reduction in the tax on mineral oil, we will agree to a VAT which will go away to relieve drugs and cures. We will agree to halve VAT on basic foods and remedies. This is indeed in the package for us a discharge of the Austrian population! We want to secure pensions according to the pensioner price index. The consumer price index is unfair – unfortunately Mr Westenthaler is not right – if we complete under the Pensionist Price Index. This time from June last year, the pensioner price index is 3.4 percent. We've been through here, this package carries a liberal handwriting. For the first time, the pensioner price index is being traded and the pensioners are being properly done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals have also used us to ensure that the waiting period for new pensioners is finally abolished. Here's an blatant injustice going on. Whoever made this happen to me is unexplainable. A price compensation is essential for us, in addition to the pensioner price index, an additional relief of at least 150 €. We did this too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, we have also reached the highest pensioners that the cover is increased from 55 to 60 percent, the cover being increased by 5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, the free handwriting in this package is unmistakable. We also want the speculations with pension funds to be abolished in the future. It can't be that people spend their lives in a pension register in numbers and irresponsible managers speculate with the money of these people, who then may even face the fact that they no longer have money because everything has been speculated. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the ‘hackler rule’, I can tell you: We also have access here other than other parties in this House – what I respect, but I am seeking to respect our access as well. We want a permanent solution here. It can't be that people can't say after 45 years: It's enough! They have the right to design their life planning accordingly. That is why we have tabled a request which I am now entitled to make to you: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would really be justice. Give yourself a back, then this day would really be a nice day for everyone involved in Austria today!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20079	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20128	I also announce that the motion for a resolution on transitional arrangements in the long-term insurance scheme, which has previously been tabled by Mr Oellinger, ladies and gentlemen, is also sufficiently supported, is now also available in writing and is therefore under negotiation. This application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20185	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20206	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have to deal with various points under the Social Law Amendment Act: the extension of the long-term insurance scheme, a pension adjustment, which is preferred by two months, of 1. January 1st. We will, of course, vote in favour of this November; we would, anyway, support an increase of at least 4 percent in pensions, a change in the waiting period for pensions, which is now being shortened, so that no one will have to wait a year until he gets a pension increase, but will be recommended from the beginning – we will also give our consent; this is also contained in the request of Mr Csörgits, Kickl. Our proposal, which provides for an indefinite extension of the so-called hackler scheme, also includes this scheme. I am particularly proud of the fact that today – now that there is a certain degree of self-dynamism in this House, as there are different majority groups – it is still possible to decide on a subsidy to energy costs, because in the winter of 2008/2009 Austrian pensioners will be burdened by significantly increasing energy costs, food costs and so on. We have succeeded in formulating an amendment tabled by Mr Renate Csörgits, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Kickl, Mr Cots, which provides for a subsidy on energy costs for the months of October 2008 to April 2009, i.e. € 30 per month, i.e. a total of € 210. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] 250,000 people are affected. For example, if someone receives this grant for the period December 2008 to April 2009, the aliquota shall, of course, be partially paid out. Ladies and gentlemen, now on the so-called hackler regime. I am pleased that a certain rethinking has taken place in this respect, also in the Socialist Group, because it has in the past repeatedly called the "hackler regulation" as "muts". [[Call the SPÖ: Is it!]] Now you also want to extend it – but only until 2013. I would like to extend it indefinitely, because this is a sensible arrangement. I say to you: They include times of an infirmary, the time when someone receives the money from health insurance and not from the service provider – for that I am also. [[towards SPÖ]] In their application, the ÖVP provides for a repurchasing option, because you have to pay something for it, and this can only be done again by those who have the money for it, but not by others. The training periods are also included – I can also support them. A discount-free pension for long-term insured persons – who is that? The so-called experts, who always appear in the media, on television and so on, say that the cost is very much and hit the wrong ones, that is, only the employees. These experts have never hacked, never worked physically, but were still only employees, today have a high pension or another corresponding income. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] This “hackler regulation”, long-term insurance scheme, meets Schlosser, meets Tischler, meets Zimmerer, meets mechanic, meets Spengler, meets installers and meets electricians. Maybe they're not workers? So it's just employees? And that's what it's about now, if someone has 45 years of contributions, he can go into retirement free of charge. This is due to the ninth year of school – the first year that had nine years of schooling – no one is able to reach any more than 60,5 years ago. That's the fact. This regulation is now to be extended because these people deserved it. It's 62 years old. The Corridor Board is a year of life. There everyone can retire, with discounts, yes, but also with 37,5 years of insurance. And those who have made 45 years of contributions, do we not want to do so? – This arrangement must apply indefinitely, ladies and gentlemen. That must be the goal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If this is not the case now, then we must extend this scheme in 2013, as Mr Oellinger rightly said. For women, the retirement age, which currently does not correspond to that of men, will start to rise from 2018 onwards, and from 2024 the regular retirement age of women will also be increased from 60 to 65 years, and until then we will be able to maintain this scheme without further delay, because, due to the longer training period and also the ninth school year, there will be fewer and fewer people aged 60. If you are a pensioner, you are entitled to a pension. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This scheme costs less than most believe.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20268	The amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, the amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Kickl, Mr Cots, on aid to energy costs, is therefore well supported, is therefore considered to be properly filed and is under negotiation. Because of the special scope, I leave it according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be distributed to Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20525	Mr Dolinschek, you referred to the second amendment, but you did not make it properly, so one of your next speakers must do so. I'm just paying attention to that. Mr Buchinger spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20550	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues in the government! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I am referring to some questions about long-term insurance scheme vulgo “hackler regulation” and to some myths and legends that have been trying to spread here – this is because I have had the extension of the long-term insurance scheme since I first extended the bill from 2008 to 2010 with effect 1. It was introduced to the Hohenhaus on 1 July 2007, which is a very big concern. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If it were not for the Social Democratic Federal Government, already this year, in 2008, no more workers with 45 years of contributions with the 60. Year of life and no worker with 40 years of contribution and 5 years of replacement for child rearing with 55 years of age. Retire your life in retirement! This was a negotiation success of the Social Democratic Federal Government in the Government Convention, and you have this in Parliament with effect 1. ==References== [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Right after this decision-making, I have managed everything to achieve a further extension of this long-term insured scheme. This has been a laborious process for many months. In October 2007, I sent a legislative initiative with an indefinite extension of the long-term insured scheme in review – also embedded in changes in the field of heavy-labour law. I believe that part of the ÖVP Group, namely the ÖAAB/FCG, has supported this initiative, but the resistance from the Economic Federation and from other forces in the ÖVP was so strong that I am sorry that it was unable to enforce it. In January, in a government clause, the ÖVP government group even junctified the question of extending the long-term insurance scheme with a pension automatic system, which I could then, in negotiations with Minister Bartenstein, largely mitigate. After the failure of this package, I proposed to decide on the long-term insured scheme as such in Parliament – again with the same discussions, with disapproval of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Where you put back!]] And there is also what Sabine Oberhauser rightly said during the discussion on the Care Money Act: The forthcoming assessment by the voters and by the voters has obviously led to a rethinking of the ÖVP Group here in the National Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] All of a sudden, things that were not possible before will become possible, and there will be an agreement to extend this long-term insurance scheme. I am happy and grateful if this happens today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This extension, ladies and gentlemen, is necessary. It is possible and socially justified. I was at a board meeting of the Industrial Association in Upper Austria about a year ago. There I was strongly criticized for the first extension of the long-term insurance scheme until 2010. I listened to the criticism for an hour, and then I said to the Director-General and Chairman of the Board: Take a deep look at me and tell me who in your company in the last calendar year has reintroduced an employee who was over 60 years old! – How many, do you think, have shown up? - No one! That's what I said: As long as this is so, as long as older workers are largely pushed out of the enterprises and then faced with the alternative of getting unemployment benefit, emergency aid or even social assistance, we will work with social democrats to ensure that the principle applies: 45 years are enough! because this is fair and fair, ladies and gentlemen, very valued. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question of the repurchasing of periods of exercise was a matter which we have debated for a long time, also with the representatives of the peasantry and with traders. This is socially justified. However, if the cost of this post-purchasing, which comes in for pension insurance, can be estimated at €150 000, but at the same time the administrative burden is higher, then this is the motivation for that we have said: If that is the case, then we want to see these periods of exercise as contribution times without going through this laborious bureaucratic detour over a post-purchase. A little second would have been: These buy-in times would have been different – you know, Mr. Obmann – for farmers and for traders. For farmers it would have been a few euros, for traders over 100 €. That would not have been justified either, therefore: Rating as postage, without post-purchasing. Fair and just. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are there not here today in the National Council the proposal of the SPÖ Group to make this long-term insured scheme permanent? – Not because we would not be for it – we are for it! – but because this unlimited design is indeed a task that requires a longer preparation period, because it is necessary to coordinate with the corridor board, in particular with the heavy-worker regulations that are insufficient. This must therefore be prepared in a serious way, and this will therefore be a task for the next Federal Government or for the newly elected National Council. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for those people who, through long and heavy work, have acquired the right to retire free of charge. I would therefore ask you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20619	The next speaker is Mr Keck. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20641	Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I really find it very surprising which shawlmee sounds have fallen here today in relation to the "hackler regulation" – I remain conscious of this term. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to look into the past and say: In 2003 – I too stayed with this term – we had to experience in Austria the largest pension robbery “reform” in the history of the Second Republic! – Yes, that was the case, because the workers were the biggest in this “harmonization” pension “reform”! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is precisely these people, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, who, because of all these measures you decided at the time, have been sentenced to work very long, very long, namely those people who work hard and most of the so-called work-end – I have often explained these figures here in the house – not at all. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Why did you vote against the “hackler regulation” at the time? The SPÖ voted with “No” at that time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since 2003, we have been from SPÖ, here I have tried to bring about changes in this “pension harmonisation”. I really put pressure there – and all of a sudden, the so-called hackler rule was created. Suddenly we were told: We have a model here, 45 years of contributions, 60 years of age you have to be, and then you can go to pension free of charge. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: But not from you, from us! And you voted against it!]] At this point I said: This is wrong for the workers, because none of these pensioners creates 45 years of contributions! Because if you look at the professional course of workers, you have to find that many, because they work hard, often also have long periods of illness. And precisely these periods of illness, ladies and gentlemen, are not periods of contributions, but are only considered periods of insurance and cannot therefore be taken into account during these 45 years. That is why workers often fall out of this “hackler arrangement. ” I was surprised when the term “hackler regulation” suddenly disappeared and was replaced by the term “long-term insurance scheme”. But when I was given the numbers of the main association, everything was clear to me, for, ladies and gentlemen: Since the ‘hackler regulation’, 61,240 people have made use of it. 61 240 people – but do you know how many workers could use this? – Only 10 percent! Only 6 120 people. Only 10 percent are workers who could use this scheme! And why were it only 10 percent, ladies and gentlemen? – Because these people have health status in their insurance course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] What do such illnesses look like? I can describe this from “my” operation, from “meiner” company. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Mr Mayor, you are always yelling in here, but have no idea of working life! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] I can tell you this from “my” company, ladies and gentlemen, and I really know many people who have lost their arm in the work, for example, who have lost their feet or suffered other serious injuries in the work. What has happened to these colleagues? – You have been treated, then you have been rehabilitated, have been well-kept, but have been out of pay-out and have been quite normal insurance cases, so to speak, because this has not been counted as contribution times when these colleagues were sometimes in the sick for months. So these were not contributions, but insurance times. And especially those colleagues who have lost a foot or an arm in the work may now have to work around a year longer because they do not have enough contribution times. I've always demanded: If we take sick leave into this law, we see that we are creating socially compatible regulations for the workers! But of the ÖVP, dear Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, we have always heard a no. Three months ago, I spoke to Mr Molterer, Minister of Finance, and asked him – I have known him for a very long time, especially from Upper Austria –: Dear Willi, see that the sick come in because the workers need it! – But Willi Molterer said that it was too expensive. I have also invited Mr Klubobmann Schüssel to come to Voest with his government team, to work there once as one who is always working at the blast furnace: at the same conditions, with the same payment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] - But that didn't do a bowl. He hasn't done something yet. Dr. Schüssel received a letter from trade unionists from Vorarlberg calling for a reform of the “hackler regulation” by 6,000 trade union members. These trade unionists from Vorarlberg have written to all clubmen here in the house. A clubman didn't even write back – and that was Mr. Schüssel. This letter was written seven months ago. I give him the letter now; perhaps Klubobmann Schüssel can now answer these 6,000 people in Vorarlberg.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20745	Ladies and gentlemen, six more speakers are currently being spoken in this debate. In view of the extent of the amendments already submitted and the pending requests, I submit them in accordance with § 65 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, vote at a later date. The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20770	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Keck, I really appreciate you as a committed social politician, but you should show a little more seriousity here. A complete package has been presented by the government, where all these points you are now demanding from SPÖ – extension of the “hackler scheme”, free recognition of the sick leave, free accounting of agricultural and commercial times – have already been included. [[Abg. Oillinger: Amon said something else!]] Mr Buchinger knows – and this will certainly be remembered for a long time – what this package cost him, so to speak, because Mr Buchinger, through his signature and by the signature of Gussenbauer, probably got rid of his job as a Social Minister, because “Königsmörder” was active in the SPÖ and did not support this package, a package that the government had already decided on! That's the truth, and you should also say that if you're already discussing this package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Amon said the opposite!]] - That's not true! [[Abg. Oils: Oh yes!]] This is about the automatic pension system, which is known – and then there was this resistance in the SPÖ, on this “famous” Sunday, when the SPÖ presidency session took place, so to speak, in which this package, which was already packed, was killed. That's what you have to say, because that's the truth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We from the Austrian People's Party – in particular, I would like to mention the ÖAAB, the employee wing of our party – keep what we have promised. [[Abg. Riepl: It's all right!]] We want to extend the “hackler scheme”, we want to extend the long-term insurance scheme by 2013, which was already taken three times in the Federal Government. For this we stand by the Austrian People's Party, but, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, we do not think it is right that you say: By the year 2013 and then cut, point, off, amen! Where is the planning for people?- Oh, my God! A law will be passed here, and what will say? For example, they're those people with 1. January 2009 to enter into an age-part-time contract that lasts five years? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] What do you say to these people? If this employee was born in 1954, he will have a pension at once four years later. Is that fair? Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this is unconstitutional, and we cannot therefore accept this point. We from the ÖVP propose a grinding system because we believe that this is meaningful, reasonable and necessary. The repurchasing of agricultural periods and periods of sick leave should be possible in the same way as during schooling, but this is also about contributions in the long-term insurance scheme, namely: Hackler's control. That is why it should be possible to do so in this form. That is why I am submitting the amendment tabled by Members Amon, Wöginger, Members of Parliament to Amendment No 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl on a 2008 Social Rights Amendment Act. This request is being distributed, Mr President. The key points are the first to be taken out that the hacker control can actually last until 2023. Secondly, it is about the possibility to buy and buy out sick and agricultural or commercial periods in a favourable way. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as one of the youngest here in the house – and there are many young people sitting on the gallery – I appeal to you. The bazaar is now in full swing, in the next few hours this House will probably be an auction house according to the motto: Who offers more? Therefore, I appeal to you – you are elected representatives of the people – four days before the National Council election: Don't build up barriers to young people that we can't cope with afterwards! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It's unsanitary – it's simply unsanitary! – to go here and offer everything today, to promise everything, but no one knows who will pay the bill from the 29th. You're supposed to pay on September! This is my appeal, which I still want to address to you, because otherwise this is unfair to the disciples and the next generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20901	The amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger is sufficiently supported. He was explained in his core points and is therefore involved in the negotiations. Because of its special scope, I leave it according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be distributed to Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21562	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21583	Mr President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr Wöginger, this House is not a bazaar – of course not. The fact is, however, that by proclaiming government cooperation, we now have a time window where we can decide things away from the coalition agreements in the context of a free play of forces. Of course, every representative here in the House of the Republic of Austria and the citizens in the country is obliged. And if discharges are decided, these measures must also be financed. That's not a question at all. We believe, however, that these funds are available because there has been considerable increase in revenue. What I would also like to say: What is to be blamed for this federal government is the fact that the state reform has not been implemented. It would have been a great opportunity to achieve the most sustainable amount of €3 to 3.5 billion for the taxpayer, so that there is no longer any friction losses in the future. It's a shame that this has not succeeded, ladies and gentlemen. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] One thing you also have to say – you have emphasized this – is: The pension automatic service has agreed with Minister Buchinger. But it was a wish of the ÖVP to introduce this automatic pension system. I am of the opinion that we should not rely on automatic means, simply because politics cannot be allowed to take action. There is no point in increasing the retirement age if there are no jobs for older people in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then you drive these people into old age unemployment with a pension automatic. It has been stressed several times not to rely too much on the experts. You have to hear experts, but we have to decide for ourselves as a politician. If we had always done what the experts told us, we would have often made wrong decisions, because all too often these experts are changing their minds very quickly depending on who they are paying. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add one point, one also to the next Federal Government. This concerns the heavy-worker scheme. I don't know who it was. You, I think, addressed the Voest workers in your speech. [[in the direction of the Abg. Riepl]] [[Abg. Riepl: Mr Keck!]] The Voest workers were addressed by Mr Keck. Consider Now In the case of the heavy-worker scheme: There is a voest-worker on the blast furnace, who starts to do this really hard work at the age of 18. When can he start from what age, Mr. Keck? At 20, is that possible? [[Abg. Keck: Yes, let's say 20!]] He starts to carry out this activity at the age of 20, is physically finished at the age of 40 – this is a hard activity – and then says: I would now like to practice a profession that is not quite that hard, I now become active as a mason!, and he works from his 40th to his 60th. Life as a mason. – This does not apply as a heavy worker, who must continue to work until 65 because these times are not counted. [[Abg. Strache:... is not counted!]] Heavy work is only taken into account if it has been started in the last 20 years and is carried out for at least ten years. And even then you can only retire with a discount of 9 percent. [[Abg. That's unfair!]] Our great request to the new Federal Government is to bring a fair heavy-worker regulation on rails, which guarantees that heavy-work is always taken into account. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21698	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21720	Madam President. Federal Minister! Well, it's already a day full of surprises, and maybe some still follow. The night is still young, the agenda is still long, so there can still be some happening in this House. But what is happening today, now and here at this item on the agenda is already a very important thing, I am very pleased. Mr Faymann, I think you too are pleased. Although you have always said that it is only your five points that should be decided and nothing else, it will now be possible at this item on the agenda to decide by a majority a central requirement of the future alliance of Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to express my thanks to the Social Democracy and the Austrian Freedom Party, which have responded to my appeal this morning, if at least one should warm up to make something for the minimum pensioners in the coming winter in the heating cost grant, and it has succeeded in bringing a common request – I really think that is a great surprise to the present session – here, which – if everyone is involved in it – will then find a majority in the vote. There will be 250 000 minimum pensioners per 210 € heating allowance for this winter. This is a great thing and a real relief for the minimum pensioners. We can congratulate ourselves on this. Thank you very much. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, I have also come to terms with the request made by the Bureau, and by Mr Spindelegger, for the amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, Mr Ursula Haubner, Mr Ing. Westenthaler and colleagues on the request of MEPs Csörgits, Kickl and colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the General Social Security Act and the following to explain in its basic guidelines. We've already done this. We believe that we should give Austrian pensioners a four-percent increase this year, because we have a very high inflation, which will once be 3.7, 3.8 percent, perhaps even higher. If international financial markets continue to act in this way, inflation will rise again. That is why we really believe that 4 percent would be fair. 4 percent would be fair for the Austrian pensioners, of course staggered: more for the smaller ones and then cut out for the larger ones. But I think that 4 percent on average would really be a fair increase in pensions. That is why I have tabled this amendment now again. I think it would be interesting to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21783	I would like to begin by saying that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Hofer, Kickl has been properly brought in, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I also announce that the amendment amendment Dolinschek, Ursula Haubner, Ing. Westenthaler has been explained in his core points, is sufficiently supported and properly introduced and is therefore also involved in the negotiations. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22083	Next, I shall give the floor to Mr Schofp. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22105	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to refer to the request made by Mr Hofer on the subject of the problem of heavy workers and to a new regulation. Mr Hofer, I have not read this request yet, but I can quite support the remarks you have made here. I shall also, if this request is formulated in the same way, give my consent to it. This is also a very important issue for us Social Democrats. And I think we will decide on this proposal together. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important for me, particularly as a trade unionist, to address the subject of long-term insurance schemes, to address the so-called hackler regime, because this issue is in fact being discussed in many undertakings over and over again on the agenda. I was very, very relieved when, a few months ago, in the January, German Chancellor Gusenbauer and Vice-Chancellor Molterer had already reached a fundamental agreement with the aim and with the content of extending this scheme until 2013. However, I was not pleased when we then felt during the detailed negotiations that the ÖVP ultimately wanted to know nothing about this extension, and when it tried to create a regulation with additional possibilities – some previous speakers have already mentioned it – namely the so-called pension automatic. With this automatic one wanted to link the hacker control. Ladies and gentlemen, this automatic pension system – and it must be said quite clearly – could mean that people in this country need not only to work up to 65, but even longer. This pension automatic could be: It also means that workers, female workers, as well as enterprises, must pay higher pension contributions. This could also mean that pensions have to be reduced. That was the topic of automatic retirement. It is therefore right and important that Social Democracy has said: Not with us, we don't want this pension automatic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We just want it to be possible to work as a man for 45 years and as a woman for 40 years, that it is enough. We want you to have the opportunity to retire, free of charge! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important for me to mention the subject of illness. It was and is unfortunately the current legal situation in such a way that sick people who move outside the pay-out are not counted as contribution periods. Many colleagues, who come to us in legal advice, where we calculate pensions, have repeatedly experienced that unfortunately there were diseases, severe diseases, serious accidents at work, in which the disease was longer than the payment of compensation. Our request will remove this problem. It is therefore a very, very important point, an important request that we decide today that, for the first time, sick leave should also be taken into account as contribution periods in the future, and for the second time – and I repeat – it is enough after 45 or 40 years to be able to retire free of charge.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22180	Mrs Hellerer is speaking next time. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22201	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to adapt the pension, which is now preferred by January 2009 to November 2008, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another ÖVP application aims to ensure that pensions from accident insurance as well as pensions are already covered by 1. ==References====External links== I would also like to make a request here: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to comment very briefly on the fact that the ÖVP proposal, which is under negotiation today concerning the long-term insurance scheme, also contains a gap of insurance years. There are, in fact, women and men who have worked or worked in the commercial farm in their youth years, before the introduction of compulsory insurance in pension insurance, and who are lacking these contribution periods. This request now contains a possibility of repurchasing. Ladies and gentlemen, if you give your consent here, you can thus eliminate a long-term injustice and, above all, help the insured ones to benefit from this long-term insurance scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22305	The amendment tabled by Amon and colleagues is properly tabled, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22360	The second amendment has not yet been tabled by the Bureau. Next, I give the floor to Mrs Rudas. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22384	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Dear guests at the gallery! I would particularly like to welcome the Chairman of the Austrian Trade Union Youth, Jürgen Michlmayr. I'm glad you came! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the Internet and TV! I was not quite sure yesterday at the TV-dull, but Mr Amon has now also begun. Did I get that right? Is it really true that you are looking first at what we decide in this House, and then decide whether you are going to take part in the pension increase or not? You act as if the pensioners were your children, and you still think about how much pocket money you give them. To do this, I have to say clearly: This is the money of the pensioners, and that is why we have to decide today on the increase in pensions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to clear up with a prejudice. When you show so grueling on the gallery as Mr. Wöginger explains: Look at the boys up there, no one is thinking about the boys up there!, then I find this embarrassing attempt to heat up the generations is absolutely ridiculous. If you want to do something for young people, then you can later vote for the abolition of study fees, you can contribute to improvements in the education system, They work for a minimum apprentice compensation – but don’t think that the boys suddenly “fall” on their grandparents. The boys and the elderly cannot be divided apart, they cannot be split, because the young and the old are the ones who suffer the most from their neoliberal policies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I did not know that you, Mr Wöginger, do not recognize yourself, but since you have become so nervous due to the automatic retirement system, I must inform you. [[Abg. Wögerer: Not me, but you!]] This was not for the current pensioners, but it would have been for us. The ÖVP wanted to introduce automatic pension systems for us, to abolish for us the social state and political responsibility in the field of pensions. But there the social democracy has crossed – just as the Austrian pensioners, who have turned to the side of my generation in the automatic retirement system, have been protecting themselves from the welfare state of Austria and have not allowed us to have no social security in old age. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen in the EU’s fourth-richest country, it is not the question “young against old” or “old against young”, but the question is, “solidarian against unolidarian solutions”. And there you can trust me: The unolidaric solutions are all more expensive to us, that teaches us history! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22445	First of all, I declare that the amendment tabled by the Members of Parliament, Mr Hellerer, has been properly tabled before, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22484	There is no one to speak on this item on the agenda. The debate is closed. As President Spindelegger announced earlier, we are moving the vote to a later date due to the preparatory work necessary for the Croquis. [[19:22:16]] 9. Point Request by Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Workers' Chamber Act 1992 (917/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22521	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item: Request by Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Workers' Chamber Act 1992 (917/A). With regard to this request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has been subject to a period of until 23. ==References====External links== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. As First of all, Mr Spindelberger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22558	Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Laura Rudas has just given me a key word by referring to the ‘neoliberal policy’. With this term I always recall the years 2000 to 2006, where ÖVP/FPÖ/BZÖ governments have made a policy under which people today have much less in the wallet than they did seven or eight years ago. Because every time – just like today! – when it came to social issues, it said: We don't have any money! At that time the pensioners became – you should not forget that! – with one-off payments, and the health insurance companies were financially starved. But for that – and that is what you said, Mr Schüssel, in the morning itself – in order to reduce the corporate tax, to give up the inheritance and gift tax, or to quickly ship over 70 million large farmers, we have enough money. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP/BZÖ government has led the rich to become richer and more and more people in Austria are getting to the poverty line. It is precisely the people who now need our help. But you don't seem to care about these people. When I look at who is particularly sorry under the cost, I see that it is the workers, the employees, the sick people and the pensioners, and they now need our help. That was the reason why we prepared a five-point programme. Even if you do not talk about it again and again, we stand by it because we take the concerns of the people seriously and address not only the problems of large companies. In this context, the Chamber of Labour has also made it quite clear in advance that rapid measures against inflation are necessary. But what did Bartenstein do about it as Minister responsible? In Germany, for example, are food prices 21 percent lower than in us? He didn't do anything about it! Now there's something that really puts the crown on the whole thing: Instead of addressing the proposals of the Chamber of Workers and taking them up, the BZÖ today makes the request – supported by the ÖVP – to partially abolish or reduce the Chamber of Workers' Circulation. I would like to say quite clearly to you: This is a blow to the face of every employee, because with this step you cut the rights of workers and employees enormously, and you know that very well! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] If the Chambers of Labour have almost 15 percent less revenue in the future, this means that there are cuts in consumer protection and in the protection of workers, because an automatic reduction of the Chamber of Labour budget, which will logically be there, as the payment is the only source of revenue of the Chambers of Workers, results in fewer benefits that can be offered in the future. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] We cannot and will not accept this, because workers in particular now need a strong representation of interests representing their rights at the workplace and ensuring social justice and also taking measures against inflation. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If I now think of what makes Molterer the top candidate of the ÖVP of Schüssels graces in this context, I must say: There he shows his true face by asking the trade unions to negotiate with a great deal of pay for the autumn, but he himself does nothing to help it with 1. In January 2009, a massive wage tax reduction for the lower income levels is coming. Mr Wöginger has just dropped the word ‘unserious’, and I think of it: The ÖVPler – and I don't understand – supports the abolition or reduction of the Chamber of Workers' Circumstances, instead of doing something together against the wave of inflation. [[Call the ÖVP: Yours!]] – That once on the role of ÖVP and BZÖ. But what was not known to me to this day is the role of the ÖAAB, the so-called workers' and employees' association, whose representatives are said to be also candidates for the workers' chamber elections. That's what I'm saying: For me, this is an ugly game you're driving on the back of the workers! In other words, to stand up for the rights of workers, and here in Parliament to oppose the representation of workers' interests, this is pure hypocrisy. Shame, Mr. Neugebauer. Shame, Werner Amon!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22637	The next item is the report by Mr Neugebauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22673	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk to my trade union colleague, the president of the Socialist Trade Unions Group – as always, Willi Haberzetl, we speak plain text together. My office told me that you made an APA issue yesterday, and in view of my statement that I thought the request here was worth discussing, that I said that you were being stupid. I'm stupid if a railway trader could once become “stainable”; I think that's just a semantic consideration. But we hear often and rightly – and this today has very impressive Mrs Mag. Kuntzl said: We have to go after every euro for those who really need it! In connection with the assignment debate, I have received a lot of emails last time. For the most part, the officials said: You can't do that! Although nothing has actually happened yet, we have only opened a discussion, and I think that is legitimate. The eightfold of these were letters from mandatory members who said: Finally, something happens to you, you're making a social staggering! That wasn't our initiative, but I think it's worthy of discussion. The interesting thing about these letters is the following: It has become clear where the Chamber of Labour can save a great deal of money, namely by abandoning the majority of the Socialists' group on their party-political agitations in favour of compulsory contributions! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] I also think it is worth discussing to the friends in the Chamber of Workers: There are good examples of the social partners at the other end of the table. A few years ago, the Chamber of the Commercial Economy made a very rigorous concept, but not for the sake of saving – if you look at it, you know it – but simply for that reason to achieve more impact. It has chosen the method of reform from within and has saved 30 percent and has nevertheless been more powerful. I am not in favour of having – and this is also my attitude in the future; we have already experienced this with the railways – that by law one intervenes in the autonomous sphere of action. We don't do that this time either! [[Abg. Parnigoni: But the Federal Chamber has ten chambers, the Chamber of Labour has only nine chambers!]] But it is important that we continue this process of thinking about how to offer more favourable with the same quality. Therefore, I make the following request to the competent Federal Minister:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22734	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neugebauer and others has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22785	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22807	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The situation of Austrian workers is not easy: The incomes of the workers have actually fallen in real terms in recent years. In addition, under the title ‘flexibilisation’, new burdens are constantly being added, almost entirely at the expense of the employees. In order to save costs and increase profits, more and more full-time jobs are being converted into part-time jobs, small jobs and free service contracts. Unfortunately, more women are particularly affected by these developments; women work more and more often, but are usually fed only with non-existential jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very brief summary of the extremely worrying labour market policy and employment policy balance of this great coalition! [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: Full Employment, Mrs Colleague!]] Minister of Labour, you can no longer hide your neoliberal policy behind the beautiful unemployment statistics you are always publishing. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Say what “neoliberal politics” is! You don't know that either!]] We know that this is at the expense of the employees. Every person concerned knows this when he observes his situation at work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this situation, which is becoming increasingly difficult for workers, we have a request from the BZÖ, which calls for us to be represented by up to 13 percent of their resources, just now – 15 percent, I hear! - take away. As a rule, you ask the BZÖ to reduce this reduction on the grounds that you want to relieve the low income. Unfortunately, Mr Dolinschek, whose name is at the top of the request, is not in the hall. I'd like to know if he thought it through. A worker who gets more than 0.5 percent of her gross income – which is about €3 to €4 net per month – may in future lose the support of the Chamber of Labour in important court proceedings, which is about asserting her claims due to shortages of capacity. These claims would lose them if the Chamber of Labour could no longer support them. And they make up a multiple of these €3-4 net. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So I cannot support this request, because you are damaging this demand, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, not only to the Chamber of Workers, but above all to those who depend on the support of the Chamber of Labour. I hope you're really aware of that. I don't have the impression, though. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, who will agree to this request or who have even brought their own into this matter, tell the Austrians clearly what you want to do! Don't hide it! Tell me very clearly! They of the ÖVP want to weaken the legal representation of workers in favour of all those who make profits at the expense of employees, through the exploitation of employees. [[Abg. Newborn: That's bullshit what you're saying!]] It's just about it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Newborn: That's absolute nonsense! We are against party-political agitation!]] Only when injustice occurs when laws, treaties, agreements are not observed must the Chamber of Labour become active. I hope that everyone will remember when he comes to the election on Sunday, how your vote has looked on this matter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have to say – this time to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ –: You're not innocent of this situation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] - Please? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Broukal.]] You, mys. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are not entirely innocent of this situation. The Chamber of Workers, dominated by you, can certainly be said, can now be attacked very easily, because instead of representing the interests of workers and workers independently and firmly, also in relation to the respective government, the Chamber of Labour – and unfortunately that is what you have to say – is used by you in a party political way and becomes a party political player without any restraint. [[Congratulation with the greens as well as detonatative congratulation with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Give an example!]] That's just not all right! And you know that, Mr Riepl. [[Abg. Riepl: Do you have an example?]] The Chamber of Labour must be over-party, must be independent and must only act strictly on the interests of workers. Only she can do that! And there's a lot of rushing, and there's a need for improvement. [[Abg. Riepl: Give an example, please!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] I am not saying that this in any way legitimises these applications. This does not legitimise these applications, no question, and that is why we are certainly not involved in such requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22999	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking for a little more rest! I would also ask that the talks on the government bank be stopped so that we can continue the debate in peace. Next, I give Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23024	Madam President. I can make it relatively short: I don't understand the excitement here at all. In fact, it is a matter of a purely relief measure for Austrian workers when you talk so much about redundancies for workers today. It is not about the abolition of the Chamber of Workers or about any destructive action or other, but we believe that in times like those in which people are to be saved everywhere, and where people get little income, the Chamber of Labour should also be called on to save. For example, the Chamber of Labour could make a little less campaign for social democracy by imposing a little less posters and folder and putting up the support, then it would already save a lot of financial resources. [[In the case of BZÖ, as well as detonatative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] They are really nothing but the fourth column of SPÖ, the election campaign is at the expense of the forced members of the Austrian Chamber of Labour! We are concerned with nothing but that we will completely delete the chamber contributions for the income earners up to €1,100 and then take a social turnoff, so that in principle the effect arises that for a million Austrian workers a discharge of up to €77 will at least look out. That's more than 1 000 s in old currency. So that's not little! What you would pay back here could even be – I remember – the “Eder-Tausender” who goes back to your former minister and co-deputy. That's not so bad! We therefore have nothing against it and have therefore tabled this request. If the Chamber of Commerce has already submitted and has covered and lowered or adjusted its membership contributions, it would also be appropriate for you to consider whether the AK levy is not too high, whether it cannot be reduced at least for small incomes. This would certainly do you good to workers. I stay there – I said it this morning, Mr. Klubobmann Strache: I don't understand your swivel! I hope you'll explain it to me right now. Please remember: The abolition of compulsory membership has always been a question of flags for the liberals, a fundamental requirement! [[Abg. Strache: Then you can agree today!]] The reduction and abolition of the chamber envelope was also a decades-long demand of your forefathers in the Freedom Party and also of us. We even have in common – remember back! – a popular desire, a not unsuccessful, launched, which was directed against the chamber pressure and also against the AK charge. Why you are defending the red Chamber of Workers here today was not clear to me in the morning, and – there has been no change all day – even tonight I am not aware of why you are supporting the Social Democrats. Except for what happened again, what is going on here today like a red-blue thread: that Klubobmann Cap, your new partner – possibly Your new coalition partner – who once again introduced you. You should prefer to stick to the principles, and here you should also take a stand for the reduction of Chamber contributions and for forced membership to end once and for all.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23072	I would ask the authors to give their support in the vote. Next, I give Mr Klubobmann the floor for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23102	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, this is exactly what we are talking about: If you have principles, you should also remain true to your principles and not constantly waver back and forth. That is why we are also making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has always been a liberal principle, should it remain and will remain. But now I am saying something to you, all Members of the House: If I look at this, you prove today, with your request, that you are a bulldog of Mr. Schüssel or also neoliberalism, because you, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, are basically one-sided, starting from every principle of freedom and saying that you only want to remove something from the Chamber of Labour or make a reduction in it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Chamber of Commerce has already lowered!]] You're not talking about forced membership at all! They don't even talk about the other chambers there. This is a very one-sided measure, which, of course, is transparent and shows the thought behind it: that one tries to act unilaterally in one area as a sidecart of the ÖVP, but forgets the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what he's got from the cap now!]] Now I say the following: If you have multiple business certificates today, unfortunately you still have to make very unfair payments to God at the Chamber of Commerce – and that is discontinued. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You saw it!]] There's a lot of things we should put off! Especially when I look at the billion disaster that we had to experience at the BAWAG in connection with the Caribbean speculations, where red responsibilities have caused disaster and breakdown to the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and have also broken down the moral legitimacy of an employee's representative, I must say that it is particularly important that we represent workers' interests today and that there can be at least one area, such as in the Chamber of Labour, which hopefully will represent workers' interests more strongly and also correctly – and where we hope that we will not pursue party policy as in the past, where the so-called anti-governmental demonstrations have been financed by the Chamber of Labour from the year 2000. There's nothing lost in such a game policy! I expect from a workers' chamber and from an employee's representative that once we are on the table, when it comes to the fact that the trade unionists have to be afraid of their pension, that they are staying on the track today due to the irresponsible red responsibilities, that today 300 to 700 BAWAG employees are facing the termination, because the Cerberus company, the “Höllendog”, is there ready to go through on the back of the workers and free the operation of employees. I also expect an employee's representatives to be on the table when Gitti Ederer plans to have Siemens put 2,000 employees on the street. At last I expect an employee's representation – and not silence in the forest, because it's about red representatives who stand for their party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is a need to stand above party policy and represent workers' interests, and I miss this in many areas. Especially in times when it becomes more difficult when we are experiencing an American financial crisis, in which we unfortunately have to experience that workers' interests in many areas are increasingly falling through rust, it is important that there is a strong employee representation. And this is a nail sample today, yes. You don’t want to have anything to do with the “little man. ” I understand. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (pointing to the SPÖ) These are your partners!]] This also distinguishes us from you, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, and the representatives of the BZÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what he's still standing for!]] Yes, we want to represent workers' interests! We do not want to pursue neoliberal policies. We want to ensure social justice in our society, and we do not want to act unilaterally and act as you do today. I would like to make sure that, of course, we are also dealing with the social partners in this area, but I am also open to the request of the ÖVP, Mr Neugebauer, to review where there is a right and good savings. There you should sit together – but not only with the Chamber of Workers, but also with the Chamber of Commerce, just as with the other chambers that exist in Austria, instead of just doing it unilaterally, as is the case. I would just like to remind you: If you have several business certificates today – I have already said so – then you also have to pay several chamber charges. This is not necessarily a medium-sized policy, as I imagine it to be. There is also a need to reassess some of what has not yet happened at the Chamber of Commerce. That is why we are not going to agree to this request today because we are not making a unilateral attack on workers' interests. There we go, please, at a maximum of €5 per month, which you want to save here one-sided, but where then perhaps legal claims are lost. And I say, I am opposed to membership of the Chamber, and I am also opposed to Members of the Chamber, but we need an entire system here, which affects all the chambers and where we finally act equally, fairly and fairly, and also say that we want a free system here, where everyone in these areas should receive insurance offers. No question! – But not as one-sided as you did today. What you're planning here today is very transparent. And precisely the perceptibility depends on the viewer.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23236	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Strache, Mr De Keersmaeker, has been properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23297	As the next speaker, I give the floor to Mr Muchich. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23318	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Members of the Federal Government! We know that BZÖ and Jörg Haider have tried to weaken the Chamber of Labour several times. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Privileges removed! Rechberger!]] However, I am disappointed that the ÖVP is involved in this. I am disappointed that representatives of the ÖVP, representatives of ÖAAB and FCG are here and are trying to weaken the representation of 3.3 million employees. I tell you what really hurts me as a trade unionist and also as a social partners: that in your ranks there is a union president who opposes the interests of his own members and employees in his trade union public service, in section 21. [[Abg. Strache: But how many trade unionists still live in penthouses and are still not out? - Please, with all appreciation! You should create cleanliness in your own house once!]] This hurts a trade unionist trying to weaken the chambers here. You should know that 2,400 employees in the Chamber of Labour, experts, represent daily the interests of 3.3 million workers. You should know that 2.2 million consultations are held each year. And you should also know that €250 million of open claims for workers will be met annually in court or extrajudicial. – If you know all this, I am surprised that you can make such a request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is incredible to me that trade unionists, black trade unionists are here with us who are willing to weaken our hard-fought legal representation. [[Abg. Neugebauer:... don't listen!]] They are not only weakening workers in the Chamber of Labour, but also weakening the 3.3 million workers. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: 3.5 million!]] I'll invite you to: Go to the farms with me! I've been working on construction for ten years, I've been a trade union secretary for 16 years, and I'm calling you three examples from my constituency from the last few weeks. [[Abg. Steibl:... election campaign sponsored! Sponsored by the union!]] Take me to a metal company where it is announced that at the end of the year 50 percent of employees will be reduced! [[Abg. Scheibner: But the Chamber of Labour does not create jobs!]] Take me to a carpentry farm in Leibnitz, where workers, family fathers and single earners have been waiting for their money for three months! Take me there! Then you will no longer make such requests, and then it will not happen that the Minister of Labour will switch advertisements with "full employment" and "safe jobs". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What does this have to do with the Chamber of Workers?]] I'm really inviting you: Take a ride and look at this! That's because that's a fallout. [[Abg. Steibl: Yes, with the money of the union you can easily walk!]] When a survey by the company SORA says that 76 percent of AK members clearly Yes, say the current AK charge – 76 percent! – then please take note! Accept the opinion of the members of the Chamber of Workers that they want to keep it so, and do not apply for such careless applications! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is this formulation, please? ‘Vulnerable applications’? - Get a little bit together!]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Here too, there are a few things to do. As a trade unionist, as a union president, you should know that Mr Neugebauer is aware that only by law can the AK levy be available. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: A maximum contribution is defined by law!]] You should also know, gentlemen of the ÖVP, that the Federal Chamber of Labour cannot act, but that the Chamber of State acts as a self-government body. You should know that! At a time when the working world is getting colder and colder, at a time when the economy is getting harder and harder, I am really looking for you in this matter: Take off your party glasses, put your personal sensibilities behind! Think of the 3.3 million employees! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: 3.5 million!]] We need a strong working chamber in this cold economic world more than ever!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23508	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I now ask the authors to support the vote on the Bureau. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Ing's motion 917/A. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues included a bill concerning a federal law amending the Chamber of Workers' Act 1992. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Neugebauer, colleagues and colleagues on the sustainable reduction of the Chamber of Labour. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chambers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[19:52:58]] 10. Point Request by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in a federal law amending the 1994 VAT Act (893/A) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Request by Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues in a federal law amending the 1994 VAT Act (924/A) 12. Point Request by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the 1992 Price Act and the Price Award Act (892/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23618	We are therefore going to the items 10 to 12 of the agenda. With regard to these applications, a period of time was granted to the Financial Committee until 23. ==References====External links== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. [[Abg. Oellinger: To the Rules of Procedure!]] Before we go into the debate, I shall give the floor to Mr Oellinger for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23652	Madam President, I would like to ask you to clarify the following question: Two amendments were tabled at the agenda item on the Social Rights Amendment Act: one by Csörgits, Dolinschek, Kickl, the other by Csörgits and Kickl. Both applications provide for the new § 638 to be added to the ASVG. One application provides that § 638 should include a one-time payment for 2008, and the second application provides for a grant for energy costs in § 638. There are therefore variations in the content of the same section, which are made by the same or partially different consignors. I am looking for clarification of the following question: If we vote on both proposals, then perhaps both of them will receive a majority. What will § 638 look like in the future? Is this a “tweezer paragraph” consisting of two paragraphs 638? Is it so decided, as the President said, that in the order of voting the application is then deemed to have been accepted as the second? Or how... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't even know what majority there are!]] I assume, Mr Westenthaler, that perhaps both applications can find a majority, and then we have two paragraphs 638 with different content. And that is exactly the question: that I would like to know before we enter the voting process how we can and can vote and which § 638 in the case of both finding a majority is then considered to be adopted: the first, the second, or both – or none, which would probably be more meaningful.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23690	Are there any further statements on business treatment? – Please, Mr Klubobmann Cap.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23716	I thought that Mr Oellinger was speaking about this strategy by the ÖVP to come up with an amendment which would probably take one or two hours for the creation of the Croquis, which would completely confuse the entire agenda and the processes and chaotise Parliament. But I can also say something about it: I see no problem at all in the fact that these two paragraphs are those with the number 638. If you feel better and comfortable, that will be § 638 and § 638a. That's nothing special at all. You don't have to worry, it's done quite correctly here.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23745	Further word on business treatment: Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23782	That really provokes me now! The SPÖ: Renate Csörgiteinmal with Kickl, once Renate Csörgits, Dolinschek, Kickl – Ms. Csörgits is there every time. She will probably notice that she proposes different paragraphs 638! I mean, do you think you're all right? – A chaos is caused by the SPÖ! That's really ridiculous, Josef Cap, for what request are you voting for now?
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23819	Is there any further word messages to this effect? – If that is not the case,.... - Sorry, I have overlooked you, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23849	Madam President, you have seen me before, and at 1.72 m I am actually quite normal. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I mean, I think it's great what Josef Cap trusts me. That there is a certain trauma about strategy and tactics in some of you, I have already understood. But so good I really am not that I have organized two different requests from Csörgits and Kickl that contradict each other because they take the same paragraphs themselves. So please, with your permission, my magic skills don't go that far! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger, however, is perfectly right in the matter, and I am really saying this now: What we're doing here today is absurd! I've been thinking of myself. If all of this is decided – and I am not talking about VAT now – then that alone is as much as €2.5 billion. If VAT reduction is also decided, then it is €3.5 billion. Yes, to the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This has nothing to do with Rules of Procedure!]] – And if someone of the 183 MPs now tells me that he knows exactly what in § 338a para. 1, 2, 3 point 12, 14, on which we shall vote, then, please, congratulations! Then you're noble-priced! - That's not all right! He has been properly advised. [[Abg. I would also have liked to check that out in the EU Constitutional Treaty! I'd like to check that out.]] This has not been done like in the bazaar behind the scenes. That is why I really ask for proper submission. This will be quite feasible with a renumbering. But at least oillingers are perfectly right to show that, and you don't need to laugh about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23927	Further word on business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23952	Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, I am generally completely different, because you already have to look at what this is about: This is a heating grant for 240 000 minimum pensioners. And that's not something you don't know what it's all about, but it's supposed to be decided today. I see no problem in this whole story, because there are two applications, a request from Csörgits and Kickl and a second request from Csörgits, Dolinschek and Kickl. That is, if one goes from the majority relationships and also from the people who have signed, then one will find the majority and the second will not appear. That's so simple. Therefore, only one will lead to a decision. That's the point. But what it is all about, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel and everyone else, is that you can't make it that easy. I am also of the opinion that many things may be brought in and voted unnecessarily today, but we are sensitive on this point in particular. When it comes to helping the poorest of the poorest, the minimum pensioners, with a heating fee of € 210 to get over the winter, I don't let it go. This is to be voted on today, and it is good that we have found a majority in favour.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23982	There are no further statements on business treatment. I announce: There is no in-depth review of the requests on the part of the Bureau. The applications are admissible and the majority will show up. Should there really be contradictions, the Constitutional Court is at home to correct them. But the Bureau itself has no way of correcting the content. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No, that's stupid!]] This is the result of the deliberations at the Bureau. Madam President, Mr Prammer is still speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24020	Madam President. It is a bit unusual for me to speak on the Rules of Procedure, but I can now say the following: We have, of course, taken precautions. In principle, if today two applications for one and the same law are adopted almost or almost equivalent, then both will apply. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When they are decided!]] Then, like any other law, they walk into the Federal Council. It will also be possible to review and decide whether one of these legislative initiatives or both will be decided – both could be decided again – and then, like any other law to ratify the signature to the Federal President and then to call. The final disclosure made is the valid one.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24054	The first speaker in the debate on agenda items 10 to 12 is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. You have the word for 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24076	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I am glad that I am now talking about another subject and not that, because, I believe, the confusion is even greater now than before this debate on the Rules of Procedure. But now I am speaking to God, thank you for another subject. Ladies and gentlemen, to reduce VAT on food. – We are now discussing this for the third time within a few days. We did it at the special meeting on 18 November. We discussed this today, after Mr Vice-Chancellor's statement, and we are now discussing it again. I admit that it is much more exciting now, because after this debate the vote will be taken. That's why it's much more exciting now. But, ladies and gentlemen of the red and blue parliamentary coalition, even if we still discuss it so often, it will not be better. It's that – and Copyright has Professor Van der Bellen – what Mr Van der Bellen called a tax-political Gau – is an excellent name! – the greatest accepted nonsense, namely the reduction of VAT on food. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Van der Bellen, thank you for this great puncture of this project of the red and blue parliamentary coalition! Ladies and gentlemen, that is why it is so quick, because first of all it was clear from the house – and we have also been confirmed by a letter from the EU Commissioner – that EU law is not permitted. We already have two preferential tax rates, 10 percent and 12 percent, and a third rate is not possible under EU law. Secondly, it is not socially sound at all. It's a redistribution from bottom to top. The rich who spend more for food, of course, have much more savings if it were passed on. The third point: The savings are not even passed on in the food trade – not, please, because the dealers are Gauner, but because there are also cost increases in the food trade; Cost increases from the upcoming wage round, cost increases at energy prices and the like. That is to say, it is a welcome occasion for these food chains to accommodate the cost increase if VAT is anyway reduced. That means, ladies and gentlemen, 1 billion € would be written into smoking. There are also cynics who say that it would be much less bureaucratic to transfer these 1 billion to the four large food companies based in Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, what I mean by “bureaucracy” is the price law – which you have also introduced – which provides for all food dealers with more than nine employees to announce all their prices at the end of November – that is thousands, for the entire range – and that the price police will then check a few months later whether the reduction has also been passed on, although at the same time cost increases have occurred. This can only have been invented in brains that have no idea of economic practice at all. Therefore, I very much hope that reason will prevail in the course of this debate and that instead of this VAT reduction, which would be written in smoking, with which we would burn 1 billion, we will adopt a joint motion for a resolution, which provides that this 1 billion € will be used much better, much more effectively, much more efficiently, in the context of a comprehensive reform of the income tax and wage tax rate. That would be my great request that we still be able to do so today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24118	The next speaker was Mr Krainer; again, four minutes' speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24140	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The economic situation before which we stand is that there is in the small part the problem of inflation, that we have high price increases, not only in the food sector, but also in the food sector. Last year: pasta plus 38 per cent, food oils plus 30 per cent, bread more than 10 per cent, cheese more than 10 per cent – that is what we experience in small sizes. In the large part, we are experiencing a halving of export growth – instead of 10 per cent of export growth only 5 per cent – and an extremely weak domestic demand, but the problem of domestic demand is not new. Let us look at what the five-point programme, namely to reduce food prices, to increase family support, to increase the amount of care, to abolish the “hackler rule” and the study contributions, has an impact on the economy, not only for individuals but also for the economy. The Wifo has calculated this and says: only 1% of domestic demand – which is almost a doubling – and plus half a percent of GDP. That is what we can now need, especially at a time when we have a GDP weakness, we have a weak growth: that we get an additional impulse. This programme, this five-point programme, brings half a percent of GDP and, also calculated, almost 10,000 jobs, especially since we have been having seasonally adjusted labour market problems since March. – In this respect too, something very reasonable. If, now, the ÖVP believes that this is not socially correct, I ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: Would you like to explain to me that the abolition of inheritance and gift tax was socially sound? [[Deputies Mikesch and Dr. Stummful: Sure!]] 50 percent have not yet paid any inheritance tax, the four largest inheritance cases have received € 25 million, 30,000 cases null. [[Abg. Mikesch: It's about job security, it's about security of training!]] Is that supposed to be socially sound? This can really only be imagined by the ÖVP in this way; it seems that the ÖVP only benefits the rich. Otherwise, you can't even value these calls. Next question: Price control law and pricing law. - Yes, we want to strengthen control. Yes, we want the establishments to report food prices at 30.11., so that you can understand exactly who is passing on the savings and who is not. We already have price monitoring systems in other areas, at energy prices, electricity, gas, mineral oil – in the food sector we do not have it. We want to introduce it there, and we also have a relatively simple Rules of Procedure: Not the little grabber around the corner is affected, but the big chains. Yes, they are to report their booths as of 30.11. And yes, they are to report the prices in the price commission, if there is a request for them. That is, if the VKI or the Chamber of Workers want to report the chains on this area, they should be allowed to report them. New is: These surveys may also be published. Especially when it comes to measures to promote competition, information to consumers is a very essential point, and this is also taken into account here. In so far as: If we do something for domestic demand, we make something for food to become cheaper, and we do something for more price control!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24186	Mr Klubobmann is speaking as the next speaker Van der Bellen with 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24208	Madam President. Mr Krainer, I don't think you're listening! Want to introduce competition with price authorities – you should have done that before! The whole idea of VAT reduction only works if there is a sharp competition in the food trade. You should have done that before, not now. [[Abg. Krainer: It's before! It will enter into force before!]] Ironically, the SPÖ... – Mr Krainer, you will have been present at the last special meeting convened by the SPÖ. Who has shown us here in plenary firmly and firmly that competition in the food trade is a very weak one? Who was that? That's you from the SPÖ! Six pages long, straight and firm. Let's not argue about whether there's a competition or not – you've proved us: There's no one! And in such circumstances, to expect a VAT reduction to be passed on in the prices, permanently, sustainablely, is adventurous, Mr. Krainer, you know that yourself. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] This will simmer just as much as the reduction in the drinking tax, from which no cock – and no chicken, by the way – have noticed something. It's not going to be safe anyway. You have already blamed yourself with the exceptions for caviar and watchmen and so on; you have forgotten the elk cheese. Now you have come to an almost satanic idea: We are unable to define what genuine luxury goods are, but one needs to know, namely: Mr Finanzminister. He may empty the soup, he may consider what comes from Appendix 2 in Appendix 1 of your legendary law. - That's a joke! This is how bureaucracy creates legal uncertainty in trade: Is the replacement caviar perhaps a real caviar, or was only the beluga caviar meant, or is trout caviar really caviar or just eggs – what do I know – no watchman, but other eggs? And what about the allergics, the You can't eat chickens, you know, watchmen? Do they have to pay 5 percent again instead of 10 percent? There you come in devil's kitchen! 1 billion € in tax default – yes, okay. We could have long been able to use these 1 billion in favour of effective measures in favour of low, lower incomes in the area of wage and income tax reform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another sentence on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher and others, which is still being tabled. . We will vote in favour of the request, but just as he has been formulated, Mr President, he could be told that you are thinking only of technical reforms in the context of wage and income tax. They know, however, that very many people in Austria do not deserve so much that they do not pay any wage and income tax at all. As part of your application, it could at all events be favoured under the so-called negative tax, i.e. the tax premium. But that only works in 2010, I will draw your attention to it. So for direct measures, we propose a reduction in social security contributions in the lower area. I hope you just haven't mentioned this explicitly now, but I'm sure you'll keep an eye on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24260	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Hofer; also 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24282	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Professor Van der Bellen, you've been theorized for a lifetime. I ask you: Have you ever assumed responsibility in a private company, managed a company? - You didn't do that! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I was a watchman producer!]] They have always explained to others how business works and how to do it. There is, I think, a not insignificant difference. I have looked at it, Professor Van der Bellen, which is what the chief executives of the large trading chains are saying on this proposal. [[Abg. Brosz: To super! Grandiose question!]] After all, those are people who run companies. I will never forget – to break even for Veit Saleeine lance –: Veit Salemuste can be said in a committee by an economic chamberer: You have no idea of economics! And that of someone who has been in the Chamber of Commerce for a lifetime! Veit Salehat is a big company – successful! – led, and for that he must also be respected. Ladies and gentlemen, what does Rewe Chief of State Frank Hensel say? “As a matter of principle, I welcome a reduction in VAT as an emergency measure – this reduction would be one too one for us to pass on to consumers.” SPAR CEO Gerhard Drexel says: [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Sure! Two weeks!]] “At SPAR, consumers can of course be sure that we will immediately and fully pass on VAT to customers.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] HOFER General Director Armin Burger: ‘A reduction in VAT would lead to reduced sales prices for Hofer. It is a matter of course to pass it on to the customers immediately.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Amen!]] Mr. Dumbly laughs. – Do you also laugh at the small trading companies, the Greißlers? [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: No!]] So they'd pass that on? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: They also have a cost increase!]] They won't pass that on either? What does destination director Johann Schweiger say: ‘If VAT were to be reduced, the price reduction would be passed directly on to final consumers. There would be no discussion at all." [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is not comrades from the SPÖ, not members of the FPÖ – I can guarantee that – are all people who are more close to your mind and who you are obliged to lower this VAT. That's what you're saying, ladies and gentlemen. But these rulers say something: Further measures are needed to relieve consumers. They say you have to start with family promotion. – Interesting. They also say that a significant reduction in the tax on mineral oil would be necessary. – Interesting. Why isn't all this done, ladies and gentlemen? Why don't you rely on those who have experience in the economy? Why do you just trust your business chamberers? I trust only one, Mr Secretary-General Mitterlehner, who said that trade would, of course, pass it on to consumers. That, ladies and gentlemen, is very essential. Why are we for that? – For us subsidies, redistributions are always such a thing that we do not really want to support. We're always for tax cuts. This is a useful way, because people are not involved because they are not dependent on politics. Tax reductions, ladies and gentlemen! You best know, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer, that there has been more revenue for the public sector through the reduction of corporate tax for the public sector, because the economy has grown by this reduction in corporate tax. And you know the other way around, that by increasing tobacco tax you have taken less. That means, that's not static. If you turn on a screw in this system, then something also changes in the system. You always have to take this into account. What I find difficult to understand now is that the BZÖ will vote against this measure, although the BZÖ in Carinthia collects signatures for exactly this measure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How do you know that we are voting against it?]] I assume we'll see it then. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We do not vote against it!]] I'd be very pleased. They therefore collect signatures in Carinthia and will also vote in favour of this measure here in Parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You'll see!]] That would be very nice, because then it is also possible to implement this measure for the citizens of Austria. I am just excited whether there will really be a majority here in the house, like the rulers Stadler, Mr Klement – he is not here – will then vote. You will still have a lot of fun in the BZÖ club, ladies and gentlemen, because I quote Stadler's statements about the BZÖ: warm brothers, freemasons, luggage, beekeepers' association. [[Abg. Scheibner: More than you!]] – These are hard words, ladies and gentlemen! You remember, ladies and gentlemen – Herbert Scheibner, you know that too –: For Knittelfeld, the BZÖ – FPÖ division, Ewald Stadler was one of those responsible. It will not be funny for you in the club during the next legislative period, for I tell you that this Judas will betray you before the cock crows, ladies and gentlemen! You'll feel this on your own body. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does this have to do with VAT?]] I wonder, What does Ewald Stadler do in the evening, now that he's with a club that supports abortion? Do you kneel in the bathroom every night and then tease because of your change of mind? Do your kids have to wear BZÖ-Leiberl now? – Ewald, far you have come! Do you have a penitential belt that you always get stuck when you get up in the early morning and have to realize that you're at the BZÖ now? Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to say is: Reliability in politics means that you also have to look at the people who work in politics, and that you also go through the line you have. And if I hear this criticism again and again today: There are votes, coalitions between SPÖ and FPÖ!, then I say to you: There is no such thing, ladies and gentlemen. There will be no coalition between FPÖ and SPÖ, for which the differences between these parties are far too big. You of the ÖVP always have a coalition with the SPÖ, you have also been looking for a coalition with us, also with the BZÖ. Ladies and gentlemen, why is the EIA so upset when there are changing majority groups? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because they're not there!]] I don't know, maybe I'll be After this election, you will enter a coalition with the Greens. So: This criticism from your side, ladies and gentlemen, is really inappropriate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am very excited about how this vote is going to take place today. We want tax reductions, and if the EIA is against tax reductions, then we will have to explain this to the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24517	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools with 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24539	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the government! Appreciate High House! I can tell you that, from the point of view of farmers, grain prices have fallen sharply. Milk prices have fallen, the potatoes cost very little, onions almost nothing. And you tell me that price cuts will be passed on. Well, thank you! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Is this also the case in the agricultural sector that no price reductions are passed on?]] The only price that goes up a little bit is the pig price, which is also interesting. That's why the schnitzel doesn't need to get more expensive, because this was 15 percent more expensive than last spring, although the pig prices have fallen. Leut’ln, the price cuts are not passed on, everything else are pious desires! Another topic: The tax on beverages is 10 per cent. Can any of you remember that beer has become cheaper? Why don't you ask at the construction site, they'll tell you that. [[Abg. Parnigoni: As economically hostile as the ÖVP, that is immense! We shall distribute the speech to the economic operators tomorrow.]] So, dear friends, we don't need to discuss this issue of the transfer of VAT reduction, that's what normal people outside know for a long time that this doesn't do anything. However, we also know that it will cost a lot, yes, a lot, because the lost VAT is simply missing where the mayors are waiting for revenue. We are lacking in financial compensation, we are missing where the countries have their finances, and we are missing where the communities have their finances. And if the reduction in VAT is decided here today, the mayors can already take control of the Rotstift. We know that these proposals are illegal in the EU and that VAT reduction will not come. Now I'm wondering, Why do you suggest, knowing that this can't happen? If you decide to do so, the EU will make problems for us because there will be a infringement procedure against Austria. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Who's telling you that? Mr. Kovács?]] I don't know if it's important to you that you keep your word; it might be that you do. Speaking of Kovács, good keyword: One has asked the other amical, so I hear: You, Kovács, are we doing this? And this one said: That's what we're gonna get! – Unfortunately, however, ordinary officials in the EU have said that it is not that simple. A head of state asked for the same answer. – You know that 5 percent VAT is not going, and you still want to do it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But we make the laws in Austria – and not the EU officials!]] Now we have this very interesting situation: They want to plant the voters – I can prove it – and the freedom-loving people want this to come because then they can resort to the EU for half a year because the EU does not allow it. And this mixture is peacock. The red-blue pack that's collapsing, that's indecent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As Mr Hofer said today: “Pack is beating, Pack is going to be!” – Was that the red and blue pack he meant? Dear friends, this project is really hard to find. You know for yourselves that it will never come. That's why you didn't even write a date of entry into force in your request – that's what the blues have overlooked and you have just the same – because you don't believe it's coming. It's a pure electoral plant, nothing else. And this is really unpleasant: This project has already flown up as an electoral gag, as a broken election promise before the election took place at all. That's how this has rarely been done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a lot to learn there, but there has been a lot of things in the last few months: We now see the election promise that will be broken before the election, and we see the trail of Mr Faymann: Mr Buchinger: a trade union victim, he will no longer be there. Mr Gusenbauer: a ghost in the Hofburg, one can no longer see him. The Lord Matznetter already has his termination, already knows who his successor will be. And today Mr. Klubobmann Cap also gave his farewell speech. - So, comrades, it's all right with you! Dear friends, the Lord Strache is already ringing around air, because he has to get used to this close and warm embrace that he is currently experiencing from you. Ladies and gentlemen, the constituencies must be made clear. Mr Faymann has three gifts for us: the red pen for the mayor, the vulture for the communities and the silk cord for some of you from SPÖ – you will see it! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I know that we can and will do a lot more reasonable with this billion, and I am really convinced that this will be a good thing in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24642	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler with 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24664	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that, of course, a reduction in taxes is always a good thing and that we face such a positive one. In the last few days and hours, however, there has been a lot of uncertainty on this issue, which has led to uncertainty for the electorate and for the citizens. [[Abg. Bures: Something else happened to you! Be honest once!]] Mrs Bures, it was your Social Democratic Commissioner, who, as I am now hearing, also intervened with your colleagues from SPÖ, to the office of Mr Matznetter, your responsible Social Democratic Commissioner, who informed us in a letter that there are only two reduced tax rates available in Austria, and therefore a five-percentist is no longer possible, and the EU would take action if this was decided. Now you can stand to do what you want. We are also critical. You can't believe it. You can't believe it. But one thing is clear: On the basis of this statement, you cannot guarantee voters that this VAT reduction, if decided today, will not be cancelled in a few weeks or months after the election and will then receive a price increase for consumers. You do not say this risk about the Social Democratic Party to the voters! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] It is the same style as with Gusenbauer 2006: It is promised everything before the election, and after the election it cannot be observed or crushed. And Faymann does the same. You can't guarantee that we have legal certainty here. Nor can you guarantee that this reduction in VAT is at all for consumers. Do you know what happened to me? – 14 days or three weeks ago, when this discussion started when it was in the media for the first time, do you know what was there? There's an older lady at an election event talking to me and saying, Mr. Westenthaler, I was shopping right now. Do you know what happened? From yesterday on today on bread, milk, cheese and other foods in my supermarket the prices have been increased by six to eight cents! Now you can think of what you want – perhaps a completely normal measure, but it may be presumptuous that it may be possible to reduce VAT. That is, you can't guarantee that VAT reduction will not be primarily a promotion of the German wholesale chains and will not reach the consumer at all. That is why we said: Let's do something more reasonable with a billion. Let's make a tax bonus that concerns people directly: €200 plus €50 per child, a tax bonus where people can do with the money, what they want, where there is no legal uncertainty where people can spend the money, but where they want it, and not where it is raised to them. That would have been our idea. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I already have the impression that Mr Faymann is simply making it too easy here and says that this is to be decided today, then he has his, five, four, three – I don't know how many points it will be today; there are always less and less obvious – points being made, and then the National Council election comes. And then, after the election, according to the motto “principal German chancellors”, if that is lifted and if the reduction does not come to the consumer, all this is no longer so important – but before the election we decided it and promised people. But I'm sure people won't give you any faith here. But again: We are in principle in favour of discussing tax reductions, but also VAT reductions. And that is why I make a very good proposal to you, and I think you can agree to it. In order to create legal certainty and also to find instruments for the consumer, and to find a very, very good solution to VAT reduction, one that really holds, I suggest that you refer today's request to the Financial Committee so that we can discuss it properly, as it does for the House, as it does with all the other requests, with experts, including wholesale experts. We can all invite these experts; no problem at all. Then we do nails with our heads, then we do a decent job in the high house – and then we can still agree to a VAT reduction, but not today: without security and without any guarantee that it is for people that they really have something of it. [[OBJECTIVES]] I believe that this is a correct and reasonable proposal, and we are therefore submitting a referral request accordingly. Due to the fact that there is a lack of information and legal certainty, it cannot be said today about a No or Yes. This can be decided in the next committee, which really does not have to be decided today. I think that's a right way. But what should be decided – and there is no legal problem at all, and we know that this can also be implemented accordingly – is a reduction in VAT on medicines. Such a request is available today, and I think you have it in your package. I therefore believe that this proposal will find a majority; hence, a reduction in VAT from 20 to 10 percent for medicines. This 10% reduced tax rate exists, and that is not against EU law. That is to say, we from the BZÖ are pleased that today we can decide with you to reduce VAT on medicines, but we have decided on the third most expensive drugs in the European Union. I'm fine. It is a good initiative of BZÖ for the sick, for the sick in our country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: We stand by it! We are faithful, Mr Westenthaler!]] We are not in favour of constituency, Mr President. Today, you can't promise the voters a quiet conscience that this VAT reduction will arrive at consummation or that it will be in conformity with the law at all. For this we are not from the BZÖ. As we have said, we want to do nails with our heads, we want to discuss this properly – and we do not decide disorderly here. However, we will also put forward a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher and a bold one in case we in the Committee, with the experts, actually insist that this does not work, that we cannot implement it. Then, with this € 1 billion – that is the proposal we are bringing in today – a wage and income tax reform is to take place as far as possible. This is then certainly feasible, and this is certainly true of all citizens, including the wage and income taxpayers. That is why I shall now put forward the following motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, Dr. Stummvoll, colleagues, on the request of Mr Haberzettl, Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Finance is asked to submit to the National Council, as soon as possible, a legislative decision-making draft which, instead of socially unbeatable and non-sustainable reductions in VAT on food, will ensure a reduction in wage and income tax. The discharge volume should also include the 1 billion, which would have cost a reduction in VAT on food.” I would like to make a second request for a correction concerning the reduction of VAT on medicinal products: [[Quoted print version removed]] That was the correction request. I think that with this proposal, with this idea of referral, we are right: Let us discuss this with experts, and at the end of the day, we decide whether such a reduction in VAT will come to our citizens and whether it is legally sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, you agree to a referral back.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24797	I declare that the amendment tabled by Mr Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. . The resolution adopted by Mr Westenthaler is not yet available to us here at the Bureau. As the next speaker, I shall give Mr Magistrate. Rossmann's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24822	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The economic researchers tell us that we are in the middle of an economic downturn, yes, they even expect a recession. A change in the labour market has been taking place; the global financial crisis will add to this a little bit. And it is not unlikely that the Austrian Economic Research Institute will reduce its economic forecast for growth for 2009 to less than 1 percent next week. Without counter-taxation measures it is likely that unemployment will increase by around 20 000 to 30 000 people in 2009. - That's the one point. The second point – against the background of a VAT reduction that is planned here – is that employees suffer significant net net losses in the course of this year, on average in the order of 0.7 percent! What matters is economic counter-tax. And how can you counter economically? – Certainly not by reducing VAT on food, which we know exactly that it will not reach consumers! We have experience from the past enough why such reductions do not arrive. First of all – and thank you very much, Mr Jarolim, at our last special meeting – there is no competition in the food markets, and there, where there is no competition, VAT reductions on food will not be passed on. However, this measure is not a social measure either. Since Jan Krainer here spoke of “social security”, I would like to remind him of what he has decided everything with his party in this legislative period under the heading “social justice”, together with the ÖVP: tax privileges for private foundations and the abolition of inheritance and gift tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] - Jan Krainer, you're shaking your head now, but: We know exactly what we are talking about, Mr Doralt, about tax privileges for 3 300 private donors in our country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you look at OECD studies a little bit, you'll see that these say that it's safer than VAT reductions are always social transfers. However, a reduction in VAT is also something which – and has not yet been stressed here – is administratively complex: for the retail trade on the one hand, but also for the control of the financial authorities on the other. What we need, therefore, is not a billionaire gift to the food trade, to the large chains – BILLA, Mercury and the like – but what we actually need is a reduction in wage and income tax and/or social security contributions to relieve the lower and medium incomes. This has an immediate effect, it has a lasting effect, and with a tax reduction of 3.5 billion €, we could give an average of 700 € per year to each Austrian. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, have strangled the whole thing, because you have always called for this tax reduction, also a benefit of this tax reduction – but what has now come out? – A gift to the food chains in billions! We also do not want people to depend on the “good” of the food chains, starting with SPAR, BILLA and the like. And who is to finance this tax reduction? And then I come back to social justice: All this is to be financed from taxes that hit the rich and the super-rich in the country, because it is not clear why they do not contribute to the financing of the social and educational state! Yes, the mines, the hazelsteiners, and as they all are called, they shall be asked for a case. In our country we are going – at last! – more tax justice, and therefore: Reduction of wage and income tax, but no reduction in VAT on food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24916	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gäßner with 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24937	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, it is very, very ironic of you, if you claim here that we should make a tax reform in order to be able to relieve small and medium-sized incomes. – We would have done this by the SPÖ, only: Who said no to that? – The ÖVP has said no to favour the tax reform, quite clearly! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of the fact that those who are suffering from the price of what is currently being done in Austria experience a discharge. I'll hold it. Ladies and gentlemen are still on the screen and here too, they see exactly who is for a discharge and who is against a discharge. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there have been all kinds of developments. When Professor Felder said that this would be milder for inflation if we reduced VAT on food, it was all at once clear that the BZOs also meant that this would be a good proposal. The BZÖler have now also made the proposal to pay 200 € immediately to all. And then came the wonderful idea of piling to Europe and asking: Yes, please, can we even do that? And here we have heard the opinion of a Commissioner who said: No, we can't. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: We already knew that before!]] This is the private opinion of a Commissioner, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, at a conference on environmental taxation held in Hungary in May of this year, “that, in the sense of protecting poorer families, lower rates of VAT could be applied in the case of basic foods”. This Commissioner now tells us that we must not. From: The 12 percent are a special rate and not a rate of sales. So why can't we? Why did you not ask the Commissioner why there are four or five countries in the European Union, which already have fewer tax rates? Why didn't you ask him why they could, but we didn't? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Why, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, do ten countries of the European Union have a low rate of VAT from home? And I would remind you that Mr Stummvoll has told us here that, of course, operating costs, cost increases have an impact on the price. – Well, then the cost increases are added, Mr. Stummful. Only, on the increased calculated price will VAT be charged. And there are 5 percent all better than 10 percent, Mr. Dummful! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, the communities are always sent forward. Ah, the municipal government – black, unfortunately still – can be so nice in front of the carts of the ÖVP advertising machinery. That's the best thing! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Finanzminister, what did you say to the municipalities when the inheritance tax was abolished, which is also inside the FAG pool? - No one even touched an ear. That's it. The municipalities did not get everything back when it came to the drinking tax. And the Minister of Finance then goes here and has a fee stop. Who cares? - The communities! We didn't get a replacement for that either. So, this is very, very clear, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The most beautiful thing is when Mr Grillitsch comes out as a farmer's horror and says that the flat-rate farmers are now losing 15 million, the wine farmers are now losing 45 million, where he knows very well that these will hold 12 percent. They will keep, so the farmers will lose nothing at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Mr Grillitsch, I would like to make a suggestion on how you could help farmers. There is a Mr Fischler, who is in charge of the Electoral Support Committee for Mr Molterer, who is also working in the Eco-Social Forum. This Mr. Fischler has a consensus here in the House, which says: No genetic engineering in agriculture in Austria. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Fischler acts as a Gen-Lobbyist. And this Mr Fischler pays you €600 000 each year in support. I would think that this €600 000 support should bring you to the Hardfall Commission so that those farmers who have nothing can get something. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Sounds.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, since the BZÖ has fallen once again, I would say that there is a danger that this VAT application will not go through. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Despite everything, I would ask you to think again about whether we should not help people and take measures against the price. A first step could be the decision to reduce VAT on food.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25066	The amendment tabled just now by Mr Gässner, Mr President, is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. As the next speaker, I would like to give to honourable Member Jakob. Auerda's word. He wants to talk for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25093	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you are here in Parliament for a while, it is sad to have to experience a day like today – and I expressly say: to have to experience. It is really not an hour of parliamentarianism, there is also no precise preparation, no careful employment and consideration of the proposals. What happens today is a husch-fush action, as some experts unfortunately said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don’t wonder if in a tomorrow’s newspaper in an article entitled “Budgetary Suicide Commanders” Mrs. Dr. Michaela Seiser, Austrian correspondent for “Frankfurter Allgemeine”, writes: “Austria is playing the tiresome reputation of a solid EU member of the household.” That's all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And one, Mr Gaßner: I urge you, never come out here again and speak for the financial power of the communities! Never again, ever again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what was noised together here, what accusations to the country of Upper Austria, what complaints that the disaster fund would finance too late! This, although so loosely passed over these things as a supposed municipal political speaker of the communities on the part of the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Stay home! I tell you this openly, I am deeply disappointed, for you know very well how much it would happen to your own community. But it doesn't matter, perhaps we will continue to do a good job in the ordinary household, and the country of Upper Austria will pay it again. Some taxpayers pay it, Mr Gaßner! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, then there is the kind claim that what the Commissioner of Brussels gives of himself is not so important, that is perhaps not right, that does not matter either, because we are self-confident in Austria. It may be. The fact is, however, that there is a written statement that an agreement on the part of Brussels cannot be expected. The fact is that, ladies and gentlemen, the drinking tax has been raised several times: There was a Minister of Finance Lacina, whom I greatly appreciated because of his expertise. At the time, he assured us, the local authorities and the local government, in writing that the drinking tax is compatible. What has come out, we know, to the detriment of the communities, ladies and gentlemen: She wasn't durable! Who benefited from it? – None of the consumers, no one at all! Or can you remember that the Seidel beer has somehow become cheaper? Ask Once again, what the brewers cost per kilo before 1995! Why don't you ask me what the half then? Beer has cost, and ask what it costs today! The price of barley, wheat has fallen dramatically, but the prices of beer and other beverages have increased significantly. And we're just the same with the food. I do not accept such a policy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25178	Mr Schultes spoke on an actual amendment. – You know the legal provisions. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25202	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaßner has claimed that the highly honorable chairman of the Eco-Social Forum, Fischler, is the consensus of the House on the genetic engineering issue of desavouier. [[Call the SPÖ:Really claimed!]] – This is a holocaust and honorous! Of course, our President Fischler is completely behind our line because we in Austria do not need genetic engineering, the customer does not want it and the farmers do not want it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This statement, which is submitted to President Fischler, has never happened. These are things that are repeatedly misrepresented from politically deep motives by people from this house, and that is to be pointed out to the most serious.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25255	Mr President, that was not an actual correction, it was a contribution to debate. Mr Weinzinger spoke as the next speaker. – Please, you have the floor for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25279	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the very emotional speech of Mr Jakob Auer, whom I very much appreciate because of his work and also as mayor, and who fears that as mayor he may suffer a disadvantage due to this VAT reduction – of course, not personally, but his community and all the other communities –: [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Right!]] It won't be. What is it really about? – This is a reduction in VAT after months of finding that food, in particular basic food, is becoming increasingly expensive. What does that mean when they get more expensive? – This means that the VAT imposed on it is also increasing. [[Abg. That's how it is!]] In other words, the Minister of Finance has a considerable tax revenue, which he could not expect at all, which he would not expect, if he was a good citizen, at all. Because he does not want our basic food to be more expensive or our prices to be higher overall. But they're getting more expensive! The fuels have become more expensive, we know. Almost everyone needs it, because almost every employee has to go to work. He may also need it for private things. But there you can limit driving, and it is also restricted. Nevertheless, there is considerable additional revenue on VAT from this title. Already months ago, we worked to reduce VAT on basic foods. The loss for the Minister of Finance is not so great, but the loss for the families is huge. You're always talking about 1 billion € in tax failure. What does that mean? – Conversely, this means that we can save the families, the households € 1 billion! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They also say that this would be irresponsible, and I hear again and again that it would be a price reduction. – No, once again, this is not a price reduction, it is a tax reduction. Let's make this clear. I also hear that there should be no transfer of this tax reduction. That is why we have made sure that the corresponding application for price monitoring is in place. This must be possible, and this is also possible, as we have heard from the various companies, and I say to you: that I am deeply sorry, really deeply sorry that we have only a few large food companies and not many small, regionally in the individual countries and districts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the pity, and we didn't stop it, we didn't stop it. There we have to go to prevent this and change that, in turn, we have smaller structures. We also do not need to carve our food through Europe with very large load weights across the area. That would be necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us therefore put this small but effective measure to reduce the cost of living in the field of basic food. You'll see, you'll reap a lot of joy for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25354	The next speaker was Mr Mitterlehner. Also 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25376	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Mr Strache and Mr Hofer, in connection with the reduction in VAT, have quoted me as being passed on in the prices. I would like to ask you if you are already quoting me, then listen to me and pay attention to what I have said and do not stick to the half-truth! For if a tax reduction comes, each commercial undertaking is obliged to pass on the corresponding tax reduction. You just need to read the price law, it's inside. The trading companies have already been quoted, who have said that they will do the same. But the question is – and this is the second open section of the whole –: What's before? Some have observed that there have been price increases before. And the second is: What's next? How sustainable is the price reduction? That's where I've got to ask you: Has one of these large trading companies, one of these large chains, all of which have pledged their promises in the “Kronen Zeitung”, spoken of a price guarantee, a freezing of prices for one year or two years? - No! And why not? – Because this is not compatible with the care of an ordinary merchant – quite logical, because he also has price increases in raw materials, energy, lease and so on. It is therefore quite logical that the price reduction cannot be sustainable. I ask you to listen – and not to read out any contradictions, especially because the previous speaker referred to the poor small and medium-sized enterprises. And Mr Krainer said that there was no problem, they should all report it. Now I'll tell you something. Do you know what they need to do? – All small businesses with less than nine employees must be included on the 1st floor. ==References====External links== Do you know what that means? That's the first Christmas day. They must change on Sunday, although they may not employ any staff. They don't even do that, and when they do, they have to work against the law. Do you know what the changeover costs? – Around 20 to 30 million €. Yeah, that's what you're saying, 'cause it's meated for you. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's wrong!]] And it's up to you if the plants have to deliver 50,000 calculations. They're at the price commission. And what are they for? - For nothing! Now I am telling you something third, which has not yet been addressed today, namely: The EU legislation is not in conformity with the Treaty. But also the Austrian Constitutional Conformity is more than questionable. Why? – You somehow got along, you don’t feel basic food, and if you’re more shopping and richer, you feel it more. Therefore, there is this competence of regulation for the Minister of Finance, and he may then determine what a luxury is. But did you not forget that you have to define in the law what a luxury is? You can't do that at all. If a regulation has no legal coverage, it is not constitutional. Therefore: What you are doing is bureaucratic, administratively difficult, socially unbeatable and unconstitutional. And then, Mr Hofer, please quote me again, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25418	Mr Klubobmann Strache spoke at 4 minutes' speaking time as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25440	Ladies and gentlemen! I felt today that the clubman of the BZÖ is now being guided by an EU Commissioner who apparently determines the line of the BZÖ. This also shows the consequence of the BZÖ, because we already know from other areas that rulers and representatives who represent this group in the public today have already said in the past that they are against an EU constitution, but then voted in Parliament, or have said that they are in favour of a referendum, but have voted against it seven times here in Parliament, or have said that they are against an early enlargement of the EU, but then voted in favour here in Parliament, or have said that they are in favour of Turkey's accession to the European Union and much more, until we want to prevent the Eurofighter, but then happy to vote here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does this have to do with VAT reduction? What does the Eurofighter have to do with it?]] This is a consistent line of the BZÖ to say something different in the public than you live here in the hall. And that is exactly the consequence of your policy: to do the opposite of what you promise. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] You have also shown this very clearly in this example. You have launched a popular desire in Austria, which has already signed thousands of people in which you demand the halving of VAT on basic foods and foodstuffs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everything wrong!]] They collect for a people's desire to sign thousands of people you have once again faced today because you are now being led by the Commission of the European Union. I would say to you that I would have given you at least one courage, not to go to the EU in front of the EU, but to say that we want to get through on this issue and see whether our legal position is the right one or the one that the European Union claims. Our legal position is correct. We have two preferential tax rates, and we know that there are different legal opinions that a tax rate is a special right under the EU Accession Treaty. And that's exactly what it's all about. You should take that out. There are two different legal positions, but you are immediately in line with the EU position and prevent a social relief that many citizens today urgently need. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But for that, you have to bear the responsibility that you deceive the citizens. This would also be just a measure of many necessary measures that we are discussing, and of course the law and the formulation of the application also included that there is official price control, because if I may now give you faith, then you say that trade is not going on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] – Well, then we need to act! That means, then, that you want the trade on the back of the Austrians to be able to run this prize game? That's incredible! They are, in the end, indirectly subject to trade fraud and are not even willing to stop it! This shows a lot more: This shows that either your claims and arguments are wrong here – or that you want to cover it further and support it so that it can continue. That's incredible! If there's an abuse here, you should put it off. Then exactly the official price control would have been the right answer. Then, too, we would finally have the decisive measure of dealing with it if that were true of what you are saying. – I do not put this to trade; quite the contrary: I believe that trade would pass it on, but this official price control would allow it to be controlled and ensured. Mr Mitterlehner, I correctly quoted you. You have also said and given our argument that trade would pass the tax reduction on to the customer. Yes, but what you have wrongly said is that the price will be increased, because on 1.12. the prices for the next year are already being prepared, i.e. there will be costs for trade that could immediately be involved. [[Abg. Hear: Have an idea, Mr. Strache!]] But you just leave that out and don't say it any more. If you stand out from the ÖVP today and believe that you can launch your stories in the direction of farmers: Today, no farmer believes this to be what you have tried in recent weeks to tell the farmers here of untruths. [[Abg. Hornek: But you don't believe at all! You have no idea!]] What already disappointed me was your suggestion according to the motto: If I no longer know, we will send it back to the working group, so back to the committee. That's actually a runaway. The fact that the BZÖ has proved here today is that you are a crasher, that you cannot rely on you in another point and that the political guiley is. They do the opposite of what you have promised and also show that you have no courage on this question. They are obedient to the European Union. I would also like to point out, however, that the basic food has been completely forgotten by you. Water is a basic food and has also been added to point 22. An average household today consumes 400 cubic meters per year, and costs are from 850 to 900 € per year. It can be seen that an average household of at least € 45 to 50 in this area could be saved by water and wastewater alone, which would also be easily controlled by the water plants, which you are preventing today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also show you an example of a single working mother of four children who is fully employed and who, on average, makes eight more or less large purchases per month at the discounter and spends an average of 116 € on their purchases. I brought the shopping paper. On 20.9.2008 she bought by 116 €. Of these, €82.48 have been spent on foods that have been taxed at €8.25. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A halve brings 4,125 €. This all year round means a savings that we could make possible today, from €396 per year, plus €45 to €50 for water and wastewater. This will prevent you from making your decision today if you do not agree. It should also be explained to the citizens what social competence you have, not one!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25561	Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler spoke on an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the rules.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25585	Yes, I do! Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Strache claimed that the demand for a halving of VAT on food was included in Austria's popular desire for the future alliance. – Like so many things you say here, that's also wrong! Mr Strache, you should read the text of popular desire. I can quote him because he's very short. The popular desire is simple and touching: “A price stop for Austria through legal measures that reduce the prices for sprit, food,” “wohnen, heating and medications and keep them at a variable level, as well” – second part – “legislative measures that reduce the incomes of small earners, families,” – they are always yelling, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. Strache: Food! Yeah, that's where we got it! You admit it yourself!]] [[Abg. Strache: You admit it yourself!]] Do you know how many people you're yelling at? – “legislative measures that ensure the income of small earners, families and pensioners and strengthen the purchasing power of the Austrian population.” [[Abg. You admit it! You're making fun of yourself!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is an actual confirmation!]] I'll hold on to this. Contrary to Mr Strache's statements, our popular desire does not include a word of reduction or halve of VAT! With this, all those ten thousand people who have already signed signed have correctly signed – and you, Mr. Strache, are wrong, as so often here in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25682	Next came Mr Hörl's speech. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25703	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! We will not agree to a reduction in VAT, for good reason, because this Faymann tax is, as Mr Van der Bellen has said correctly, the GAU, the biggest accepted nonsense. Anyone who can count one and one together knows that the measure costs summaries, Mr. Strache, but only brittle, brings brocades for those you are supposed to target. [[Abg. Strache: 500 € Redemption are “Broams”?]] Whoever buys a lot of expensive food, Mr. Strache, will benefit a lot, who has to buy the cheapest food anyway, will have almost nothing of it. Is the social policy of Faymann and Strache? [[Abg. Strache: 500 € discharge for the families to describe as bubblings, that is social cold!]] What will happen instead of a discharge of the poorer sections of the population: The public hands, the countries and communities will lose a lot. It will be similar to the drink tax – I am a host myself – which consumers have hardly noticed, but which has put many communities in a bad way. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Did you pass it on?]] Is this the rural policy, Mr Faymann? With the amendment of the Price Act a huge red tape sample will be born, price controllers and crazy reporting rules will be introduced. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Tell us: Have you passed the removal of the drinking tax? Did you pass this on, Mr. Wirt?]] You, Mr Faymann, and you, Mr Strache, have no confidence in trade and the economy. Many small rapists are poor with you, will go down in the administrative and reporting effort. We have enough of that, we can give up on it. When we look at our Minister Faymann, when we look under the "Faynights hat", we actually don't see the fighter for the poor, but we see a minister who, for example, is unloving, because not socialist ASFINAG boards with millions of amounts have sent to the desert. The gentlemen are going to walk with millions in the bag today, live in Saus and Braus and laugh at the normal working people. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There was nothing too expensive for you, Mr Faymann, there was no attempt to get the rulers to work or to throw them out without payment. Is that what the proverbial little man understands? How serious it is to you, Federal Minister Faymann, with concrete work in your Federal Ministry, is also seen at the cable car office. You were unable to equip them properly, you were not able to bring lawyers who were turning the Däumchen Defense Ministry to the cable car office. Many major, important projects in rural areas, in the Alps are waiting and waiting for them to be completed. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Did you pass on the removal of the drinking tax?]] Last but not least, Mr Faymann, because you are talking about our Members in such a blatant way, because you are talking about the Sunday “press hour”. You have requested a special meeting – and you were not here, Mr. Cap, and your Federal Chancellor was in Venice! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I'm really worried. Did you actually give a ban on the German Chancellor Gusenbauer? I'm worried about Mr Gusenbauer. One beautiful day we will find him dried up in the roof chair of the Federal Chancellor's Office – and you don't even notice. So, Mr. Faymann, Mr. Strache, come at your own door. I brought you the tools. Look at your own door! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25834	I'm just waiting for a little more rest. Then the next speaker is called. Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Gäßner to speak. Mr deputies, you know the rules. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25868	Madam President. Mr Auer said I shouldn't talk here anymore. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: But yes!]] Mr. Hörl has claimed that the drinking tax has not been passed on... Yes, you have said that. [[Abg. Hörl: Who said that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He said he didn't pass it on!]] I am actually correct that the trade has passed on the drink tax reduction very well, otherwise the communities would not have to return to them now the beverage tax they had taken before. That's how it looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25945	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, we have not been much closer today. I'm also looking for a little more peace, so you can track everything a little bit better. I call Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e25976	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner, if you say here that the money costs to change the price signs, that's right. But I don't understand why you never complained before. If in the supermarkets there is money to hang up signs with higher prices, which we all experienced last year, I don't understand why suddenly there should be no money to hang up signs at lower prices. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I can submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The whole issue is therefore purely technical changes and legal corrections. [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: So a pussy!]] Otherwise, I can say that I think it is very good that Werner Faymannsich has decided not to make an election promise, what the SPÖ wants to do after the election, but what it wants to do before the election, because today everyone here can see who is here to abolish, for example, the tuition fees, and who does not, but who is for that food to be cheaper, and who does not. [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: A pussy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: A pussy!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e26098	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Now comes Mr Mag. Stadler. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e26155	Madam President. Yes, my colleague, I know, but he's not the only one. They broke this up in the street Junta. Whenever the stadler comes, they all run out of the door. Ladies and gentlemen! - Yeah, he's still there, he's come back in. [[In calls is on Abg. It's just a note that can be seen behind the bank lines.]] And since I've just got you in the visor: Schuster, stay with your performance! Stache, stay with your tooth prosthetics!, I would have said soon. If you listen to this, ladies and gentlemen, as the great entrepreneur Hofer is teaching here about transactions in the companies – he knows exactly how the price is going, it is quite simple – if I look at Mr. Zahntechniker out of service, who was actually an entrepreneur in the short term, but not really successful – then he did it together with the Gernot Rumpold, and today this is a security company that sends Söldner to Iraq, so also a very strange company, also such a strange company; yes, yes, in Burgenland it has even been founded even if I have this right in mind – then all this is super-artist, all super-entrepreneurship, heavy workers when you hear it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and ÖVP]] Look, Josef Cap, now you've seen what's going on out of your lap dog. He comes out and knocks out loud. He sounded loud, but unfortunately he didn't do it. Unfortunately, he does. You need to teach him a lot more. The Freedom Academy has recruited them, now you have to take him to the Renner Institute, because so, ladies and gentlemen, that won't happen. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] The only thing that remains is rhythmic chatter when the Fayman says anything. Then they are all at rhythmic claps, as at the KPdSU Party Day. They've already rang in there, the liberals. I don't know where they learned it so fast. At least not with us, ladies and gentlemen. At our time, it has not yet been possible for every nonsense to organize a rhythmic chat, as you do now. [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] I'm already on the matter, ladies and gentlemen. When I look at Mr. Strache – the Klubobmann Strache; Excuse me, he does not want to be dictated – so if I look at the fact that "Excellence" comes out of here and says that you should simply ignore what the European Union has in primary law, then the purest political-voodoo is. We simply pretend that the VAT Directive does not exist, then there is no such thing as it is! The effort to look at the VAT Directive is not being made. I do not even need to ask a Commissioner about this, and whether it is red, black or otherwise is actually sausage. The text of the VAT Directive clearly says that only two sentences are allowed. This is Voodoo. We don't even need to look at that. We simply act as if the European Union did not exist at all, then there is no such thing as it is. That is what Mr Strache really believes. That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another task for the Renner Institute. You have to teach a little bit that you have to take note of political facts. He doesn't make it that easy. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why did the Haider ask? The Haider asked!]] Mr. Faymann, look, Mr. Faymann... Yes, yes, I know, you don't want to hear that you're sitting on Joseph Cap's lap, you don't want to hear that you've taken over the pantyhose role there. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] And so that the animal kingdom is rounded off, I now see all day to Mr. Faymann how he is up there the Donald Duck and how there is a new red-blue axis forming down there, although he excludes it on television. Federal Minister Faymann, you're on television, saying you never want to cool with them, because these are the "smooth children" of this republic, which you don't want to have anything to do with, but they use them on every occasion when they're supposed to help you out of the patch. – What is the counter-performance for this? Mr Strache cannot tell me, because he does not know, he is just glad that he is allowed to sit inside. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But you, Mr Faymann, may be able to tell me what the return is. No one understands this outside, ladies and gentlemen, because this regulation leaves only frustration. This is the frustrated consumer, because he will have nothing of this VAT reduction, he has nothing of it. It's the frustrated voters, 'cause he's been fooled again. At the choice, it will be clear that the VAT Directive is, after all, a VAT directive. And then nothing was, then we go home again, then we pretended we would have wanted it anyway, didn't we, Federal Minister Faymann? Then the whole loyal look in the style of Donald Duck does not use anything. If you want more frustration, it's the dealers. The dealers have to change, have a lot of effort and bureaucracy, no one will pay them that – again frustrated! We also have a frustrated budget, because then there is no money for real tax reliefs. Lauter Frustrierte – except for the large food companies and, of course, Werner Faymann! Werner Faymann needs this story exactly until the closing of the election cells at 5 p.m. on next Sunday. After that, he is no longer interested in the whole scheme, ladies and gentlemen. That's the whole background of this story. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] This is simply the proof that it was right to get Norbert Steger off the lap of socialist legs in 1986. Now, however, he is sitting there voluntarily, and he likes to be hopped on it! But we will also succeed in this, and he will be brought down again, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] If you believe, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, dear comrades of the FPÖ, if you believe that you are going through this permanently with the voters then deceive yourself miles away! [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] So stupid is not a voters that he will not see through this game in the long run. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This game is easy to see through, this game is easy to see through. They are starting today to abuse the FPÖ again, as it was already abused by the Socialists under Norbert Steger. It's a shame that you're making this happen. It's a shame that you're using the voters to do this. That is why I am now taking the opportunity to say to the voters who are watching me for the last time before the next election Sunday: Attention: Whoever chooses blue actually chooses red! Whoever chooses blue, chooses red! – This should be written to voters in the main book. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This vote today proves that election betrayal is practiced here by those who claim to have leased honesty and sincerity.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e26284	Mr Klubobmann Strache referred to an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the rules. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e26308	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler has claimed that my dental laboratory Strache GmbH should have been Mr Rumpold's partner. – That is unfair and is not true! Rather, it is true that I was also a partner of an advertising agency, in which I had 25 percent of the shares and subsequently resigned that this company was later transformed into a security company, but with which I had nothing to do with as a shareholder. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] Another actual correction, so to speak, in the Annex: If, then the SPÖ sits on the floor of the FPÖ, as we can judge – and the BZÖ on the lap of the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e26349	Mr Klubobmann, that the second part was no longer an actual correction, probably agrees with the entire House. Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e26378	Madam President. High house! A few words have been made here, which should not be contradicted. If you think about what individual speakers of the ÖVP have said here, you have to conclude that they assume that trade is basically made up of Ganoven and tax evaders. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you think so, then you have to ask yourself the question – we can then ask them at every tax debate, because the tax evasion is just a matter – whether taxes have any meaning at all. The confidence you have in your trade, as you say, is zero. I note here – and also all those who watch and belong to the trade – that you are of the ÖVP of this opinion: These are loud lawbreakers, and it can be expected that they will not pass on a tax reduction. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] – This is to be determined in peace once and for all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, We naturally expect the BZÖ to vote with the EIA and with the Greens against the halving of VAT. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, we don't!]] We'll see. In any case, we expect your speech and a statement by Haiders in Carinthia have indicated this. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Have you not listened? Recital! Didn't you come?]] If that is the case, we will see what the agreements are. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They weren't there at all!]] If the non-successful ÖVP Carinthia should perhaps return to Haider as the head of state on occasion or if perhaps after the 28th century. On September the two parties ÖVP and BZÖ might be looking for a third party next to each other, one will observe this closely. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But something must be, because Jörg Haider alone is not enough for Commissioner Kovács to reply to his letter with this kind of letter. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A Social Democratic!]] As support in the election campaign, it is irrelevant, just a single opinion of a Commissioner, and it does not deal legally with anything; that is absolutely clear – I will say so at the same time – and it is in fact also contrary to the directives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbachtner]] [[To Minister Bank:]] Because you're knocking the table in the back there with your hand: By hand, you probably made x-time calls with Commissioner Kovács so that this letter will come. [[Cheerfulness at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] This is to be noted in all clarity. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] If we look at this, please, in the ‘Official Journal of the European Union’, we have very specific provisions here. I have a copy with it, which is under “reduced tax rates” in kind. 98 notes: “Member States can apply one or two reduced tax rates” – no, we know that anyway. The reduced rates shall be ‘only applicable to the supplies of goods and services of the categories listed in Annex III’. Then let us look at Annex III, which is under point 1: ‘Food and feed (including beverages, alcoholic beverages excluded)’. That means for the famous 12 percent from the yard: It is an alcoholic drink, which is therefore not a reduced rate of VAT, it is an intermediate rate. [[Abg. Listen, listen!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] They consciously provide the public with the untruth! You have to say this in all clarity. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bitch.]] For those who want to read BZÖ brochures at all – there should be some – I recommend the following. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] It is here under the heading “Dienetwegen Österreich” – in fact the indifferent “meineutweg” should stand on it, but good – under point 2: [[Sadness at SPÖ and FPÖ]] ‘Fight against inflation’ means a ‘reduction of VAT on basic foods’. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a total package!]] And in the resolution – I also have it – it says: Kärntner Landesgoverung decided with the votes of BZÖ and SPÖ, where the halving of VAT on food is required. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] My question to the BZÖ is therefore: What do you do if you write such brochures or make such decisions? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you don't want to... refer back!]] Don't you inquire before? Calls You have not been to the EU before? Calls It is not until the EU when Mr Molterer and Mr Schüssel say: Call the EU!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is the time then given? Are you really just a courtyard, a carpet prejudicer of the ÖVP? Is that really the case? [[Cheerfulness at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] - Then you should confess that right now! Then you should get out of here and say it clearly. [[Abg. Scheibner: On your carpet...!]] Before I close, a last thought – I can see how the mood at the ÖVP builds up here. I also ask you, with the cameras, to make very close recordings of the Christian-Social ÖVP when you break out in jubilation that you need it to people who urgently need relief when buying food, who need it urgently and do not have to look like you do not have to, what it costs – if you ever go shopping alone at all – but need it urgently and really need it to appear cold, heartless and harsh here, then still rejoice and rejoice. [[Call the ÖVP:Gerne!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: The ORF works at the push of a button, gal!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Director's instructions for the ORF!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] I wish you all the best if you then stand in the confessional and have to confess it – out of Christian conviction!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e26631	It now has Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer to speak. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] – Mr Vice-Chancellor, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e26659	Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what you have applauded for now? [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Down taxes!]] – Obviously not! [[Abg. May. Worm:... the Master Teacher!]] In such a situation, it is obviously possible that the SPÖ can simply be used here if the EU is made a scapegoat just because it fits one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] Do you know what you said here? – You simply take a Commissioner’s opinion as his private opinion, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know what you're doing here? [[New fierce calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – You are just in the process of provoking the anti-EU vote in a way that I have never experienced in this House. Is that really your responsibility? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you really feel comfortable when you are having a discussion here that is really questioning something we have been fighting for years together for? [[Abg. Parnigoni: You don't have...! Then get up!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Are you really feeling comfortable, ladies and gentlemen? Do you really feel comfortable when the money is obviously abolished in this House? Ladies and gentlemen, do you really feel comfortable deciding on a measure by which President Küberl says she is not socially safe at all? Do you really feel comfortable today ensuring that Parliament is actually contributing to political starkness? [[Abg. Strache: Do you really feel that you want to grant €500 in discharge to the middle class in 2010?]] [[Further calls.]] Is that what you really want? - I'm just asking you to think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e26778	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Van der Bellen. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e26800	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Can we get down a little? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Valium!]] [[Further calls.]] . I try to draw a brief summary from this agenda for myself personally. The essential thing seems to me that the majority of Parliament is a sham, a red and blue solution to a real problem – namely: How do we help people deal with the nuisance? –, not agreed. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This is a sham solution that sounds good, which, I think, sounds really good for many people who are not familiar with the situation, but who did not do anything and is sage. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It will probably be more than 10 percent! Of 15 percent, there can be no talk at all!]] She wouldn't have done anything, but the people would have noticed it only after the elections. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That is why you are voting against the award ceremony!]] People would have noticed this only after the elections; in the meantime the elections are over, the opportunistic calculation would have gone up in so far. But it comforts me that, obviously, even in pre-election periods – and the elections are on Sunday – economic sense at least has a chance with the majority of this House. Mr. Cap, just because someone else considers you to be a different political opinion, and because someone believes that this measure is completely inappropriate for solving a real social problem, therefore you do not need to agree with anyone's social conscience, Christian attitude or whatever. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What solution do you have?]] I really think it's deep! [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Whether this would have been in accordance with EU rules or not, I personally find it relatively secondary. It could have been done if it had made economic and social policy sense in Austria and could have come to terms with how the ECJ, the European Court of Justice, one day decides on a disagreement between the Commission and the Federal Government. You don't have to get caught up in that, I think. But what is depressing me – well, not depressed; I have already been involved a lot – is what irritates me, with which we are wasting time here in this so-called High House in view of the great challenges. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Sunday will be already depressive!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Cap, we have been able to debate for eight months the details of a wage and income tax reduction in Austria. We didn't spend half a day with it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap strongly points towards ÖVP.]] You, Mr Cap, now point to the others. Who opened the discussion? – Now I really start to get angry! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Who was that, if not German chancellor Gusenbauer? – Oh, my God, you’re talking about the ÖVP saying no at the time! Who has prevented you from presenting a concept of how to help the lower income? [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Who has prevented you from using a little brain narrow for how to help first the middle, pay the wage and income tax and have suffered enough under the cold progression, and those people who earn so little that they don't pay any wage and income tax at all? – To this day, you have remained guilty of this concept! [[Abg. You voted against that! You voted against the requests!]] You know, I don't think so socially. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes, yes!]] How you interpret this is your thing. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As regards the oil price and how we help people get out of the oil price trap: Did we deal with this here in the high house? - Not really. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But you agree with the ÖVP!]] The motion for a resolution here, motion for a resolution there; I hope it will be better after the elections. [[Abg. Riepl: The Minister of Finance is behind you!]] But what you have offered here, apologise... [[Abg. Dr. Cap again points towards ÖVP.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: Jealous!]] With insulting comments to respond... [[Abg. Dr. Cap makes a gesture of denial.]] That's very insulting. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not insulting!]] With just insulting comments to respond to the fact that others are of different opinion – I am in fact also of a different opinion! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: This is a description of values...!]] Do you take note of that? You want to meet me with a social conscience, right? – Thank you many times! [[Abg. Dr. Cap:... Christian values!]] Then I know what I'm doing with you!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27074	For the first time, Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery urgently request to distance themselves from any rallys. [[Call the ÖVP: That was right!]] Otherwise I would have to let the gallery be cleared up, but of course we don't want to. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Unrest in the hall.]] I will not enter the voting process until there is no real peace. We have some extensive and complicated votes here. We shall come to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. We shall first proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues to refer request 893/A back to the Financial Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Is that the award?]] I am looking for the two scribes to come to me and help me count. [[Call the ÖVP. That's the majority!]] - That's the majority. This request for referral has been accepted. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This throws a special light on the greens to prevent a prize award and price control!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 924/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, contains a draft law on a federal law amending the 1994 VAT Act. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues tabled an amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I would like to refer immediately to the draft law contained in the proposal for a Initiative 924/A, together with the title and receipt of the amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign of acknowledgment. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: 300 million!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues to refer request 892/A back to the Financial Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Greens don't want a award!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Expensive Medicines of Bartenstein! A master achievement!]] [[Abg. Straw: And the people of the disabled fall by the rust.]] [[Further calls.]] [[21:40:01]] 13. Question by Mr Wilhelm Haberzettl, Mr Josef Bucher, Members of the Federal Law amending the Income Tax Act 1988 (915/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27243	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Financial Committee had a period of up to 23 years. ==References====External links== Oral reporting is not required. We are therefore going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27277	Madam President. High house! There is an amendment to the 2007 travel novel. We have already rejected these changes in travel costs in the previous year, and that is why we are opposed to them. There have been, or have existed, legal concerns; nothing has changed on these concerns in principle. At the time, it was about the fact that the daily money was simply transferred from a section of the Income Tax Act – if I remember correctly – to § 26 – in § 3. I see no reason why the extension, which is the subject-matter of this request, namely the extension to the amounts of the budget, should be an act which does not also raise constitutional concerns. I can still remember that when we discussed these travel expenses innovations in committee, Mr. Col. stupid – he is not here now – meant: Well, as far as these constitutional concerns, which Professor Werner Doralt said at the time, are concerned, there will be a number of counter-respects. – To this day, no counter-respect has come. By the way, this travel cost innovation was limited by the end of 2009, for good reason. This time-limit is to end with this change now – and of course the question to the applicants Haberzettl and Bucher is already asking why you want to withdraw from this time-limit. I should like to remind you of what Mr Matznetter explained to us at the time. Matznetter said that by the end of 2009, the social partners had sufficient opportunity to reorganise travel costs, just in collective agreements. Therefore: Now, Mr Haberzettl, in particular Mr Haberzettl, do you have any confidence in the social partners? Is this a declaration of bankruptcy by the social partners? How do you see that? We in the Green Club will certainly not agree with such a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27322	Next, Mr Haberzettl. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27344	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Members of the Federal Government! I should like to begin by submitting an application which has mainly grammatical and legal corrections on the subject. [[Quoted print version removed]] I can make this request and I would like to comment briefly on it...
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27387	Mr deputies, you have to make a literal request because it is not distributed. That means, please leave point 3.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27402	Then I'll have the 4th. Post point: 4. After Z 4, the following Z 5 is added: ‘5. The following section 135 is added after § 134: , Section 135. § 3 para. 1 Z 16b and § 124b as amended by the BGBl I Act No. xxx/2008 will start with 1. January 2009 in force.’’ That would be the amendments. Now I should like to comment briefly on the comments made by my predecessor and say: We do not have the problem of lack of self-confidence, as he said, but rather a problem with inflation development, and therefore we want to do everything we can to ensure that the Members concerned, who are still subject to additional burdens in the course of their work, are not subject to any tax burden, because that is really not necessary; therefore this regulation. If there are concerns, then we will try to clear them out, but ultimately, as I believe, it is now a priority to ensure that these fellow Members pay for their added effort – and therefore this initiative too.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27454	The amendment just tabled has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27524	I am already drawing attention – it is well known that several amendments will be tabled – that this vote, as the Croquis will not yet be finished, will also be moved at a later date. The next item is Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27548	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the commitment in individual bank series, you can also see what is going on here today. I can't imagine that even one of you can really understand what's going to be decided here or what's inside these individual sections. On the contrary, Mr Bucher will then also make an amendment which deals with overtime, so that not five hours, but ten hours of tax are to be tax-free. As far as the funds are concerned, we should, as I think, once more generally consider – not only the budgets, but also the travel costs – whether it is in the case of a tax reform to relieve people, workers in our country – if we can still afford such a one – that there is no possibility of reorganising these travel costs. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's a good question!]] It is not about that we have some of these measures – for example, the kilometers of travel between the apartment and the construction site – with 31. In December 2009, it was intended to serve as a temporary basis for the debate on a tax reform, as part of the presentation of individual concepts for the tax reform, to consider whether we can make improvements, for example at the Pendlerpauschale et cetera. You have to continue to develop this, you can and must not stand on a stand. There is nothing to do with simply exempting the amount of income for a group, but there is a need for better action to enable workers who are forced to travel to the service or to travel from their home to a construction site or to a service office to actually help. We are prepared by the EIA to relieve workers, we are willing to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises, and we will introduce our ideas as employee representatives in tax reform, but also, of course, as an overall EIA. I hope you have more creative ideas than those we have heard from you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27583	The next item is Mr Weinzinger. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27606	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! So let's move it out again – another year! And the trigger for the nocturnal is then taxed again. – That would be a very small step that could easily be taken. I know that this is not an overall reform, and I also know that our tax law needs to be subject to greater reform. Yes, I know that this is necessary – even in view of the enormous difficulties in calculating wages and all that belongs to it, but nevertheless: That would be a real discharge! Therefore: Let's do this! It is a small step, a small dash only – and we have relieved those who urgently need a new regulation in paybacks. In this sense, I say that we will vote in favour of this request by the Freedom Party, as will the amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27634	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 5 minutes desired speaking time. Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the BZÖ has an overall 7 minute residence period. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27658	Madam President. I've been wondering before and I won't need more than a minute. The subject of travel costs novels is, I think, sufficiently explained. Mr Rossmann asked for a statement before. – You have now received them from Mr Haberzettl. That was enough, I think. However, on the part of our group, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also propose an amendment by Mr Bucher, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, Dolinschek, colleagues on Amendment 915/A by Mr Wilhelm Haberzettl, Mr Josef Bucher, Mr Colleagues concerning a federal law, I would like to explain in the key points with which the Income Tax Act is amended in 1988. In this amendment we have provided for a tax bonus of €200, additional € 50 for children and the establishment of a heating compensation fund not only for pensioners, but for all the citizens of our country. I should also like to make another amendment. Amendment Mrs Bucher, Dr. Stummvoll, colleagues on the request of Members Wilhelm Haberzettl, Josef Bucher, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988 (915/A). The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: 1. After Z 2 the following Z 3 is inserted: ‘3. § 68 para. 2 reads: ‘(2) In addition to par. 1 supplement for the first ten overtimes per month to a maximum of 50 per cent of the basic wage, but not more than € 86 per month tax-free.” 2. Paragraphs 3 and 4 so far are referred to as ‘4’ and ‘5’. 3rd. In Z 5 (new), the last sentence is as follows: “ §§ 68 para. 2 and 124b Z 140 as amended by the BGBl I Act No. xxx/2008 will start with 1. January 2009 shall enter into force.” This is an effective support for the voluntary, performance-oriented people in our country who receive a corresponding tax exemption for their overtime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e27776	The motion for a resolution, which has just been tabled, and the two amendments – one explained in the key points and distributed accordingly, the other orally – are properly supported and therefore included in the negotiations. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28119	It has already been announced that the vote will take place at a later date. I note that no one has spoken on this item on the agenda. The debate is closed. We are continuing to complete the agenda. [[21:54:23]] 14. Point Request by Mr Josef Broukal, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Dr. Kurt Grünewald, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Law on the Organisation of the Universities and their Studies (University Law 2002), the Federal Law on the Organisation of Educational Universities and their Studies (Hochschulegesetz 2005) and the Federal Law on the Grant of Study Grants and Other Studienförderung (Study Funding Act 1992) (890/A) 15. Point Request by Mr Josef Broukal, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Dr. Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on better financial facilities of universities (891/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28183	We now come to points 14 and 15 of the agenda. With regard to these applications, a period of up to 23 years was granted to the Scientific Committee. ==References====External links== There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First, Mrs. Dr. Karl's speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28217	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens! Today is truly a very special day in the history of Parliament – not only because today billions are to be thrown out of Jux and Tollery to the window. It is also a special day because, for the first time in the history of the Second Republic, three parties – SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens – have been shown to adopt a decision on higher education policy. [[Abg. Broukal: Oh!]] Today, they say goodbye to the future of our young people who have a right to good conditions – the conditions for which we are responsible in the House. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Broukal: Yes, you would have created it in recent years!]] That is why there is a need for more complex legislation, such as this, review procedures, discussions and negotiations. You know, people have a right to well thought-out and discussed legal initiatives and not to demonstrable Husch-Puff actions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Police Law! Constitutional change!]] And what are you doing? – They take the future of our universities negligently and against better knowledge, while at the same time working on the decline of political culture in this country. You will also have to take responsibility for the damage you are causing to political culture and to Austrian universities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Enjoy!]] And claim You would not have been alerted to the negative consequences of your applications for our universities. On several occasions, you have been informed by the university rectors, professors and also of the Austrian high school that the current application for the amendment of the university law is not sufficiently reflected in order to avoid damage from the universities. [[Abg. Broukal: Think about the damage you have done!]] For example, the University Conference at an extraordinary plenary session on Monday this week asked the National Council not to decide on this request before the forthcoming National Council election. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The link between a large lack of study contributions and the abolition of access restrictions in certain subjects will create an unsustainable situation, according to the decision of the University Conference. [[Abg. Broukal: Really?]] – You should know that, Mr Broukal. [[Abg. Broukal: I know him, but I don't think he is...!]] In addition, the chairmen also received support from the representatives of the Council of Science, Research and the University of Applied Sciences. The legitimate criticism of the measures concerned has been and is unfortunately simply erased from the table by you against better knowledge. For example, it is negated that, for good reason, there is no single country in Europe, which does not include both tuition fees and access restrictions. For example, as the Constitutional Lawyer Walter Berka, also a member of the Science Council, says Austria, through the planned measures to the Provincial Railway Station, where only those students who otherwise find no place to study would land. [[Abg. Broukal: How much does he get... from the ministry for this every month? Payed expertise is that!]] Is it really what you want from universities? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: What are you talking about? From medicine...?]] – You know, Mr Broukal, I can tell you what Mr Graf wants: more German students. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] – Please read his letter from Parliament. In doing so, he expressly justified the abolition of restrictions on access by removing the “excessive discrimination against German students”. But this is amazing because it is when we place the ÖVP election posters...– Sorry! – read the FPÖ election posters, means: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can't read those of the ÖVP! There's so much text!]] Now it's about us Austrians! – Please, what is the FPÖ about at all? To the Austrians or to the Germans? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should also like to remind you of the following: We have heard of the Convention refugees today. You will try to put in a motion for an amendment that will cause more confusion than anything else. The reference to the Geneva Convention on Refugees is either empty, just as you have provided for in the amendment, or one could interpret it in such a way as to have a right of national equal treatment in access to the profession. Is it really what you wanted to do with this amendment? Finally, I should like to make a request to improve the financing of universities. [[Quoted print version removed]] You know, this is responsible higher education policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28472	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28554	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Kuntzl. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28575	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course I can calm you down. Today, we will not take any action out of Jux and Tollery that endangers universities, but quite the contrary: Today, after mature considerations, we will decide with the greatest sense of responsibility to launch a good future for universities. On the one hand, we will abolish the tuition fees that have actually been shown for a number of years now in terms of access to universities, and not just – that would be reason enough! – for lower social strata, no, even deep into the middle class. I've been talking to a gentleman who is a folk school director, earns €2,500 a month and has three children who study. So he pays € 2 200 a year to study fees. That's almost a monthly income, that's a lot of money. I therefore believe that it is an essential discharge that will bring this freedom of access to universities. [[Abg. Smoking Call: I assume the children are entitled to study grants!]] The universities should, of course, be replaced by the withdrawal of these tuition fees. In addition to this very gratifying step that we will most likely be able to abolish the tuition fees today, we will decide on a whole package of important measures for universities, which will lead to a good future for universities and which will mean an end to the time when universities have been starved. In December of 2007, we decided here in the House unanimously that the university budget should be almost doubled, but since then there has been nothing left to hear from Mr. Molterer and Mr. Hahn. Then we had to find that Minister Molterer plans not to make additional money available to universities, but rather to budget €34.9 million for universities. At the latest, that was the point we knew: We have to take this into consideration now, and we have to act. Today, we want to decide that the university budgets will be increased by €200 million annually until we reach 2% of the gross domestic product. A next important step is that young people will be able to choose again those courses of study that are not available to them today. Access restrictions are abolished. You'd be running 31 anyway. ==References== We prefer this: There will be no more restrictions on access as early as the winter semester 2009. There will be transitional provisions in the fields of medicine and psychology; the additional costs incurred by universities are to be reimbursed. The technical colleges are to be better equipped – a next step that is particularly important, as no increase has been made here since 2000. It is also intended to make it possible for technical colleges to give up tuition fees, and also for the vocational colleges, which they have not been able to do for a long time, to increase the salaries of the employees there. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank two colleagues, with whom I have been able to work particularly intensively in recent years: Thanks to Mr Erwin Niederwieser and thanks to Mr Josef Broukal. Unfortunately, both of you don't register anymore, which makes me very sorry personally. I would like to thank you both for the particularly good cooperation in recent years. What we will decide today is our common success, but it really is your success!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28628	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28649	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Dear spectators at the gallery and at home! I can do it briefly, as my speaking time is very limited. In order to abolish the study contributions, as planned by Red, Blue and Green, I must say that we will certainly not agree to this, as the study contributions are a social steering measure. [[Abg. Schopf: That's the reason!]] I can assume that the BZÖ's access to this subject is known to the present Members. For the spectators at home and at the gallery, I can refer to the website “www.3musketieren.at” where details can be read. Furthermore, as regards the other applications, I must say that we are, of course, in favour of a corresponding addition of universities and colleges – no question, we will also support that. However, I have to use the rest of the time to make a request referring to the increased family aid decided today, because it has not been taken into account that this increase in family support has a negative impact on the calculation of the study aid. – This is therefore a contribution from the BZÖ in order to protect the beneficiaries of study aid from negative effects. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28720	The amendment which has just been tabled is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28796	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28817	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear colleague Dr. Karl, it is incredibly difficult to debate with a party that has so bitten itself in omnipotent and omniscience fantasies that she simply does not perceive and cannot perceive the real policy at universities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it is really high time for a trend change to look into the truth. You know, in the OECD area, the number of students has increased by 40 percent within 10 years, in Austria by 4 percent. Education budgets are rising in all OECD countries, and in Austria they are stagnating, as measured by GDP they are even falling. In other words, Austria needs more students to join it, and it does not need under-doed universities that are internationally competitive. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You didn't take care of it! The figures say the opposite. Therefore: That's what we want. I shall put in the first amendment tabled in order to make it so understandable to all, so that campaigns are finally exposed to the decline of universities. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28891	Mr deputies, you can wait a moment because we have discrepancies as far as the requests are concerned. [[Abg. Broukal: But now you have to stop the clock, Madam President!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Stop the clock!]] You are submitting an amendment. Did we get that right? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald is aware of this.]] But which is distributed? [[Abg. Dr Graf: You have to answer that, Madam President!]] Just a second. – Return! We have received the right amendment. May I ask you to start again so that the application is made properly. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e28950	Good. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would be surprised, Mrs Karl, if these budget increases were not to taste the universities. That would be the first time. We want to open up access to studies to wider sections of the population. That is what the OECD requires. – I am surprised that the light now shines at the speaker’s desk, because I haven’t spoken for more than 3 minutes until now. – We also want to guarantee the universities better resources. And something else: What's being said here is already an insanity. When Minister Hahn performs in the press on the occasion of our request: “Next, I expect the abolition of the notes and the liberation from the Matura as an access requirement. You have to be consistent when you’re stupid.” – Citing. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Mr President of the University Conference, Mr Badelt, yesterday, as part of his opinion on current fields of action, Mr Badelt also called for the following – I quote – funding of universities: Promotion of alternative ways to study. - Quote. Very stupid, Mr. Rektor! – Badelt has also called for collective agreements to increase study capacities. [[Federal Minister Dr. Hahn: He certainly did not demand the abolition of the tuition fees!]] And on TV, Badelt said that the abolition of tuition fees for him is not that bad. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Hahn.]] He said that! I would also like to say: This must not become a threat scenario, but it is also an opportunity to understand that we have to take. With another amendment, I try to make this even clearer. There are editorial improvements and it is made clear that refugees are exempt from the tuition fees in accordance with the Geneva Convention. If you don't want to understand that, you'll never understand. But it is! It also describes how the access schemes or the increases in students in the subjects of medicine and psychology are to be changed by 2012. And it is also ensured that the universities of the cancellation of fees will be reintroduced. Another thing: If questions are asked in a survey by the Fessel Institute on behalf of the Science Department, in which everyone knows how the answers must be heard, this is a shame for a science body to issue such questions at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also a shame for a renowned institute to ask such questions by telephone, because only nonsense can come out. It says, for example, that no one is no longer examining that since the study fees are collected, all are studying rapidly. And then the question is: Do you want the students to continue paying the very moderate contributions anyway, or do not want to turn off the “gas” as taxpayers of these lazy, slowly studying students, or so. - That's an insanity, that's the naked insanity! [[Abg. Broukal: These are truly “scientific” questions as worthy of such a science minister!]] Yes, a ‘scientificly well-founded question’, in which it reads: Do you know that a medical student costs €40,000? - That's a nonsense! One cannot divide the budget costs of the medical universities by the number of students. There's nonsense coming out! The universities work only 30 percent for teaching. People work in patient care for the country. It's just nonsense coming out! But that's how you argue. I believe – and I have also talked to rectors – that we are taking advantage of the opportunity and will jointly monitor these motions for resolutions in such a way that a new government will do something for universities, which should have been done for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29062	Mr Grünewald has just tabled the amendment tabled by Mr Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr. Grünewald, which is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Next, Mr. Dr. Rasinger will be speaking at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29086	Madam President. High house! What we are experiencing here today is not a star hour with God. I would call it a black day. Mr Grünewald, you are a professor and today you have judged the Minister relatively harshly: I'm sorry, don't you think so? – I have to tell you: The expansion of the number of medical students by 60 percent is a shame. This is a health-political insanity, it's unthinkable – and it's not responsible. How did you even get that number? Why didn't you write 4,000 or 5,000? Do you even know that we are training two and a half times as many as Germany? Mr Graf, you are more or less the cause of this nonsense. Mr Badelt said: First, think; after the election you will have to change that! It is not technically feasible, and you, Mr Grünewald, know this as a professor at the University of Innsbruck. It's not feasible because we don't have enough patients for it. Do you really want 20 or 30 students to go to a patient? Do you really want that? Faith You really think the Americans are so stupid, and five times fewer students, even though they get $20,000 for it? Faith You really think they're so stupid? [[Abg. Oberhauser: We also have more hospitals and better health care!]] Faith Do you really think that the Germans are so stupid and reject 40,000 students so that only 10,000 can study? And in Austria is everything possible? Faith You really do? I consider your request, your legislative decision, which you want to enforce here, to be irrational and unthinkable. Medicine can not only be learned from scripts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You don't listen at all, so you don't show this academic ability you could actually demand from you. The universities have said: That's where we need two to three new medical universities. Rector Badelt said: It will show up after the election – and probably even before – that this is not technically feasible at all. We only attract “Numerus clausus refugees” from Germany. And that is what you call, Mr Greenewald, responsible? – I call it irrational and thoughtless. You know what? – I personally am afraid of such trained physicians, because you can’t train the doctors in high quality. And then you come and say, We are already doing all of this; that is a star hour of Parliament! – I think that’s a black day! That is irrational and unthinkable! I am afraid of such doctors, and the Austrian patients will also be afraid. Every time you come with quality in medicine. The ears hurt me when I always hear: Quality needs to be here and a new review and everything needs to be renewed. And then you make such a request, which is completely unthinkable and based on no number – I do not know a number of you to do so, but perhaps you call me one, perhaps Mr. Grünewald or Mrs. Oberhauser calls me one. But don’t come back to me with the statement “Quality in Medicine”! You do what you want, mass instead of class. I refer to your request as being irresponsible and impracticable. This is a black day for Austrian health policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29145	Mr Graf has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29166	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I put two requests in advance. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I now come to various contributions to the debate. I am glad that Mrs Karl reads my letters of information from Parliament too! But if she quotes it, she should also quote it entirely! I have put a question there, which is crucial: In the course of the study fees or contributions, as you may call them, the decisive thing is, of course, that you have a place to study so that you can pay the fees, too, because what is useful if you don't get students' fees?- Oh, my God! Unfortunately, this trend is in progress in Austria! However, we have now proposed a bar, because we are firmly convinced that free access to higher education is a fundamental right for our youth, it was in the past – and should remain. We have left the restrictions on access in part to the extent that they would have been removed anyway. They always conceal – and it is not with God the majority of all rectors in the rectors' conference, but only a minority of rectors for access restrictions! ==References== January 2010 the restrictions on access, which you had set in the law, because it is a temporary law, would have disappeared anyway and no security was provided to universities for the next years or for the next decade, except that the access restrictions are simply extended on a time-limit. – I mean, it’s not a good university policy to always extend without considering initiatives or alternatives! We introduced the study site-related funding – which was a demand of the rectors. For the multi-students in the subject areas where access restrictions fall, the additional costs for study-place-related funding in care conditions will be replaced by policy according to internationally oriented standards. – The rectors are all very much in agreement with this wording. – Don’t forget that here, too! I was yesterday at the press conference of the honourable gentlemen and I also heard Rector Badelt. There, as I would like to say, there was a party political activity. There are more or less people sitting in any of the personal committees of black ministers, and then they sit there and operate four days before the election of party-political advertising, not reflecting the true facts, but simply chewing their own propaganda, which they already believe! We have fulfilled the demands of the rector conference with our university package all in all. These requirements are found in the letter of the University Conference of 4. ==References== There are only a few, but the few we have fulfilled! This letter also states that the abolition of the study fees for the rector conference is not a flag issue. It is important to ensure alternative funding. This is a request from the rectors, and we have ensured that. Similarly, the full financing of the collective agreement, which we will now participate in, is a demand of the rectors. I hope that the EIA will go along with these motions for resolutions. In addition, the increase in total expenditure on tertiary education is also called for to 2% of GDP by 2020, an increase of approximately €400 million in 2010 in the first step of the global budget of universities. The rectors have argued quite correctly. They want to see an intermediate goal achieved. – With today’s applications, we have complied with this request of the rectors, saying: the universities. I hope that you will take note of and agree with the educational task that we are taking on in applications today. If you have always called on individual rectors, I assume that you will finally implement this if we want to comply with a request from the rectors' conference and achieve a goal that we all, but without stage targets, have already decided! Thus all the demands of the rectors are fulfilled, even over-fulfilled! That is why this package, which we are adopting today, is one of the biggest university packages, I mean even the largest for over 30 years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The universities will be provided with around €600 million more net from next year. This is exactly what universities need to achieve in order to achieve the joint goal of providing 2 percent of GDP in the tertiary education sector by 2020, unless you agree to this 2 percent target! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the study fees: We are constantly kept in mind that this well thought-out solution has also brought the FPÖ. I'm telling you exactly what it was like: I will remember forever the call I received as a scientist at the time. 19. September 2001, 10:12 p.m.; this time I have reflected: I receive a call from Federal Minister Chief, who informs me that the next day the study fees will be introduced in the Council of Ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: But at your request!]] We didn't know they'd be introduced! That was not in the Coalition Convention either! It doesn't matter! You can commit an error! It's not a flag question either! Now I'm gonna tell you something: The reason given at the time and still the same as before was: The universities receive 60 percent less in infrastructure funds, and so that the money remains the same for universities in absolute amounts, we introduce tuition fees! – I then asked how high these should be. It was said that 500 € are already needed in the semester to reach the absolute number again. – And that’s exactly how it was introduced! This was not even done in a university law or in a university law, but in the budget accompanying law, because it was an exclusive budgetary measure. I am aware of this, but it is no longer of importance, because there has been the side-by-side agreement that when student fees are introduced, access restrictions will never come. – In 2004/2005 you have introduced the access restrictions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] If you accuse me now that I want German students here, I'll tell you something: I don't know any law that was passed by this House when I was sitting here, which alone refers to citizenship or an ethnicity! And I say here again that one can only do this with German citizens, that one is putting them forward to pursue, in the end, educational goals, which, as I think, are false goals, because free access to higher education is abandoned. – That on this issue. Mr Rasinger, if you are like some – but few! – Rectors argue that quality is only sustainable where access restrictions exist, then I ask you the other way round the question: Do you want to introduce access restrictions in the 210 study areas where there are currently no study access restrictions, so that quality increases there? Is that what you want? Then confess to it! I do not want it, and I will always fight for free access to higher education for the Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Rasinger, now to the number: I looked at your birth year. You have studied medicine without access restrictions! That's why you might be sitting as Dr. med today. here; maybe would be You've been prevented from it otherwise! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Access restrictions do not prevent people from studying, they choose other disciplines and are still at Austrian universities! That's the subject. When you studied, Mr Rasinger, you started with 1,600 students at the same time in the year. Why Allow Now you only have more than 900 Austrian students? Haven't you been trained quality at the time, Mr. Rasinger? Similarly, I have also told Rector Schütz and the other rectors who have all studied at so-called mass universities and have become excellent doctors! You have to change the curriculum, you have to have a top-level reform, the conditions must be appropriate, and you must not make it worse! If you say that 150 or 200 students kill the quality more per year at the University of Vienna, I simply don't believe this! From 2012 on, year after year 1,600 Austrian doctors will retire. However, we only take in more than 900 students from Austria per year. This will be a health-political fiasco in which you can see your eyes if you don't change anything! - But it will change today. Adequate Austrians will be trained. We do not eliminate the restrictions on access in these studies, but we allow any Austrian to study. Access restrictions remain for EU foreigners. That's the theme! Read this carefully! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you mean it well with the universities, then decide on all the requests that are financial in nature! The universities need more teachers – no matter whether the access restrictions remain or are lifted. We have dealt responsibly and have solved the access restrictions so moderately that in the future every Austrian can study what he/she wants, and in the end Matura is the sole prerequisite for admission to study at our universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29292	The next item is the speech by Mr Einwallner. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29313	High house! Love Seers and Watch TW 1! As I have just learned, the young Steirers also watch; I am pleased. You from the FPÖ – I am now trying not to imitate it in the tone – can still cry out so loud: It's not getting any more true! - That's one point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today – I have to say this as a youth representative – if you look back at the day, a historic day, but unfortunately in a negative sense: They run the most brutal debt policy on the back of young people! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Study contributions have long been accepted by all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] They're socially sound. And it is, in turn, typical of the united left – as I almost want to say – because the FPÖ is already very far to the left, that it simply goes unsocially. Those who could not afford the contributions will be replaced in the form of scholarships. We also experienced in Styria that additional pots were provided for students, but they were not exploited. You have to imagine this: Additional scholarships have been set up, but they have not even been used enough! Furthermore, you always speak of “social barriers. ” - That's wrong! The opposite is the case: Study contributions are socially sound! But also the role of SPÖ is very sluggish to me as a steirer. Why is SPÖ trying so much for students? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rudas.]] Mrs Rudas: I also want to talk to you specifically! But why is SPÖ not seeking young workers? Why does SPÖ not strive for apprentices? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] To professional maturity in Styria: Your left-wing social councillor Flecker has managed to bring the students who are willing to learn to promote this career matura! Now they have to pay €2,000 for the professional maturity! So far, until 1. January 2008, it was free. Now they have to pay €2,000 for themselves. This is your policy for employees! That's why you have to say: The SPÖ is no longer a working party, but with the work of the SPÖ it is over! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Rudas, you are the next speaker, and I would therefore like to conclude by saying: What's wrong with that... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rudas.]] – You can make it quiet on superinstructors! Mrs Rudas, go inside and ask yourself what's wrong with us paying both study contributions! [[Abg. Rudas: Are you studying? Have you ever been to college?]] How do you explain to a young mother – perhaps alone – that she has to pay taxes so that we both have free access to higher education and that we both do not have to pay study fees?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Explain to me, Mrs Rudas, why both of us should not pay study fees, but the young single mothers must very well pay taxes for the students who really do not need the contributions because those who need it get the money back. I'm telling you about the SPÖ: Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29408	First of all, I note that the amendment tabled by Mr Grünewald was explained in the key points and was distributed in writing on the basis of his length. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29549	I have not found – and I am going to go back to this point – that Mr Graf has tabled two motions for resolutions, both of which are properly supported and are therefore under negotiation. These two motions for resolutions are as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29652	The next item is Mrs Rudas. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29674	Madam President. Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Love Seers and Advisors At home, who want to experience the moment when this educational disaster is finally ending! I think there are a lot of spectators today. I'd like to start by saying thank you: I would like to thank the many students who have fought for the abolition of tuition fees! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Allow me also a partial thanks: I thank the VSSTÖ; I thank the socialist youth, I thank the AKS, and of course – because it all fought together, including the workers – I also thank the Austrian trade union youth! You have created pressure that politics sometimes needs to make the right decisions! Today is hopefully the day of the days, and the collection of study fees, which have only served a social selection, will end. Mrs Mag. Dr. Karl, Dr. Rasinger, Mr. Dr. Hahn, tell me: How was it just so free to study? That was pleasant, wasn't it? It was pleasant for you, but your children don't like it anymore! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Hahn.]] We can discuss how to implement education policy! But that only you start to discuss social justice in education, I wonder! I am now looking at colleagues Neugebauer: Do we really want to discuss social selection in education? We can do that, but do you seriously believe that tuition fees are used to counter social selection at universities? You can't be serious! I don't think you believe that! I think you just don't trust yourself to stand here and say: Friends, we want elites in this country, and it's indifferent how many young people can go to college, we don't care if everyone can study what they want. Then: We want more for the rich, we want the rich to be able to send their children to the universities, and what is with the others is just indifferent to us! – jobs Why don't you come here and tell me this, and don't start talking about the tuition fees somehow? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Of course it's not about whether I pay tuition fees or not! But how many students are national councillors? What kind of example is that? That's why I'm apologizing for this gesture! But I was extremely surprised at such an absurd argument of a very young man! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to thank you today for being looked beyond these despite different ideologies that we have, and for the students of Austria, the right thing to do! Let me also say something about political culture: I expect for the next legislative period for young people in this country a policy that no longer operates with the raised index finger, a policy that simply listens to people. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] If the Austrian high school, the representation of the students' interests, which is quite critical of all of us – that is, not afraid, even with us – says that the students do not want to study fees, then one has to accept that too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29782	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Hahn. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e29839	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Above all, I also turn to the listeners here in the plenary room: To be honest, I would have liked to have been a witness when Mr Broukal, Green Forest and Count were gathered together – please beautiful! – have been tossed and found various numbers. [[Abg. Broukal: (the ‘ou’ of his name as ‘o’) Please, Mr Broukal!]] I've written a lot about this: Budget decline 34.9 percent, 4 percent student increase versus 40 percent, 1,600 doctors 2012. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's wrong! OECD!]] – So sensational, what you brought together! Congratulations! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Blow: A praise! That is a praise, a praise from the Minister!]] I have also read from the individual words that you all, be honest, have a bad conscience that you have to come together to decide what you want to decide today, a sensational bad conscience. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Does this have anything to do with this?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Mr Grünewald, you have already delivered better speeches than today, and you know exactly why this has not been achieved today: Because you probably can't look into a mirror for the next few years, if you decide what you decide to do today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: No, just because I only had 6 minutes!]] But I am still inclined to argue things in terms of content, so I will once again explain to you in terms of content why this – and I say it quite openly – is a weakness, which is decided today. [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] – Yes, relaxation! - All right, I'll take it back. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Let's say it's an unsuccessful intellectual action. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Point 1, the sensitivity of the study contributions: We have discussed this quite often here that the result of these study contributions as a consequence has fallen from more than 40 percent to 15 percent. These were, by the way, 40 000 to 50 000, who then exmatriculated. [[Abg. May. Muttonen:... the application is not read!]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: How long? How long?]] The average duration of study has been reduced from 14 to 12 semesters, so it will be studied by one year faster. What does that mean? – That individual study behaviour has changed. At the same time, there has been a practical doubling of the study grants, which means that today every fifth student at the university and every third student at the university no longer has to pay any study contributions. In other words, if you cancel the study fees now, they will no longer pay in the future those who can afford it. Congratulations on your incredible “social meeting”! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The consequence of the abolition of the conditions of access here and there will be that those who can afford to send their children abroad, because there the quality of universities according to what you will decide today will be unevenly higher than in Austria. [[Abg. Rudas: But you have made the quality so low!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What did you do?]] – So to speak, too, on the subject of social sensitivity and social symmetry. Congratulations on this incredible “refficacy. ” [[Abg. Broukal: What did you do in one and a half years?]] – This is not the form of mobility I wish for, Mr Broukal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Now again to the restrictions on access. The truth is: At some point, we don't get around asking ourselves the question of where the money comes from. Can you remember that? – Your speech of 7. November 2007! [[Abg. Rudas: (standing in the gang series) taxes are called that, as in your studies!]] [[Call: Madam President! Do you just call from the square?]] – That doesn’t matter, she’s allowed to say from anywhere she wants, it’s not relevant.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30103	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that a little more discipline be shown again and that of both sides: from the Members of Parliament as well as from the Government Bank! [[Abg. Head: But now it's enough! That's unheard of!]] [[Further violent calls to the ÖVP.]] Please, Minister of State, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30136	So, how you can apply more discipline than if you don't say anything, you have to teach me first, but good. Now a few words to the medical union: Ladies and gentlemen, what you decide to do here today can lead to the long-mare moratorium that the European Union has granted to us, and then we do not have 900 more students, but thousands more students. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] But perhaps this was what you wanted, because you may not have any interest in a quality training of doctors who are also working in Austria in the future. You should be aware of what this decision can do today. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] This decision can mean that we have no access restrictions and no more quota arrangements for the Medical Unions – with all the consequences you have to answer then, Mr Graf, because then we will not study 900 or 1 000 Austrians, but much less because Germany has a factor of 1 : 10 and will then push them into Austria. [[Abg. Strache: 500 Austrian maturants are... rejected only in the field of medicine!]] To illustrate, so that we know what we're talking about: In Germany, there are just over 9 000 places of study for medicine and more than 38 000 students who then have the opportunity to come to Austria. As you want to do all this, you will still have to explain it to me – but I don't think you can. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Not you anymore! Not you anymore!]] To be honest, Mr Greenewald, I do not understand that you went along with this, because just as a professor of medicine-uni Innsbruck, you need to know what this regulation can mean, as a result, for the Med-Uni Innsbruck. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Far better than you!]] I don't understand – but that's how it should be. Now at the cost: Mr Graf has taught what the University Conference wants and the wishes you have now fulfilled. – The problem is just: No one believes that you can only fulfill these wishes, because what you decide today is first of all structurally wrong, because it will not change the improvement, the raising of the quality of universities, but, on the contrary, it will come to other mass universities with queues, with more foreign students coming to Austria, not because of the quality of the university, but because of its unlimited availability and because it is free of charge. [[Abg. Brosz: And the study contributions have quality..., or what?- Oh, my God!]] – By the way: Austria will then be the only one of 46 Bologna countries that will not have access restrictions or study contributions. Austria is then a slar monkey country, but this will have an impact on the quality of teaching and, subsequently, on research. Let us speak clearly, ladies and gentlemen: What you decide today is in a range of at least € 500 to 600 million more per year, without any structural effectiveness at universities. This would mean an expansion of the university budget by 25 to 30 percent. And here I am with all the experts in the scientific community that we all wish for this, but it is not very realistic. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: You wanted a... last year, 2 percent of GDP!]] [[Abg. Oils: They always forget everything!]] I look forward to 2020: We need €200 million more per year to further develop the quality of our universities. But if you get through with this measure you decide today, then it takes an additional medical union, which really does not need anyone and costs between €300 and 350 million in the year. [[Abg. We need them in Linz! A medical union in Linz!]] Then we need more than 200 employees at the universities in the administrative area who have to control the student life habits each semester, whether they are employed or not. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and you should be clear about that too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Honestly, this Woodstock sentimentality with this retro/opa policy leads to an uncertainty of the scientific community. [[Abg. May. Worm: You do this uncertainty! You're doing this!]] They push the universities back into the last century, instead of you thinking about how we're going to get the universities back to the 21st century. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! Today, what you are studying is not primarily asked what you are studying, but where you are studying. In the future, the quality of the university will be important for employment opportunities. This should be remembered if you decide to do so today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is sometimes the hope of a parliamentary star hour. But what is happening here today is definitely not a parliamentary star hour, but what has happened is that a meteorite has hit – not yet a small one, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30320	Mr Federal Minister, I do not think it is right for government members to judge the work of the legislator, Parliament! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Karl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30358	Ladies and gentlemen! It has been mentioned several times that there have been massive concerns about this university package by universities, colleges, teachers and students. However, the circle of those concerned is a lot more, much more: Each taxpayer is affected by the proposed university package, which is why every taxpayer should be allowed to comment on whether he is willing to finance with his tax resources an exemption from the tuition fee of financial professionals, since I should like to remind him that those who are unable to pay the study fees receive the contributions by means of the funding of studies. [[Abg. May. Worm: Also the working students!]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger:... Volksammung!]] The application for the abolition of the tuition fees therefore does not at all apply to them. I cannot see this kind of social security which you see in abolishing the tuition fees here. The Austrians should also be allowed to decide whether they want to finance universities that will be double cheap. To this end, I should like to quote Mr. Rektor Däderle: “Our universities are becoming double cheap: They do not require any fees and no average grades in mass compartments. For example, they become a collection pool for students especially from Germany, where, for example, 500 euros per semester are charged in the south and a strict numerus clausus exists in mass compartments. Not enough by the fact that even more remote shifts already cross-finance university operations with their tax money, you will do so in future also for students from all EU countries." [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Is the ÖVP the EU party or not?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed an opportunity for us to make the following request. I can make a request for a referendum pursuant to Rule 43 of the Federal Constitutional Act in conjunction with § 84 of the Rules of Procedure of Members Karl, colleagues and colleagues on Amendment 890/A. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. That's the joke of the evening! ... but a referendum with the EU...! That's embarrassing!]] I have always believed that you think so much of referendums, and in this case you are against a referendum, Mr. Strache? – This is really not very credible! I shall now continue reading my request: Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member Art. 43 B-VG iVm § 84 GOG by Dr Beatrix Karl, colleagues on request 890/A by Mr Josef Broukal, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Dr. Kurt Grünewald, colleagues concerning a Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Organisation of Universities and Their Studies (University Law 2002), the Federal Law on the Organisation of Educational Universities and their Studies (Hochschulegesetz 2005) and the Federal Law on the Grant of Study Grants and Other Studienförderung (Study Funding Act 1992) The National Council wants to decide: On the basis of application 890/A by Mr Josef Broukal, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Dr. Kurt Grünewald, colleagues regarding a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Organisation of Universities and Their Studies (University Law 2002), the Federal Law on the Organisation of Educational Universities and their Studies (Hochschulegesetz 2005) and the Federal Law on the Grant of Study Aids and Other Studienförderung (Study Funding Act 1992) is to be passed upon termination of the procedure in accordance with Art. 42 B-VG, however, before the Federal President's approval, to have a referendum. Since you are all always so excited about the idea of conducting popular elections, I ask you here for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30505	The request for a referendum has been properly supported and received, and we will also proceed in this regard in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Iron gift. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30530	Madam President. Minister! High house! – Mr Colleague! [[Abg. Oillinger: Answer your colleague, please! Save the honour of the ÖVP!]] Mr. President, Mr. Hahn has justifiably said that the abolition of the study contributions is unsocial. As you are so angry, Mr Oellinger, I am now once again telling you the facts why this is so, because you all ignore a fact that you cannot talk away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The fact is: Those who come from a low-income family in Austria receive a study grant. It is also exempt from the tuition fees. [[Abg. Oils: You have no idea!]] - You have no idea! That's why it's not social if you cancel it. From your point of view, you also need to see that server servants are preferred by your way of thinking. Even if you don't like it: The Austrian funding system you want to destroy is thoughtful and exemplary in positioning – now you will get even more angry, Mr. Ölllinger, about equal opportunities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Gehrer-Hahn – after thank you!]] Studienförderung is established in Austria as an important instrument for promoting socially weak students. And the funding in Austria can be seen: It has doubled in volume since 2000, we have greatly expanded the circle of references. – Don’t tell their people because it’s unpleasant for you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Every third university student and every fifth student at the university receives study aid. Of course, that's good! This is a bonus that will then benefit society again, by the way, also for those who are ready for performance – that is a central point – so your arguments that student fees make access to study difficult for students from less-income families are simply not sustainable. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say what the ads cost!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is not only my opinion, that is the opinion of the rectors, that is the opinion of the students, even if you now, of course, are speaking small, just because it comes out that 67 percent of the graduates believe that we should not abolish them, and 61 percent of the students want to... – I say something to you now, Professor: [[Ruf:The question was yes suggestive questions]] In tomorrow’s “Kurier” you will find the headline: “Study Fees-Aus burgt Dilemma”. It is in your hand to prevent this dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30643	Mr Graf, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, spoke once again, this time with a five-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30665	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the bench! I am now joining rector Badelt, who said at his press conference: “I just don’t pack it”, which plans the ÖVP now has. If the Constitution, like the EU Treaty, is about a change – a complete change, a partial change – you do not want a referendum, but when it comes to the abolition of the study contributions, do you want such a change? – [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] When they were introduced, we didn't do that! When it was introduced, it would probably have been better, I say it would have been useful. For example, if you were to make a referendum happen that in Austria the tax rate should not be more than 40 percent and we would write it into the Constitution by means of a referendum, then I am already there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But not if you cancel a study contribution. We're not going to go there, because I'm not gonna pack it anymore. There are many things you could have done with a referendum. And if the downfall of democracy or parliamentarianism is now conjured by you, then it is clear. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: At once!]] When, without consideration, you, by means of an own-initiative amendment, raised the Chambers in the constitutional rank, which was really a master's achievement of a large coalition, and extended the legislative period to five years by surprise, without prior legal review and clarification, which costs the taxpayer – but in reality, we choose every two years when it goes after you – you had no problem with the Constitution and with Parliament. An initiative proposal is now marked by the fact that it is not subject to review. This is constitutional law, ladies and gentlemen. This is a government template, which is different from that. And it lives parliamentaryism, if at last laws are made here in Parliament and not just by the government bank – then parliamentaryism lives! [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] You have made the Security Police Act without consideration, with an initiative proposal, and also the like, where there was no review. You didn't deserve a referendum. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] However, it has been intervened in fundamental rights. But on the question of whether or not there should be study contributions, you want to have a popular vote at once, where I can quote you – the newspaper articles I have here – that the rectors' conference, when they were introduced, said: A crazy administrative burden of 37 million schillings comes to the universities if we have to take that up, and they go at the expense of research! Well, we're putting this crazy administrative burden on her now. That's so simple. [[Cheerfulness and applause with FPÖ, SPÖ and greens.]] – Again, at the rector conference: We're freeing the universities from this burden now! The only steering effect that study contributions have had – and this is not a flag question for me, but it should not really be for you – is to get a grip on long-term student. [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That was successful. And the students will have to pay student contributions in the future. That is why we have only partially abolished them. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] But you also have to mention the completeness in the first place. It's nothing else. The fact that foreigners still have to pay student contributions to third-country nationals must not hide this either; that, in reality, the Austrians are now finally being treated as Convention refugees and asylum seekers, because they have been freed forever, that is also necessary and important for us, because we want to support the Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you want to vote for a referendum on the abolition of the study contributions, although not even a legal claim has been rejected, while you have not been worried, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel, if a student has done a diploma thesis and a professor has not looked at it for a year and a year and a student has paid and paid and paid – you have not helped! [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last row, the universities have an account. You can deposit the money at any time. Donations are welcome. Figures Keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30769	Mr Brosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30794	Mr President. Mr Eisenschenk claimed that 67 percent of the Ministry's survey had opposed the abolition of tuition fees. – This is wrong insofar as the question has not been correctly quoted. So I quote them literally: The question of the Ministry, which had commissioned a survey at Fessl GFK, in the text: “The study contributions of €363 per semester have reduced the average duration by one year. Therefore, there were hardly any more students who did not take exams. Around every third student at colleges and every fifth student at universities is replaced by a student fund. What do you mean: Should the study contributions be abolished and taxpayers ’ income loss (€150 million per year) “result, or should the study contributions remain as they are a moderate contribution to the cost of a study? ” [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's right!]] That was the question! After that, it was asked: Whether to cancel or not to receive the study contributions What was not asked would have said: Do you really want Dilo to get rid of her?
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30853	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Broukal. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30874	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not my last day, but my last meeting here in the National Council, and I tell you quite honestly: I'm sure I'm going home with a very satisfied feeling! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] In these days, we have all seen in the newspapers reports of the success of ministers. Do you know what the only success of the Minister Hahn in his own presentation is? – That in 17 months he has increased the scholarships which he and his predecessor have not increased under the inflation rate in seven years. This is the only record of success that he advertises in newspapers! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: After super!]] This minister, who insults the House with the word “fathom”, has done a lot in these 17 months, but has not worked! - Little work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] That is why I decided already half a year ago not to rely on the content tactics and the eternally empty and false promises of this minister, but on the National Council's Science Committee to look for new allies. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Yes, and found in the blue!]] Mr Brinek, who then moved towards the People's Procuratorate, was most recently isolated in this committee because she still made you the wall, with her refusal to provide more money for the universities, to provide more professorships at the universities and to ensure a contemporary education at the universities. If I have asked the question: What, Mr Minister, are you doing in order to achieve the 2 percent target decided by all of us here unanimously with the Minister of Finance?, I have had to be offended with the answer: There we have ‘Von-Bis scenarios’! Then I asked the next question: Tell me the “Von” and the “Bis”!, but never get an answer to it. A minimum of 34.9 million has been registered in the draft budget of the Minister of Finance for the Ministry of Science. – You have worked so much, Minister. You didn't do anything! [[Call the SPÖ: Go back!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Broukal steps back anyway!]] Mr. Hahn, you have had to say in recent months that what happens is that if you do not do anything, then others will become active. Yes, I do! There is a new majority in this House who is no longer waiting for you and Mr Molterer to be ready to give money promised to universities for years, to finally finance professorships who have been holding the university away for years, and to adapt places of study which are not and are not being expanded, but to the increasing demand. I do not want to rely that you may be so well placed, because perhaps in the next legislative period we will be back with you in a coalition where you will torpedo it again. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: The service plan is the Federal Chancellor's case! You can start to discuss with you right now!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Hahn: Madness!]] No, no, no, We have torn your wall of resistance, and there is a wide gate for more money and more places to study at Austria's universities. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] You may be right if you say that some of what we have decided now is a bit ambitious. Yeah, but you know, only those who don't do anything don't make any mistakes. - Goodbye, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e30998	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. First of all, we will vote on the draft law on a federal law which amends the University Law 2002, the Higher Education Act 2005 and the Studienförderungsgesetz 1992 contained in amendment 890/A of the Broukal, Dr. Graf, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues. To this end, Mr Broukal, Mr Graf, Mr Greenewald, Mr President, have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Because it was so well worked!]] There is also an additional request from the honourable Member, Mag. Mr Darmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the draft law concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr Grünewald, colleagues, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the inclusion of a new point 1a in Article 1. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give them their approval to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. Deputies Mag. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of a new paragraph 1 in Article 3 and the resulting amendment to the terms of reference. Whoever agrees to this, I am looking for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's getting more and more! Abg. Oils: It's getting more and more!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the voting process! Mr Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr Grünewald, colleagues have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1, points 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and Article 3(3). I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of this. - That's the majority. It's accepted. I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, as amended by the motion for a resolution 890/A by Mrs Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr Grünewald, colleagues. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law at third reading too, in order to give a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Prolonged lively applause with SPÖ, Greens and FPÖ.]] [[Congratulations at the audience gallery.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the voting process! Mrs Beatrix Karl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a request for a referendum pursuant to Rule 43 B-VG in conjunction with § 84 of the Rules of Procedure. There has been a call for a vote. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. So I'm going to go like this: [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to pay attention! The ballots to be used are located in the drawers of the Members' House, bear the name of the Deputies and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of a referendum to cast “Yes” votes, those who vote against, “No” vote in the urn. I now ask the author, Mrs Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call; Member of the European Parliament Auer will replace them later. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31131	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31169	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 180, of which "Yes" votes 72, "No" votes 108. The application is therefore rejected. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Bravorufe at SPÖ.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Bucher; Darmann, Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Schlag; Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Einwallner, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Finz, Franz, Freund, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr Hermann, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Hakl, Haubner Peter, Haubner Ursula, Höfinger, Hellererer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Kainz, Kapeller, Karl, Koßl, Kukacka; Lentic; Mikesch, Missethon, Mitterlehner, Morak, Murauer; Neugebauer Fritz; Obernosterer; Pack, Praßl, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Riener Barbara; Sound, Scheibner, Schelling, Schittenhelm, Schultes, Schussel, Sieber Norbert, Sonnberger, Spindelegger Michael, Stadler Astrid, Stadler Ewald, Steibl Ridi, Steindl Konrad, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Westenthaler, Wöinger; Zweytick. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Aspöck; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier, Bösch, Brosz, Broukal, Bures; Cap, Csörgits; Dobnigg; Ehmann; Faul, Fazekas, spruce builder, stainl, filler; Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grossmann, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Haimbuchner, Heinzl, Hell, Hlavac, Hofer, Hradecsni, Hursky; Jarolim; Kaipel, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Knoll, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kurzmann, Kuzdas; Lapp, rivets, lights, lohfeyers, luegers, lunaceks; Maier Johann, Mandak, Marizzi, Mayer Elmar, Mayerhofer, Moser, Muchich, Muttonen; Nekula, Neubauer Werner, Niederweiser; Oberhauser, Oillinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Prehauser, Prammer; Rada Robert, Riepl, Cursor Sylvia, Rossmann, Rudas; Sburny, Treasure, Schönpass, Schopf, Spindelberger Erwin, Stadlbauer, Stauber, Steier, Steinhauser, Strache; Themesl, Trunk; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Wechner, Weinzinger Brigid, Weinzinger Lutz, Wenninger Hannes, Wimmer, Wittmann, Worm; Singer, Zinggl, Dwarf.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31370	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Karl, colleagues, on a university offensive. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues on the increase in the financing of vocational education and training courses by 34 percent. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 97.) [[call the ÖVP: Where is Mr Broukal?]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues on the financing of preferential professorships at Austrian universities amounting to €120 million. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the majority. Accepted. (E 98.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution 891/A by Mrs Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr Grünewald, colleagues on better financial resources for universities. [[Call at the ÖVP: Where is the broukal?]] Mr Broukal, Mr Graf, Mr Grünewald, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment to increase the budgets of the tertiary education sector and the global budget of universities. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I should like to put to the vote the motion for a resolution 891/A by Mrs Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr Grünewald, colleagues in the text of the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mrs Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 99.) 16. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[23:30:12]] Andrea Kuntzl, Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Family Compensation Act 1967 (888/A) 17. Question by Mr Ridi Steibl, Members of the European Parliament concerning a federal law amending the Family Compensation Act 1967 (900/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31448	We now come to points 16 and 17 of the agenda. With regard to these applications, a period of up to 23 years was granted to the Family Committee. ==References====External links== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. We are therefore going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Lap. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31483	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! We come to a very important point for the families in our country, with which we turn to all families before the elections, because families need support. Need families with children Support for their children – not from a certain age of life, but from the day of birth. And for this we stand Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Faymann doesn't want to be a German chancellor at all!]] All families get support, all children get through this 13. Family support, especially disabled children who receive an increased family allowance, receive this 13. Family allowances. – This is a very important point. Together with affected parents, together with affected families and together with many family organisations, we have fought social democrats for the families in our country. Every child is worth a lot to us. We don't make any difference. We don't make any differences after age, we don't make any differences according to social status. We are concerned that all children are equally supported, because the families in our country feel very much the price, feel the challenges very strong. And here it is important that we decide to give support to the families. This initiative is important to us for families. We've gotten through! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you are trying to present today as if this Parliamentary is a great challenge – you have not grown this challenge! [[Abg. Grandruck: Go, calm down!]] Because you have not advocated that we seek support for the families in our country to work together without selecting socially!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31558	Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I declare that following the votes on these two agenda items, I am voting on the 13th. Agenda item. The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31582	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lap, you are nothing too bad here in this House to take action against the ÖVP – not even a stolen request. For the 13th. Family aid is and remains an initiative of Vice-Chancellor Molterer – you know that very well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Faymann, you announced today in the "ZiB 2" that four and a half points have gone through, but you have to subtract it, because it is not out of your programme, that is an initiative of the Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is one of the few points, ladies and gentlemen, which we decide here today in the House, which are socially sound. And this point also has the full support of the ÖVP. Families with children need our support – we confess – and we can also pay off the price with this regulation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl]] I can explain to you why we too finally decided for all children. The debate took place. [[Abg. Riepl: Because we forced you to do so!]] – That is not true, Mr Riepl! [[Abg. Riepl: Sure!]] We've been together and have been thinking [[Cheerfulness, detonating applause and intermediate calls at SPÖ]] For children from six years of age, expenditure is much higher than for smaller children. There are also subsidies in the Federal Länder, for example in Upper Austria, between the third and sixth years of life. And we've got the stuffed babysitting allowance up to the third year of life. Therefore, the real load begins at six years. It is right and we support all children with our current request. All children are expected to receive this allowance. But: We have held the discussion – you have written down the request! That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen. Don't worry about it. In any case, this is an initiative that helps families with children, and we want to support them in particular. This support for families costs around €250 million per year. I would like to point out once again, because the bazaar is not yet closed – we are still in the middle of votes that this Republic will have after the 28th century. September will change – and I am a little sad that here with folklore and euphoria billions will be thrown out to the window and no one knows who will pay this in the future. Mrs Rudas, you are a dedicated young politician, but you haven't learned everything, either – I don't, not all of us sitting in here. I'll invite you to: Let's go to the pension insurance institution together! Because if you've followed the discussion about pensions, you have to say that there should be no playouts of young and old. That's ridiculous. It is about paying the contributions, the federal contribution so that the pension funds are filled. After all, we have a payment procedure, so that the generations who are in the “performance ” have to pay for it. [[Abg. Oillinger: Say for whom this is paid for!]] But you do not say that in this discussion, and I am sad. [[Abg. Oellinger: Mr Wöinger, for whom is this paid for?]] I am somewhat disappointed when billions of funds are decided here, which will last a long time for the generations to come – still for a long time! – will fall to the burden if our children and grandchildren will still have to pay what is decided today at this bazaar. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We stand by this 13. Family allowances. I would like to mention that the 2008 disbursement will take place retroactively with November. We thus continue the family-friendly path of the ÖVP for the Austrian families with children: Fees stop at birth, increase family allowances for multiple families, flexibilisation of child care benefits. Two more points that will come in the future: the free kindergarten year and last but not least with the tax reform when we have generated the money, deposits for careless children. – This is how we imagine a discharge that can also be financed, which is manageable and not on the back of the young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31702	Mr Magistrate, speaking on an actual amendment, has spoken. Maier. I would draw attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31726	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My previous speaker here claimed from the speaker that the increase in family aid was an initiative of the ÖVP. - That's not right! I'm correcting: Federal Minister Dr. Erwin Buchingerand then Minister of Women Doris Bureshafen in February and March point out that the family allowance has not been increased since 2000. At the time, the ÖVP rejected this advance. [[Call to the ÖVP: It has nothing to do with it!]] This is and remains an initiative of the Social Democratic Government Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31764	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31785	Mr President. High house! The fact that we now have two of the same requests under this item on the agenda, but two requests, which are nevertheless not “wordident”, show once again how inadequate ÖVP and SPÖ are, unfortunately, to finally unite in one matter if they are of the same opinion. [[Call at the SPÖ:The Greens have not made any request at all!]] You are unable to make a “wordident ” request! This is an evidence of poverty, ladies and gentlemen of these two parties! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We wanted to be here today, I told you before, because we saw that they are the same, a few words different, so we agree. Today, then, we have been approached by lawyers and lawyers from all sides, including parliamentary management itself: Please ensure that both applications are not voted or accepted, otherwise we have two decided requests, no one knows what is happening exactly in this case, they are not identical and concern the same paragraphs. That is, we have legal uncertainty – a legal uncertainty affecting the families, because it is about this, not about your disputes and about your non-co-operation. This is the case with the families in Austria, who are the 13th. Family allowances. And we support it. That is why I am now making a request for referral back to the application 888/A. Now you can stone me and tease me – it could have been the other one. It is quite the same because in both the same thing is in it. And if the request is rejected – I hope – then we will only have one request to vote, and I hope that all Members of this House will be able to agree, even if their own name is not covered by the request. – Not in your own interest, but think once about the families to whom it is here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31837	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31858	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I really wonder how this election should continue. [[Call the ÖVP: red-blue!]] The hatred between the two government parties is so abominable that the question is: How will you both continue to work? We know that both SPÖ and ÖVP prefer the model of the great coalition. I am really excited about how things continue, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oillinger: FPÖ-BZÖ is not bad either?- Oh, my God!]] – Well, you know, but that’s understandable – isn’t it? – after everything that happened there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But I would like to make two more requests which are important to us. The first application concerns the amount of child replacement, i.e. because of the 13th anniversary. Family aid, which will now come. Then it doesn't matter what idea that was. The fact is, however, that the ÖVP first demanded that it be implemented only for schoolchildren. – Mrs. Rauch-Kallat is asleep again. Good morning, Mrs. Colleague! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: She's alive!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Do you really have any better arguments?]] First, it was called upon to implement this only for schoolchildren. But now it's being implemented for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, it is of course also necessary to increase the amount of children's leave. Because you don't have a 13. It makes sense to increase the amount of child drop-off by 10 per cent per month, from € 50,9 to € 56. This also concerns the maintenance deposits for the first child 28 €, for the second child 42 € and for each other child 56 €. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] A second measure, which is very important to us: This is the family tax division we would like to know how to implement, because we believe that it is a suitable measure to facilitate the financial survival of families in Austria. In particular, larger families are preferred here. I know that the ÖVP has also propagated this model in the past, but now it has gone away and wants to implement a “family tax division light”. I would therefore also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e31979	The two by Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32091	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 1 minute of voluntary speaking time limit; the remaining speaking time Your group is two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32112	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The appreciation for the families is also expressed by supporting them where it is particularly necessary, especially in financial terms. Therefore, the BZÖ will become the 13th B.C.E. Family aid. But we will also see the amendment tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, Mr Ing. Introduce Westenthalers and colleagues who have the content of granting birth aid of €1,000 for the birth of a child and increase the birth grant to €1 250 for the second child. This is a contribution to the general and comprehensive provision of services for the families. I also hope for the approval of the other political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32149	The amendment tabled by Mrs Haubner is sufficiently supported; it has been explained in its key points and will be explained for its scope in accordance with § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure are distributed to Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32269	The next item is the speech by Mrs Ewing. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32290	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear sisters, dear Seeher! Ladies and gentlemen! There is hardly a household in Austria that is not affected by the inflation. Especially families with children feel this particularly strong. Single mothers and fathers have already reached the limits of loadability. Child poverty results from the poverty of their families. Single-parent households and households with more than two children are particularly affected. The poverty report found that more than a quarter, 27 percent of those at risk of poverty, are children and adolescents in Austria. It is therefore of great importance for SPÖs to take an important and right step towards remission, because families must be helped immediately by means of a social measure against the cost of this additional family aid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now is also exactly the right time for this SPÖ initiative for a 13. Family allowance – of course for all children. The principle applies to SPÖ: Every child is worth a lot. In September, many children and young people start their training. It starts the new school year, the kindergarten year and soon the year of study. For many families this month is therefore a feared month. If several children are in training, many additional expenditure will be spent on the budget budget. You can believe me, ladies and gentlemen, I know what I am talking about. In my family are a student, two students and one apprentice. This additional family allowance is also an important contribution for young families who are growing as a result of the birth of a child. Very often, the previous living conditions are changing very seriously. And often there is also a change of apartment. Especially young families who are under construction must not be forgotten here, nor excluded. The amount of family aid is currently between € 105 and € 202 per month. This height depends on the age of the child, the number of children – the siblings for multiple families. Payment is made 12 times a year. Of course, this increase in family allowances is also taken into account in the case of significantly disabled children and in the case of multiple-childing. For the State budget, this means 13. Family aid amounting to approximately €250 million per year. Today's approval benefits around 1.8 million children and young people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32353	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32374	Mr President. High house! The objective of the ÖVP is known, we have already formulated it several times. Our aim is to make Austria the most child-friendly country and, above all, to support those families that have children, who are at risk of poverty and therefore we must protect them from poverty. Families are the social center of our society. And the families in Austria stand for cohesion, care and confidence. That is why it must be the task of our politicians to support young families in Austria as much as possible. Therefore, we from the ÖVP have already proposed some effective measures – not only proposed but also implemented them; I am thinking of the introduction of the childcare allowance, which is, above all, a great support for young students, but also, above all, the withdrawal of the fees at birth. That was also a proposal from our top candidate Willi Molterer. However, the expansion of childcare facilities is also a major concern of the ÖVP, which we will continue to pursue. The measure we have proposed today is once again a very effective measure in family policy, which is to support, in particular, those families who have to fight at the start of school, which entails quite additional costs. Young families in particular have something of it, especially single teachers have some of it. This is an additional support of up to €300, which will also benefit the children in this country. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's honest, that's good policy. And that's why the ÖVP is the better choice for the families. We don't need any bazaar negotiations in Austria, we deliver thoughtful and financeable solutions, we have these 13. Family aid also developed and proposed jointly in the discussion with professionals and family associations. We have presented a very comprehensive package of futures for the families. This also includes the income-dependent childcare allowance, which includes the last kindergarten year free of charge and, of course, the tax deductibility of child care costs. [[Abg. Oils: It took a long time!]] Finally, the introduction of the minimum tax base is something that benefits families in particular. That's why it's the right choice, 28th. ==References====External links==* Official website In fact, we set a model for the future in the families, while the SPÖ explains families as a run-out model.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32424	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32445	Ladies and gentlemen! Today we will introduce the 13th. Family aid is an important further step towards the relief of families. In fact, it is not a particularly elegant situation that there are two applications, which basically mean the same thing. I would, however, like to remind you of how this situation has come about. [[Abg. Großruck: Have we heard!]] At first, the ÖVP has not been moved for months to increase family support. Then was election campaign – and the ÖVP has documented: Increased family allowances, 13. Family allowances. And then again a lot of persuasion and public pressure were necessary to move the ÖVP not to promise it for some time, but to decide before the elections, today. Then there was the third point, namely that the ÖVP the 13. Family allowance only for children over six years of age, but we said: No, this should benefit all families with children, including families with small children. The situation thus arose that we wrote this request and also made it the first. But, ladies and gentlemen, it really should not matter whether my name or the name of Mr Steibl is on the request, which will then be decided. Should the referral request of our request find a majority, we will not be able to agree to the ÖVP request, although, of course, we find our request to be better and more concrete, but ultimately we want the same. And it depends on the 13th. To decide together today on family aid and to contribute to the relief of families.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32483	From the government bank, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32504	Mr President. Estimated Members on the Government Bank! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! High house! I think sometimes competition is good, and it is good for the Austrian families. The Austrian families in the entire discussion that we are having, especially with the strains. It is therefore particularly important that we decide today, in accordance with the requirements, to increase this family aid. A doubling is simply a necessity, especially a necessity that we decide on time, so decide – and this is the background – that exactly now, it is acute and, as has been emphasized so often, because where people need it, in the current situation, it is helped that we can give it to families – retroactively – in September. Why in September? – One can now discuss for a long time whether everyone, from six years of age, whether in any form, of course, we want to support all families, but, you will give me the right, especially those families who are financially particularly burdened by the start of school, need this money very much. And believe me, we have enough experience. That's why I mean that was the first intention. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also seen that it must be equal treatment. That is why I am pleased that we were able to learn from our conversations and from our discussions. And I am pleased that we can therefore offer this money to families. I think this is a small help position, a first step in the right direction to relieve families. We should also see very positive this day. It is money that is now being passed on not only in the context of family aid, but all additional payments are also taken into account – the age rate, also the brother-in-law rate and, above all, the increased family allowance for significantly disabled children. In other words, we meet socially, above all, families who have several children, but also families who have to live with the situation, to have a significantly disabled child. I think that not only do we put the right action at the right time, but we also do so for the social right group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has already been mentioned: € 250 million is a certain amount. It is my job to work on your behalf, but it is also my job to inform you adequately. We must never forget – and this will not be possible for a future government – that the family compensation fund is ultimately difficult to deficient. In this respect, we have made a preview of this, and we are currently in the Family Tax Compensation Fund at just under €2.5 billion. The preview by 2013 is minus 3,198 billion €. In other words, we also have to think about how we might change or re-fill this family compensation fund or change it a little, with all the support and support that is necessary and important. That is something I also wish for; this must be kept in mind in these discussions, including as an economic consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32567	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. First of all, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Magnette. Kuntzl, Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Hiezu has asked Mrs Mandak to refer the matter back to the Family Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. The vote on the two motions for resolutions tabled by the honourable Member is thus absent. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). We shall then proceed to the vote on the draft law contained in Amendment 900/A by Mr Steibl, colleagues and colleagues on a federal law amending the Family Compensation Act 1967. Mr Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional request. First of all, I will vote on the supplementary motion and finally on the draft law as amended by the 900/A initiative by Mr Steibl, colleagues. The rapporteurs Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal, which includes the insertion of new paragraphs 2 and 4, together with the resulting amendment to the numbering. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt included in the 900/A initiative by Mr Steibl, fellow Members. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and FPÖ.]] [[00:02:33]] Votes on agenda item 13
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32668	We now come to the vote on the draft law on a federal law, contained in Amendment 915/A by Mr Haberzettl, Mr Bucher, Mrs Bucher and Mr Colleagues, which amends the Income Tax Act in 1988. Mr Bucher, Dr. Stummvoll, colleagues, have tabled a supplementary or amendment request. There is also a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mrs Bucher, fellow Members. In addition, Mr Haberzettl, Mr Bucher, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. Finally, there is a request from Mrs Ing. Westenthaler on separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and on the request for separate votes and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, as amended by the motion for a resolution 915/A, tabled by Mr Haberzettl, Mr Bucher, Mrs Bucher and others. Mr Haberzettl, Mr Bucher, Mr President, have tabled an amendment which refers to paragraph 1. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Mr Bucher, Dr. Stummvoll, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment with the appropriate numbering, which refers to the insertion of a new paragraph 3. I should like to ask the Members of the House for a sign of this kind. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission, which deals with the inclusion of new paragraphs 3, 4 and 9. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Mr Bucher, Dr. Stummvoll, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to point 4 of the motion for a resolution 915/A. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by Mr Haberzettl, Mr Bucher, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask for an appropriate sign upon consent. - That's accepted. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Haberzettl, Mr Bucher, Mr Cots, which refers to several amendments to paragraph 4. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. [[Abg. Dr Graf: Mr President! You should not have carried out the previous vote because only in the event of rejection...!]] I am briefly interrupting the voting process in order to complete the voting croquis.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32708	I'll start the interrupted session again. By a majority, the amendment tabled by Mr Bucher, Dr. Stummvoll, colleagues, referring to point 4 of the motion for a resolution 915/A was adopted. This means that the subsequent votes on amendments to Haberzettl, Bucher, as regards paragraph 4, are missing. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote on an additional amendment tabled by Mr Haberzettl, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the inclusion of a new paragraph 5. I would ask for an appropriate sign upon consent. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President, on the inclusion of new paragraphs 5 and 10. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, which refers to the insertion of new paragraphs 6 and 11. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, Mr Bucher, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to the amendment of the numberings of the previous paragraphs 3 and 4. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by Mr Haberzettl, Mr Bucher, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I ask for an appropriate sign upon consent. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the motion for a initiative 915/A by Mr Haberzettl, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is the majority and thus accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Dr. Stummvoll, ladies and gentlemen, on the reduction in the wage and income tax as far as possible. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 100.) [[00:10:51]] 18. Point Request by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues on income dependent childcare allowance (894/A)(E) 19. Point Request from Members Ridi Steibl, colleagues on the further development of child care allowance – Offer of an income-dependent variant in the interests of families (904/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32832	We now come to points 18 and 19 of the agenda. With regard to these applications, a period of up to 23 years was granted to the Family Committee. ==References====External links== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. We are therefore going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32868	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! The two applications present are similar, as was the case with the previous item on the agenda. The Greens have long called for an income-dependent model, especially on the grounds of bringing more men into childcare. The fact that the ÖVP has now jumped on this train is something very new. It is likely that the EIA has needed something for family policy, and it has no better idea than to demand an income-dependent model now, saying that this is a very special model. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP]] So this is supposed to be an income-dependent variant – that is the shortest variant – while the two other longer variants are to remain, namely the traditional childcare allowance for two and a half years or three, when the parents share this time, and then this average variant at 24 months. Ladies and gentlemen! We of the FPÖ believe that all children are equally worth the same. So it can't be that some parents then get a lot more karenz money, but others much less. This is not the way we want to go. You know, we've been talking about inflation all day today – and yet, in turn, those who make a lot of money will be favoured; they will then receive more karenz money accordingly. This, in turn, means less money for low incomes. This is also a reason why we cannot accept it in any way. While the request of the Greens is logical and consistent in itself, it must already be said in the ÖVP application that the impression could arise that the ÖVP had a mental amok race while it produced this bill. There is a real huge administrative burden; by the way, different systems run parallel: for one part wage-dependent, for the other wage-independent. Only the amount needed for this enormous administrative burden would be more meaningful for the families! You should give this to the families, because you have taken everything away in recent years. You can't get over it either because we're a 13 now. This is, in fact, an alms, a quarter of what families have had to lose in the last few years. Therefore to you from the ÖVP: Don't praise yourself too early! This model of the ÖVP is completely unexposed at all. For years now, we have been demanding the freedom of the liberals, for example, to abandon the limit of the commitment. This would also result in perhaps more men going to Karenz. We wanted that to happen. The requirement is lifted that men and women, both parents, have to share the karenz period. – What you have sought was a steering effect, but it has been shown in recent years that this steering effect has not occurred in any way. There are a maximum of 4 percent of all men going in Karenz. Exceptions can only be found in the case of self-employed and farmers; it is already the case that more and more men go to Karenz – clearly, because they can work side by side. These are exactly the things that don't work. That is why we call on the Freeman to remove this limit of merit. We also want to abolish the need for parents to share it. I think parents are mature enough today and know exactly what's best for their child. They should therefore also be allowed to divide themselves, who remains with the child. It may well be the case that a man wants to stay with his child for three years, but that is not possible with your presentation. What we do Liberals have still demanded and what has been repeatedly rejected by you by the ÖVP is that the parents get the karenz extended so that they have an insurance protection as long as they are in Karenz. Today, we have the situation that insurance expires after two years and that is why the caring parent is forced, as it were, to re-enter the work process, although he could continue to receive the child's allowance for half a year. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Hofer, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a government document that amends the Childcare Money Act and meets the following requirements: the removal of the limit of merit, the abolition of the parents' changeover requirement in the care for full childcare allowance; the insurance protection for parent and child for full 36 months, regardless of the chosen payout variant, Inflation adjustment of childcare allowance.’; After all, 15 percent of families have been taken in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e32962	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33129	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33150	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Federal Government! I can only say: Welcome aboard! Income-dependent karenz money is a long-standing demand from us Social Democrats. It is about the fact that fathers and mothers can participate equally – at least in the first months – in the development of their child. Both proposals – and also Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein's motion for a resolution – provide a basis for discussion on a principle of subsidiarity. Finally, with the aim of developing a clearly defined, fair and transparent model of child benefits in all respects. There will, of course, be a content discussion; this is also necessary. The ÖVP model has the content of ensuring that current choices are maintained. – I think the ÖVP model is more limited. In principle, there is agreement on the Greens' request. Ladies and gentlemen! We are mainly concerned with offering a wide range of variants that address the different living conditions, living situations and also the desires of women and men. I think we have to take care of it and take it into consideration. In addition to the discussion, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Taking into account the needs of adults is the basis for the children being the greatest profiters. I am already eager to see how the result will actually be for an income dependent child care allowance, says Karenzgeld.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33245	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Binder-Maier is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33359	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33380	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister and Minister of State! Mr President. If Mrs. Dr. Belakovich says that the ÖVP must have had a mental attack when drawing up the motion for a resolution, or if Mrs. Binder-Maier believes that the ÖVP model does not produce anything and will agree to the green one, I would like to say that neither in 2002 nor at present in 2008 this call is present in the SPÖ's electoral programme. Therefore, it is the ÖVP, which is now seeking an extension of the existing childcare allowance, with this flexibility of the childcare allowance, by further developing the current short version, 15 plus 3 to 800 €, into an income-dependent childcare allowance. 12 plus 2 months, and parents get at least 1 000 €, maximum 2 000 € paid. The most important thing for us is that everyone can choose freely. In other words, the current three pillars remain, one of which is income dependent childcare. It's neither complicated nor anything else. It's about freedom of choice, and we don't want any compulsion to a model, as it is now finally intentioning the green request, or what the SPÖ is looking at again and again. It has also been shown that the birth rate has increased in Germany since the introduction of the parental allowance; it has risen again from 1.33 to 1.37 in 2007, for the first time for three years. There are also comparative figures on the fact that more men have entered the father's participation. All of this shows that this is a way that the ÖVP continues to do if I only do. We have a family minister and also a State Secretary who is working in this direction. In addition to flexibilising the childcare allowance, I also recall the increase in the siblings' season, I recall the family allowance for young people seeking employment, the increase in the amount of earnings, the abolition of birth fees, the extension of childcare, or our wish that the last kindergarten year should be free. That's quite, very important for Vienna. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Today, we have abolished the tuition fees, but in Vienna a kindergarten course costs about 260 € for a month, and the tuition fees for a semester are around 360 €. In summary, we're on our way. Even if some people believe they know – then they have to write it into the government program. The ÖVP is the family party, it wants to take measures to ensure that young women and young men have more courage for children, so that we continue to increase birth rates, strengthen fatherhood participation, and also facilitate young, highly qualified women and men to reconcile work and family life. It would be positive if the SPÖ had the courage to vote here if it could not write it into the government programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33437	Next, Mrs Mag. Weinzinger to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33459	Mr President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! High house! This – allow me to say this – is the case with doctors on the various child care schemes that show that no satisfactory solution has yet been found to meet the needs of the parents. Therefore, my first appeal is: Take a heart, and finally make a thing with hands and feet, a reasonable model that meets the needs! There's a second appeal right there: Let us say goodbye to a model, which means that the mother is solely responsible for childcare, especially in the case of infants! This has for a long time been no match for what parents want to have in life reality and to shape life’s reality. I therefore welcome any solution that will allow greater partnership in childcare to be lived, greater compatibility and greater flexibility for both parents. So, it's almost a silver strip on the horizon, if we finally, I don't know how many years of discussion, stand here today and seriously discuss an income-dependent karenz money that would take into account this very reality of life – provided it promotes partnership, it promotes an active parenthood of both parents exactly in the infant phase. I am therefore pleased that we have a motion for a resolution from the Greens which defines the key points for such an income-dependent pension fund. It is so open that both ÖVP and SPÖ can find themselves in it with their previous declarations of intent. I hope that these declarations of intent will also be reflected in the approval of the request. This is therefore an urgent appeal, here a reasonable concept, which does not even carry a clearly green handwriting in every detail, to help break through. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since this is at least at human discretion my last speech in the House, allow me a personal comment at the end of the day. I would like to thank all those who have made it easy for me to work and live in this House over the last few years in Parliament's management and their employees for the numerous support they have given me, of course with the colleagues in the Green Club, but also with all of you, whether for a good basis of conversation, which has facilitated negotiation or at least mutual Im-Gang greetings, including those who, through the opposition, have motivated me to get involved even more and perhaps to do something rhetorically, with all those on the government bank who sometimes did not make it so difficult for you as an opposition politician, as well as with all those who have deliberately or inadvertently facilitated my life and helped me learn. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Please be nice, happy to happen!]] Thank you very much! At the time, I went to politics with the election term “quality of life you can choose”. For me personally, I do this now. I can only wish you all personally – however you do – to take it for granted. If you want to make it politically true, you will have to choose green, and in this sense I wish the Greens a provoking election success.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33501	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Kuntzl. . I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33526	Ms. Steibl has previously claimed that the Kindergartenplatz in Vienna costs more than 200 €. She called it a concrete number. We have already corrected this several times today, I would like to correct it once again: In Vienna the kindergarten rates are socially staggered. [[Abg. Scheibner: But also say about what it looks like the seasoning!]] [[Abg. Steibl:... for a childcare place!]] A third does not pay anything at all, namely those who earn little, a third pays the reduced rate, and a third pays the full rate.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33579	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33601	Mr President. Dear women on the government bank! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Weinzinger, I wish you all the best for your further life course. Only: Unfortunately, I can't do the favor of choosing green. [[Abg. Oils: Can still be!]] Today it is a very good day for a lot of people, for the caregivers, for the people who care for hackers, for the hackers and hackers, for all those who have worked for 40 or 45 years, for the sick – you have also voted in favour of 10 percent less in medications, which helps the health insurance companies – for the students and often their parents, for the families, for the 13. Family aid, which has been carried out unanimously here. – This is all important for the people in our country who need it; these are important discharges. This concept, which is to be presented there, is important for the future parents – for the young future parents – and an income-dependent pension or child benefit has long been due. There are international examples that show us that this takes into account exactly the wishes of the families. If you have something like an emancipatory claim at all, then of course you have to put in place such measures. How does it look in the Scandinavian countries where these models have long since taken place? – At least 20 percent of the fathers in Karenz go there or use this child money – as always called –. This means that child care is not only in the hands of women, but also the fathers take care of the children accordingly. The best example is Iceland. There, 90 percent of men take care of the children for some time. You should look at Iceland, Mr Scheibner! This is a very good example of the father's participation in the education of their children. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'd rather stay there and you can go!]] This is important, and the children also need the male element when it comes to educational correct education. [[Abg. Scheibner: (to the government bank signifies) They are laughing already, ladies, because of Iceland!]] The topic of child care: We have always talked about the possibility that women – and also men – should be able to get back into the profession after some time or to practice childcare in addition to the profession. This requires, of course, appropriate childcare facilities. Vienna and the amount of costs of a kindergarten in Vienna are always mentioned. I can tell you from Tyrol that there are not a few privately organized childcare facilities that are offered from the first year of life, and you pay no less than €300 for that. Unfortunately! And such an amount can afford at least if they even have the opportunity to find such a kindergarten. In the country, in the whole of Tyrol, there is almost no way to put children in groups. The previous Minister of Women is very grateful for her success in re-installing these kindergarten millions, which the black and blue government abolished at the time. This helps families, it helps children and is important for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33675	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Pack. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33696	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Wurm, just briefly: I think you can make a little difference between private and public kindergartens very well! [[Abg. May. Worm: The public doesn't even exist, that's the problem!]] But let's go to the real point: I think we, the ÖVP, have taken the right initiatives. We have created the framework conditions so that people have more financial scope for the birth and education of a child, and above all we have guaranteed them freedom of choice in terms of family and work. I think that's undisputed. The flexibility of the childcare allowance has already brought much. She has also enabled people to get back to work faster by means of higher references and a shorter period of time, and as a result – my previous speaker Ridi Steiblhat mentions it – the father's participation, especially in the shorter variants, has also increased significantly. With the new proposal that we have made by the ÖVP by means of Ridi Steiblein's request, there is real freedom of choice. [[Abg. May. Worm: It took a bit of a while!]] Those who want to care for their child at home for longer can continue to do so, for whom there are the two longer variants. On the other hand, men and women who are afraid of a career neck can now accept this income-dependent variant. – This offers a real alternative. However, I would just like to mention the following, since many things have already been said in the debate: It is already very interesting if fees are charged in Vienna for kindergartens – although socially staged, but that is now put forward – but study fees are a taboo. [[Abg. May. Worm: At least there are them! We don't even have them!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Are not a taboo! You can talk about it quietly!]] To the tinnober and the theater that you have listed at the study fees, you can hopefully only say: Arrogance comes before the case!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33788	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. – I ask all ladies and gentlemen to take the places. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution 894/A by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on income-related childcare allowances. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 101.) We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution 904/A by Mrs Steibl, colleagues, on the further development of child care allowances – offering an income-dependent variant in the interests of families. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hofer, fellow Members, on the development and extension of childcare allowances. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Kuntzl, colleagues on the introduction of an income-dependent childcare allowance. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[00:37:25]] 20. Point Report by the Investigation Committee on the cover-up of police officers and the abuse of political power, in particular in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, but also in the Federal Ministries of Justice, Finance and European and International Affairs (129/GO) (679 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33885	We're entering the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Pilz. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e33915	Good morning! The relief of the Austrian People's Party was felt when a large “now-rich” was also taken by the Committee of Inquiry for the Interior Ministry. [[Call the ÖVP: Is this your farewell speech?]] Yeah, it's true: The Austrian People's Party has concluded that the Committee of Inquiry has been able to work successfully for at least a few months. It has not, however, come to light with regard to the Enlightenment. We were able to examine two chapters very carefully. We were able to answer two questions from the National Council to the Examining Committee, I believe, very thoroughly and completely cleanly. The first question was: Has the Austrian People's Party ensured that criminal officials, but also judicial bodies, have been abused in the 2006 National Council election campaign against SPÖ? – The question can be answered with a clear and clear yes after all the surveys in the Committee of Inquiry and all the files that we could see despite the resistance of the Ministry of the Interior. Yes, the ÖVP has used everything, tried everything – and unfortunately tried everything successfully! – in order to misuse the Ministry of the Interior's key officials and specifically – and that was the most important thing – without having to be identified by the prosecutor and behind the attorney's back against the SPÖ in order to obtain as much election ammunition as possible. [[Abg. Wheeler: Conspiracy theorists!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Total distortion of truth!]] The aim of criminal police investigations on this point was not to clarify the criminal case of BAWAG, but – I repeat it – to carry out political ammunition procurement against a political competitor behind the back of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Pure untruth! The opposite is true!]] Whether the abuse of office was a prosecutor's office must and must judge an ordinary court. The fact that this was a political abuse of power of the very first rank was one of the most important results – or intermediate results – of this investigation committee. Second important objective result was – and there we could not continue to ask the political leaders: In the case of Zogaj, political power in the Ministry of the Interior has been abused in a humane way. [[Call to the ÖVP: Again the untruth!]] What happened: Arizona Zogaj was just submerged, on the run from deportation. The public mood was on the side of the family, and the ÖVP in the Ministry of the Interior has decided: Now we get out of our information systems everything to finish the family. [[Abg. Lentic: Please go!]] And that's exactly what happened – under the leadership of the Interior Minister, through the Cabinet, through the Upper Austrian Criminal Police to police inspection. [[Abg. Fantasies! Your fantasies are boundless!]] At this point we had to stop because the legislative period ends. And the only major political question is: Since the issue of Kampusch is open, the political cleansings in the Ministry of the Interior are open, the visa affairs are open, the major questions relating to the Office for Internal Affairs remain open and unanswered, will the Committee of Inquiry be able to resume its work during the new legislative period? – We say: Yes, there must be a new committee of inquiry, because there must never again be this level of abuse of power in the Ministry of the Interior, because it should never be possible that a political party no longer looks at the security of the population, but only at its own political interests! [[Abg. That's total nonsense, what you're saying! Such a subjective representation!]] It is up to Parliament to investigate this abuse of power in order to prevent it from happening for the future. [[Abg. Hornek: That's what the criminally condemned mushroom says! The lawbreaker!]] That is why I expect clear statements from the parties that together with us have formed an investigational majority, this evening for the days after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34052	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Johann Maier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34077	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The following have clearly been crystallized in the Committee of Inquiry: Investigation committees are an essential control instrument of the National Council. Therefore, we Socialists also advocate that the setting up of committee of inquiry be a right of opposition. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It was about the cover-up of police apes and the cover-up of the abuse of political power in the Ministry of the Interior and in other ministries. Peter Pilz has already pointed out that not all the evidence themes could be dealt with. - We were overburdened with evidence themes. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Yes, because you have decided, stupidly!]] However, the Committee of Inquiry has demonstrated, but also presented solutions to all political unacknowleds despite a large number of misunderstandings. Even the Austrian People's Party, which is extremely distant from this Parliament's control body, I would say, has already made mistakes in the Ministry of the Interior, and at least Federal Minister Platter has provided for changes. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's not true at all! We are...!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This committee has already been among the most successful research committees in the Second Republic, although important issues of evidence could no longer be dealt with. [[Abg. Kößl: cost a lot and didn't bring anything!]] The ÖVP claim, Mr Kukacka, that this committee of inquiry has not produced any results is absolutely wrong. Numerous abuses proved a massive business unculture in the Ministry of the Interior – a grey zone of official abuse and the arts industry, as well as dilettantism and slutting. [[Abg. That's a total misrepresentation!]] Peter Pilz has already pointed out that in the 2006 election campaign the security device against the SPÖ was instrumentalized. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's not true!]] [[Abg. That's not right, you know that very well!]] Mr Kukacka, we have discussed the case of Zogaj in the first place. We conducted surveys. Now I am also speaking as Vice President of the Austrian Data Protection Council: How personal data is handled in the Ministry of the Interior, colleague Kukacka, is a scandal! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] Only the fact that, under the name of officials, abusive data is asked that in another case a secretary is required to access data and then it is claimed that there would have been a break, colleague Kukacka, one cannot accept. [[Abg. Kößl: I am holding back from the accusation! – These global accusations are taking back!]] It has also been found that the Office for Internal Affairs needs to be dissolved as soon as possible. There is no legal basis for this. We need – and this has been the case in Adamovich’s opinion – a legal basis for special commissions; Mr Pendl knows the problems. We know we need a government reform. It's not just a matter of implementing a guard reform. What we need in Austria is, of course, also a reform of the authorities. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We need a very targeted reform of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council in order to ensure that examination committees can work efficiently in the future. That is why we will be committed to social democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34202	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34223	Mr President. High house! [[Abg. Riepl: Is everything wrong, was everything different, gal?]] It is precisely the content, but also the conduct of this committee of inquiry, that the People's Party has rightly confirmed in its conviction that the majority in this committee of inquiry has never been informed. [[Abg. Krainer: But you were in the minority! You're confusing something!]] Adjust the ÖVP to make them bad, as a foreplay and accompanying music to a potentially upcoming election campaign: That was the motto and goal in this House, especially by Peter Pilz, but unfortunately also by you from the Social Democratic Party! With this, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, there has also been discord and conflict in this coalition. And you also bear the political responsibility for this, because you cannot be credible coalition partners in a government and at the same time in the Committee of Inquiry Alliances of the opposition and try to make the coalition partner bad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's the best thing if you say that!]] So one cannot deal with one another if trust is to be formed and worked together! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The fact that this was not a coincidence is also evident from the fact that in this legislative period there have already been three investigative committees in which you have participated, namely the Banking Investigation Committee and the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. [[Abg. Krainer: Corruption belongs to fight!]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, apart from high fees for taxpayers, nothing has actually happened. [[Abg. Krainer: A reform of financial market supervision has come about!]] All possible and impossible accusations were also put together in the Committee of Inquiry for the Office of the Ministry of the Interior. This also meant that the Committee had a clear objective of information. Therefore, it remains our clear assessment at the end of this Committee of Inquiry: It has been a "Kraut- und-Rüben-Study Committee" because it has not succeeded in preparing these 32 topics in an even semi-practicable and legal manner, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of the originally 32 planned issues of evidence, not even eight have been dealt with. There is also a constant mix of political responsibility and criminal processing. This is also the goal of the Peter Pilz: He always wants to be both a sniper and a striker and a prosecutor in one, ladies and gentlemen. He is prosecutor and judge in a person, and this is not possible in a legal procedure. That is why we clearly say: Responsibility for any criminal offences can and should be determined by the public bodies, by the police authorities, by the courts, and political responsibility for abuses and misdemeanors should be determined by a parliamentary investigation committee. In a committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen, you know that very well! – It is not a matter of truth finding and justice in the judicial sense, by judicial standards, but it is always agreed with the majority of the Committee, as the truth has to look at the individual facts and accusations. It is crucial for each party whether it can benefit from party policy. The party political benefits, ladies and gentlemen, have always been the most important to you, and you have never been concerned with information, truth finding and justice. [[Abg. Krainer: As the bad guy thinks he is! You describe your own behavior!]] [[Abg. Kößl: (in the direction of Abg. Krainer) nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it has become a major fiasco for the testimonies of this investigation committee, because the statement of prosecutor Gildemeister in the investigation committee was that he will request the Ministry of Justice to stop the investigations against those who have been constantly accused by Peter Pilz of the abuse of office, namely the former head of the cabinet of Lies Prokop, Philipp Ita, and the other cabinet members Bernhard Triibenreif, Andreas Pilsl and Johannes Rauch, because there is no abuse of office because the accusations were wrong and unfair, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kößl: Haltless accusations!]] Instead, he has said there, criminal proceedings are to be initiated for mispronunciation, slander and abuse of the power of office against the deputies of Peter Pilz, against Herwig Haidinger, and also against Gerhard Schneider, against Roland Horngacher and against Doris Ita. This has been said by the prosecutor as a result of his examinations in the Investigation Committee, but this request has been available for months for examination in the Ministry of Justice. It will apparently only be approved there for electoral reasons only after the election. It is obvious that the Minister of Justice does not intend to make any decisions before the election in order to prevent the official announcement of these criminal requests before the election. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This would mean that the politically motivated accusations and allegations which have been raised so far would have definitely been rebutted and failed. That is clearly what Mrs Berger wants to prevent, and that is not a good style for a Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34417	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34438	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, it does not pay off to exaggerate itself because of things or events that are subject to parliamentary consultation. The consistent – let us say – detestment expressed by Mr Kukacka to this committee of inquiry reminds me a little of the centuries-old doctrine – it was permitted for me to put a little color in the representation – that up to Kopernikus was supposed to turn the sun around the earth and not vice versa. [[Abg. Kößl: That's not true!]] One can, of course, develop a teaching opinion from certain interpretable phenomena. Of course you also have to risk being recognized as false. [[Abg. Rädler: Is that an insight?]] It is true that it was not clearly possible to complete all the work submitted to the investigation committee. You don't need to mention the reasons now. I was actually quite aware of the interpretation with regard to individuals – whether they have said correctly or unfairly or wrongly or quite wrongly, that is completely put in place. [[Abg. Eßl: That's you?]] – No, I don’t like that, but a little bit of thought is worth it sometimes. Sometimes it's worth thinking something out. Look what I want to tell you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There have been objective factors which have demonstrated to the committee of inquiry itself as Parliament's testimony to value, for why has the Committee of Inquiry, the misunderstandings perceived as such? – Because there are individual structural defects in the administration you need to track down. And an improvement, Mr Commissioner of the ÖVP, you will also want - perhaps an improvement not quite successful ruling administrative units. [[Abg. Kößl: However, we do not need a committee of inquiry to do this!]] This is the position of the cabinet within the framework of the administrative and constitutional hierarchy, the position of the employees employed there, who are partly employed as temporary temporary workers and without being subject to civil service law, for example, to disciplinary law, are faced with things in the direct leadership of the ministry. [[Call the ÖVP: All theory!]] For this reason, it is at least extremely problematic if a person who is actually employed under private law works in such a position at the highest administrative level. That's what you'll have to think about. It is also evident that the position of special units – in particular the BIA – at the mere level of a directive or regulation simply cannot be accepted as constitutional and administrative. It is actually not possible to define a freedom of guidance at the regulatory level within the framework of the administration. [[Abg. Where's that? That's interpretation!]] – If you know constitutional and administrative doctrine, you know, believe me it is. There you can get an expert, he'll give me a hand. For this reason alone and for the reasons mentioned above, without being made about any party or about an information person and making them poor or better, it was worth the fact that the investigation committee was set up and worked, and he has worked successfully. [[Abg. Rädler: We would not have needed a committee to do this!]] [[Abg. Kößl: This is in no relation...!]] – Yes, shooting cannons, I don’t do that because I’m annoyed by animal protection, and shooting innocent creatures is not mine at all. Finally, the Committee of Inquiry has also shown – with all the problems that have already been identified – that there is urgent need for improvement in the Rules of Procedure. A large apparatus of the existing malformations could not be processed. [[Abg. Rädler: A lot of money for nothing!]] There is a very friendly attitude on our part to renew the subject matter, at least in some hard cores. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34584	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. The rest of your group's speaking time is 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34605	Put to the point: To be honest, it was not what came out of the Committee of Inquiry: a Ministry of the Interior, in which the executives and executives cannot and do not want to get together. That's what you've got to say, a moral image. On the other hand, a Ministry of Justice, dizzy like a cheese, politically manipulated. [[Abg. Krainer: From BZÖ?]] With allegations and secret documents, policy is made consciously and specifically. There are proceedings in the Ministry of the Interior against employees, against officials who have a procedure for abuse of office. Therefore, I think that we did not come from the starting blocks with the Investigation Committee. That was the real problem. At the very core – the famous BIA, the Office for Internal Affairs, which is truly in need of information – we are not at all preoccupied. That is why, I think, it would be quite decent to look at this BIA once in a separate committee of inquiry. That would be interesting, because that is really an incredible institution. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Kreutner is still following us with advertisements and complaints. He has lost everything, but he is still trying to track members of the Committee of Inquiry. Overall, the investigation committee, as I mean, was informative, but it has hardly really brought relevant things to light.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34648	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34669	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this Committee of Inquiry has achieved very good results – and this has been confirmed by almost all speakers – in this short period of time. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think it is important to simply rethink the legal basis of the BIA, the legal basis of special commissions and the law in cabinets. But I would like to add a few personal words here: ==References== I was first praised here in the High House with Jakob Auerund Josef Cap in May 1983. It was more than 25 years that I was allowed to work with you here for the people in this country. Of course, I felt obliged, in particular, to work for my region, the forest district. I was also granted the opportunity to work in tourism policy – I held the presidency in the Transport Committee for seven years – and I have been able to fight some ostrich there with colleagues Kukacka, in a coalition of course, as it is so usual – and I have been able to hold the Presidency in the Committee on the Interior over the last eight years, which has made me very happy. Overall, I have been parliamentarians with body and soul, and – I do not hide it – it is a farewell that I do not find very easy. But I have made this personal decision because I think you can devote yourself to other things in life at just under 61 years of age, if you have fulfilled such a task for more than 25 years. I would like to say the following: I may have a bit of emotion in me – that says the name Parnigoni – and sometimes my emotion is overshadowed. If I may have insulted someone personally, I would like to make that up again. I'm really sorry, but it was always in service. I would like to thank you very much for all those who have made it possible for me to survive here for 25 years and to move with me a lot. I am particularly grateful to my employees, Klaus Wamberger and Kathi Klement, who have been excellently involved in the Committee of Inquiry. I am very grateful to all the staff members of the SPÖ Club and to the staff of the Parliament, with whom, of course, I was allowed to work in the Security Committee and also in the Building Committee, there were very, very many contact points. Overall, it was a really interesting, exciting and beautiful time for me. I would like to wish you all personally everything, all the best, and of course my group is particularly successful. Good luck! I wish Austrian parliamentarianism that, despite all conflicts in content, ideologically, the personal differences do not become too deep that it is always such that you can look into the eye and still find a way to each other. All right, all right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34726	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34748	Madam President, My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Parnigoni, I think it is also a pleasure for us to respect your long-standing activity. 25 years for a region, for the Waldviertel, to work 25 years in Parliament deserves respect and our recognition. Thank you very much! [[General condolences.]] I personally will also pay tribute to your reconciling words, which have always come to an end in the various, also critical situations and which have also been here today at the end of your speech, although I do not hide that I would be pleased if someone with whom you were praised, namely Klubobmann Cap, would also find such words. We are already eager to see if that will come. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Always!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the real issue, to the report of the Committee of Inquiry, I would like to congratulate someone else as a supplement to one of the previous items on the agenda, because this is also my concern. I would like to congratulate Mr Rudas because, I believe, you have provided a model example of personal success, personal lobbyism success. With the abolition of the study fees you have decided today, you, dear colleague Rudas, are more than €700 a year richer the universities by €150 million a year poorer. [[Abg. Rudas: I'm done studying!]] I congratulate you on this success – I am sorry only for the universities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the Examining Committee: We have been presented with a wealth of points to investigate in this Committee of Inquiry – and this has already been pointed out and stressed several times. This was the result of a political deal, and this shows the aim of such an examination committee as you, my dear friend Ladies and gentlemen, who have used it by majority voting, understand it, not to clarify it, but as a political fight instrument. Therefore, in the end, there was no point in really studying this effectively. If a large number of 20, 30 points of investigation are made in all directions; if the title of this committee of inquiry simply means the task of investigating any abuse of power in that Republic, then it can be imagined that no efficient investigation is possible and that, by doing so, an important control instrument – and this is the investigation committee – unfortunately cannot function, but rather is de-avowed, in the end, it is also reduced to a purely political stage in public perception. That's how you've handled this in the past few months! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Can one of you who has worked in this committee of inquiry seriously claim that he has really read through these nearly 500 000 pages that have been requested and submitted, i.e. these 500 000 pages in these few months? I think that no one can seriously claim this, and that shows the misunderstanding between what is being done and what is ultimately to be done. Therefore: It is a pity that by doing this, an important control instrument of this Parliament is being broken – so you really have to say it. At the next point, I will refer to why it is clear to the EIA that the Committee of Inquiry can only become a minority instrument if some framework conditions are previously changed in order to allow for a fair and efficient investigation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34813	Mrs Rudas has spoken on an actual correction. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the legal provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34837	I'm actually correcting: Mr Donnerbauer meant that I would have voted out of egoism for the abolition of tuition fees in order to save myself money. [[Call the ÖVP:No! He didn't say that!]] The fact is that: I am pleased to have completed my diploma thesis; this semester I will do my diploma exam and then I will be done. I have already paid the tuition fees for this semester. Therefore: The abolition of the tuition fees does not hit me personally, but only the next generation. Thanks to your policy, I was able to complete most of my studies with tuition fees.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34894	The next item is the speech by Mr Hornek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e34915	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A "Regenbogen Investigation Committee" by Rot-Blau-Grün and BZÖ, who wanted to deal with 32 topics with more than 260 persons, and a fileberg that has never been there in the history of Austrian parliamentarism, in view of the fact that the quality of the evidence decision is to be described as dilettant. [[Call to the SPÖ: How was the Euroteam?]] The EIA has already mentioned this at the first meeting. Even the chairman, Fichtenbauer, said self-critically at the last meeting that the decision to prove it might have been a little too far. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: It's not about the evidence decision! The subject-matter of the investigation is the basis of the decision of proof!]] It is not surprising, therefore, that the population has considered this Committee to be a "crout and rubble committee". [[Abg. Neubauer: What are you talking about?]] In addition, this committee has cost the Austrian taxpayer several hundred thousand euros. Mr. Dr. Haidinger, who was presented to us in hand with Deputies Pilz, had already learned in 2005 that there was no intention of extending his position further. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] From this point on, Dr. Haidinger began to collect documents from his point of view, “Provence”, which, in turn, all dissolved into air. My colleague has already pointed out this. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising, therefore, that an independent Commission has come to realize that, despite certain competences, the leadership qualities of Dr. Haidinger are not suitable to continue to provide this position, a leadership position, for Dr. Haidinger. [[Abg. May. Worm: Who has used this Commission?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly striking if someone stores 20,000 e-mails, as a result those who burden him “forget” it does not make available to the Committee. But then they showed up in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you of some of them, because they are symbolic of these 20,000. One of these e-mails, it was published in the “Kronen Zeitung”, ends up as follows, and then Dr. Haidinger concludes with the words – I quote –: Another thing, Matthias: Do not try to beat me in the field of information and especially disinformation. You can't do that as well as I can. - Quote. Another email from Mag. Erich Zwettler and Dr. Haidinger. The last three paragraphs – I quote – are as follows: By the way, I would strongly recommend finally to give a rest here, because it does not help anyone, at least you yourself, and harms a lot of others who are no longer police staff. At most, you can bring the last of the rights to turn away from you as well. I've always kept you the bar so far, but if you really want to know, then I'll unpack. I ask more than politely to stop recommending and last time. We're the BMI and not any SID. If, on the basis of your personality structure, what seems likely to be unheard of is my very well - meaning advice, the blame will be on you alone. (You went to the hospital twice, and that is minutely documented.) No matter if it was necessary or not, no human will believe it. Final sentence: I really have enough of your vanity now. This is unprofessional and degoutant. Drawn: Dwarf Erich. - Quote. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Correct views are these!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] There's nothing to add to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35008	Mr Krainer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35031	Mr Hornek, that was the first time I have experienced that you have really read files. I didn't notice that in the investigation committee. However, what has already been made clear in the Committee of Inquiry is that those accusations that Haidinger has expressed have also proved true and confirmed. [[Abg. That's not true!]] What you've seen is that a political direction against SPÖ in 2006 has been investigated, has been tried to push the BAWAG into her shoes and that the... [[Many calls to the ÖVP.]] I know you don't like to hear that, but that's exactly what it was and it's clear from all the documents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That was the prosecutor!]] The prosecutor was in the committee and said no, he didn't give an order. And all the officials there have said, no, they have not been ordered by the prosecutor, they have only been ordered by the police to do so, and this order came directly from the cabinet. This has also been clearly demonstrated by this committee. This committee has also made it clear how this system worked, not only in the Ministry of the Interior, but also at Grasser. In this questionnaire, which we have now been able to document in detail, the shame was as follows: The officials in the FMA have initially answered it purely objectively, until then at the board level, at the request of the cabinet Grasser has been said practically: You have to work this out and that out more! It then became a political text. The It's a shame. The questions were all read in the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee of ÖVP Members. [[Abg. That's a fool!]] Only in order to know how the EIA has worked and how it is acting in Parliament: You have read the questions in a row. We have word protocols on it; we have looked at the word for word. The best thing is: Do you know who literally quoted Grasser's speech? – Not only Grasser himself, no, FMA board member Traumüller, alternate, literally from the speech paper of the Minister, and also the second board Pribil. Thus, on the part of the ÖVP in the election campaign, a script was written that the questions had been read by the Members and that the alleged independent financial market supervision had literally been quoted from the speech paper of Grasser. This was not only his speech, but also the speech for financial market supervision on the ground. This is a very significant picture! That you still dispute this, although everything is black and white, does not shed a good light on the way you deal with democracy, transparency and parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35150	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore immediately voting on the request of the Committee of Inquiry on the cover-up of police officers and the abuse of political power, particularly in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, but also in the Federal Ministries of Justice, Finance and European and International Affairs, to take note of its report 679 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[01:17:15]] 21. Point Request by Mr Dr. Peter Pilz, Members of Parliament concerning Committees of Inquiry as Minority Law (897/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35201	We'll get to the 21st. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has been subject to a period of until 23. ==References====External links== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. We are therefore going into the debate. It is the first honourable Member to report on the matter. Heribert Donnerbauer with 1 minute speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35235	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, if there were any further evidence that the Committee of Inquiry, as a minority law, could in fact only be a dangerous threat, then it was your speech just a few minutes ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you call it evidence of abuse of power that the police have been following the BAWAG affair, where billions have disappeared, where there is a clear connection and a connection to the union and thus to the SPÖ, when you criticize that you have been following it, then it shows that you are blind to the real contexts and that you do not want to have any real reconnaissance. And it can't be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Summary: We are therefore in favour of creating new framework conditions for an investigative committee so that it can become a real tool for review and political control and not just a fight instrument for individual political interests. However, because this is not the case yet, we are not, of course, in favour of becoming a minority right. First of all, new framework conditions, and then you can discuss the introduction further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35277	The next speaker was Mr Pendl, who spoke at 4 minutes' speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35298	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We have been trying for years, at all levels here in the House, the clubs, the President – the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is There is no such thing as an agreement here before. I am really surprised that a modern Parliament is dealing with one of the most important rights of Members, with the right of control. I can't understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that we are well advised if, in the new legislative period – we know what list of open questions on the Rules of Procedure – we really start to help this new Rules of Procedure break through. One of these issues is, as admittedly, minority law to set up a committee of inquiry. I certainly agree with the chairman's opinion when he says that there is also a number of procedural changes. That's not a question at all. However, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not deal with one of our most important rights so easily. Parliament's control right is of enormous importance. I am already looking forward to the discussion in the new GP with regard to a novel of the Rules of Procedure. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude on a very early basis, but also on behalf of my group, with our fellow Members, with our employees for their services for us, but also for the citizens of our Republic. I think they deserved a big applause. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35344	The next item is the speech by Mr Kogler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35365	Madam President. Yes, I would like to thank you perhaps, but this time to the staff of the House, because the committee of inquiry is always an additional burden. That's what I'm saying. On the other hand, we can already see how our Parliament is actually set up if this is always classified as a special exception, so that we have to make the resources available at all to deal with these committees of inquiry. The last three committees of inquiry in the last two years of this period have all been taken on their own, each in different ways, at least a success story, even if for different reasons they have usually been turned off. Nevertheless, a success story! With the Eurofighter thing, it has become clear how vulnerable our system of payments in all possible channels is. And they talk about possible lubrication payments at the end of the day, and the others say it was nothing. However, there are dubious payment channels, and they have been discovered, from Rumpold to Wörthersee and what do I know where to go? I don't need to repeat that. The Banking Committee, totally underestimated, has also come out much more than you admit. However, he has at least contributed to the reform of financial market supervision, which you have even decided to do so, even with your request, perhaps too little, but at least he has requested, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We would have done that anyway!]] This is from the work and The results of this committee, which you have fought in such a way, are, however, on behalf of the clubman who is sitting right next to you. And also the last investigative committee... – also, I'm talking about another “also” – also produced results that were tangible. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Even?]] Reform needs have also been recognized. Hopefully, there will never be any more cabinets in which the cabinet members think more important than the ministers and the ministers, the ministers do not know what is happening behind the doors, and that still has an influence on the real course of things. We don't want to talk about the usual abuse of power. They have been partially confirmed by excellent file material, file material that you were usually used to blacken in your influence spheres. This will also require rules that will follow minority law when a committee has been set up, so that certain instruments of the Committee will also become minority law. I would give you the right in this respect, because otherwise it really will not do anything. The number must be limited. There are a hundred well-known models for this. We will agree on one thing. Sometime and soon, the ÖVP will no longer be able to close up this “fitness”. Think about it! Get shot in time!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35418	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 102.) [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens, and FPÖ.]] [[01:25:03]] 22. Point Request by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act, BGBl. No. 1/1930, amended (907/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35466	We're now on the 22nd grade. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Constitutional Committee had a period of until 23. ==References====External links== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel with a speaking time of 4 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35501	High house! Madam President. We will not agree to this request for a number of reasons. She's the one who's got it. She's the one who's got it. Today we have seen how a massive change of direction has actually taken place in the SPÖ, with which we have negotiated accession to the European Union and which, led by a Boulevard newspaper, has now been included in a classic anti-EU coalition, which is very unfortunate, because this basic consensus that we are in favour of Europe, that we want to benefit from our opportunity in this Europe, should actually not be disputed. Many very reasonable and important social democrats see this quite the same way, and I refer in this context, for example, to Hannes Swoboda, the SPÖ-EU Parliamentary, who said: This proposal, which you want to adopt today, but which I hope will not have a constitutional majority, is not sustainable. You can't study that kind of thing. - Quote. Heinz Schatz, Mayor of Salzburg, said – I quote –: The EU bashing must finally stop. After a long debate at the end of the 1980s, SPÖ has become a European-friendly policy. This was one of the most important in terms of content. - Quote. Or what others say now, party friends of you from European Social Democracy: “What I hear from the SPÖ is crazy!” said Denis MacShane, at least once State Secretary of the Labour Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore believe that this is a situation in which we should be kept. The way in which you have dealt with an important Commissioner, who by the way is a party friend of yours, László Kovács, is also unfortunate. He is one of the important Commissioners who has a very difficult competence in a very responsible position in the European Union. Just qualify him and say that these are private opinions that are dependent or pressure sensitive to anyone, that's just ridiculous. I know László Kovács well enough. He was Foreign Minister of Hungary at a very difficult time, a courageous man who, by the way, made a contribution to democratic Hungary. And this man and other Commissioners just don't deserve to be qualified by the SPÖ in this way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Return to a reasonable dialogue per Europe! Let this anti-EU coalition, led by the “Kronen Zeitung”, which appeals to the reader’s newsletter pages every day, not even here in the House! It would be a shame. We need Europe, and we want to play a role in Europe. We want to design, not as an outguard, as an outsider, as an outsider at the edge of the field, but centrally, in the middle. We are talking about a Europe that is for us: a social Europe, an economic Europe, a successful one, an ecological Europe. And that's exactly where we're going. – You can accompany us.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35571	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35592	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel, even if you would like to agree with us again and again with dubious allegations: The SPÖ is and remains a party that is fully committed to European unification. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ is and remains a party that the European Union also appreciates as a peace project and wants to develop this European Union into a social Union – with the aim of improving the quality of life of the people, because this is what it is all about. This is also the content of a motion for a resolution which has been submitted to you. I hope you will also agree. Cross-border Europe, the European Union, as we know, is growing in dissatisfaction with the policies of the majority of the European Union. [[Abg. Head: Oh, that's the reason!]] There are certainly many reasons why the confidence of the people in the policies of the European Union - the course of economic and social policy, the speed of enlargement often felt too fast and the lack of proximity to the citizens - and the terrifying results of the Eurobarometer survey and other surveys of the opinion cannot leave us cold. These are warning signals, warning signals that need to be taken seriously, because those who do not take these warning signals seriously are, in fact, at risk of this great and valuable project of European integration. It is therefore urgent to put in place confidence-building measures to regain lost confidence in the European Union. The social dimension needs to be deepened, as we put it in our request. Employment, social security and the safeguarding of public services must be established as an equivalent objective to economic policy objectives. There is also a need for a coordinated economic programme in order to really counter the weakening economy. It must be turned on many wheels, and such a wheel, on which you can and should turn, it is also to involve the population more strongly when the contractual foundations are fundamentally changed. You, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, have referred to the fact that some of the public's personalities have practiced criticism in a variety of formulations, such as "essential change", but this formulation is an important and common part of the Austrian legal system, so that there is no need to worry about it. But it is not yet done with a referendum alone. People's concerns need to be taken seriously, and one of the main concerns of people is exorbitant inflation in the food and fuel sectors. That is why we are calling for a further motion for a resolution to be taken advantage of the next opportunity, namely the ECOFIN Council in October. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: You just rejected this, the request!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This is a concrete demand and not a washer like the one you brought with you! This is a concrete requirement, and you should meet it, because we owe it to people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35710	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Grossmann, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have been properly put in place and are, therefore, also part of the debate. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35829	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35850	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! To Mrs Grossmann and to the SPÖ as a whole: I am pleased that the SPÖ has now given itself a better idea and that the financial transaction tax and that it will be introduced will be positive, as opposed to the afternoon when it rejected it. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Grossmann.]] I am very pleased that our initiative has succeeded in finding the SPÖ's approval. At this request of the liberals: This one, of course, does not receive our consent. We have already said to the public here in this House that national referendums on the Treaties of the EU can be useful, and the National Council can also decide at any time, even as the legislation is already: There is the possibility of optional referenda, that can already happen now! The National Council may decide if necessary. As you now see it – compulsive, in any case – I can only say that it corresponds to what you place, because of EU traitors et cetera. This is the attitude you have, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, and I can only be surprised that the SPÖ is involved. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Yes!]] On the other hand, after this kneefall by Faymann and Gusenbauer, I probably needed to be in front of the “Kronen Zeitung” with the letter of readers, which, for many of the SPÖ’s people, has come across anything but consent, and which many of the social democrats in Europe have also marveled at, not to be amazed at, that you are simply going along with it and saying: That's what we're doing! – From our side there is no such consent. Mrs Grossmann, if you say that SPÖ is and remains a European-friendly party, I reply: I hear the words, I alone lack faith, if you go along with this request of the liberals, who decidically pursue an anti-European, nationalist policy that does not go towards a common solidarity, peace-oriented Europe. – I can only be surprised! [[Abg. Strache: A referendum!? A referendum is already anti-European? Now it's going to be absurd!]] Regarding your request for the social dimension of European integration, which you have tabled: There's a lot of lyrics in there, but he's quite something we also support from the green side. A clarification on this: They write in the last paragraph of this request that there should be an intense, open, committed discourse with the Austrians and the possibility of them having a stronger role in EU policy. – From the green side, we interpret this sentence in such a way that it makes sense to hold Europe-wide referendums, but not national, just to clarify this. In addition, we will also be in agreement with this request. I am now also submitting a request myself: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would remind you that this request was adopted about half a year ago in the context of the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty by ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens, which is word identical. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then we don't need him again...!]] I very much hope that both parties will support this request this time too, because the objective of a Europe-wide referendum on treaties is something I have already heard from the SPÖ. I know that you now have a different opinion... – Mr Strache, you can speak for yourself, you do not need to interrupt me! [[Abg. Strache: Only the Austrians will vote on our Austrian constitution, not the Germans, as you want!]] Our Austrian constitution, Mr. Strache, states that we can hold optional referendums if the National Council decides to do so. Maybe you read it yourself once so you know that your application is not necessary now. [[Abg. Strache: I say yes, Austrian citizens will decide on the Austrian constitution and not the Germans, as you want!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The green side will not, as has already been said, give any consent to the request of the liberals. We are in favour of a Europe-wide referendum and I invite you to give him the consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e35980	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36059	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36081	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! With this request, we would like to give you the opportunity to vote in an area for a referendum which really deserves to be put to the vote to the people, not as on the issues which the Members of the European People's Party, in particular, have proposed in the previous debate. We are concerned about the fact that the conclusion of state agreements must be subject to a referendum if the contractual foundations of the European Union change substantially, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is an important basis for future policy, including the development of the European Union, because we believe that, if it does not go close to citizens in this area, the European Union project will fail. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to make two requests from the FPÖ: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second motion for a resolution is as follows: Motion for a resolution by Mr Strache, Dr. Bösch and other Members on the revocation of the ratification of the EU reform Treaty of Lisbon The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs are invited to do everything necessary to withdraw the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, especially as the ratification process has failed due to the vote of the Irish people.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: I can't do that!]] - Of course! As a result of the referendum in Ireland, Mr Collegue Schüssel, ratification has failed – this is a very clear legal position, and this legal position must be accepted by the European Union – and that is to say, the ratification process must start somehow, especially if the European Union is bringing new elements into this Treaty in relation to the Republic of Ireland and is again a new Treaty. Then, in our opinion, and not only in our view, but also in the view of many other legal experts, it is to begin ratification of new things, Mr Schüssel. Don't always come to us with the European referendum, especially you from the Greens, but also you from the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel:... with decided!]] – The Europe-wide referendum, Mr. Schüssel, is a brain-spinning that we have been pursuing for years and will never be realized! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – You can only use this as a lazy excuse with regard to the rejection of a national referendum on these essential areas concerning the Republic and its development. They are always accusing those who are in favour of national referendums of leaving the European Union. - That's wrong! Those who stand for national referendums want the peoples to go along on the path of the new Europe that you have outlined here, Mr Schüssel, and also colleagues of the Greens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want the European Union to make a reasonable policy within the meaning of its citizens, and we want citizens to be taken along this path into the future too!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36172	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Strache, Mr Bösch and others have been properly put in place, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36306	Mr Klubobmann spoke on business treatment. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36330	Madam President. I would ask you once again to consider whether this second request, which I have just followed, can at all be approved for the vote. As far as I understand it, Mr Bösch asks: The resolution is addressed to the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister that they withdraw the ratification. – This is not at all possible by constitutional law! It cannot be revoked a ratification that has been completed, which is announced in the Federal Act! With confidence said: Such an application cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36372	The next speaker from the government bank is Mr. Dr. Winkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36393	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The legislator of the Federal Constitution – and this is you, honourable Members – has adapted the Austrian legal system and, above all, the Austrian constitutional system in preparation for the accession of the EU and since then, in the changes to the Treaty of Nice and Amsterdam, and has made our federal constitution EU-fit, and this amended federal constitution has proved to be excellent: The Austrian interests can be perceived in the European Union by the Federal Government, by which various ministers are excellently observed – and I would also particularly like to remind you of the Austrian Presidency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last adjustment to the Austrian federal constitution relating to EU treaties has only happened a few months ago. Some things have been made clear, and in particular a very useful and meaningful separation between state agreements in general and EU treaties has been made. That has been quite reasonable. For good reason, since Austria's accession to the European Union, the provisions on referendums have not been dealt with. That was not necessary at all! Mrs Lunacek has already said this quite rightly: There are provisions in our federal constitution which provide for a mandatory referendum when it comes to an overall change in the federal constitution, and it provides for the possibility of making optional referendums when the corresponding majority in Parliament find themselves. [[Abg. Strache: Well, what's that? – An overall change!]] It is right because, I believe, all Austrian constitutional lawyers – at least the recognised Austrian constitutional lawyers – did not have a mandatory referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon. [[Abg. Strache: Mr. Klecatsky?! The Doyen of the Austrian Constitutional Law Klecatsky says exactly the opposite!]] This proposal will therefore amend our federal constitution and it will be amended in a quick procedure. Honestly, honourable Members, the Austrian federal constitution is an important document! It should not be changed in a quick procedure without consultation, without review procedures! I am now very careful to hear what President Prammer said on another occasion about what we can do from the government bank and what we should not do – and I say it carefully, questionable. And it goes completely empty in a point which has not yet been discussed here in the debate: The abolition of the possibility of a simplified change in the contract – and please read this in Article 50 – refers only to the state contracts and expressly not to the EU treaties. This request is therefore not legally clear! I can only hope that what Mrs Lapp has wisely said this morning, in principle, applies that even if a request is quite approved in substance, this request should not nevertheless be accepted if it is not in order. And now quite apart from the question: People's vote yes or no? – You also know my opinion: My opinion is that it does not make sense to make national votes because this does not bring any solutions, because in no previous case a referendum has brought something – but this request is also not in order. I therefore hope that it will not be adopted. As far as this motion for a resolution is concerned, the content of which we have just heard, namely the withdrawal of the ratification procedure, as far as the Treaty of Lisbon is concerned: Mr Klubobmann Schüssel has already referred to the constitutional side – it is not possible! It is also not possible under international law. [[Abg. Strache: But if the contract is obsolete, this will be confirmed by it!]] – International contract law simply does not provide for such a revocation! I can also remind you: Because of a negative referendum, a treaty has by no means died! I recall – and this has been a decision of the Irish people – that the Irish people have already rejected a treaty and have voted on it for a second time. This vote was positive and the Treaty entered into force. I therefore do not see at all – if the Irish people want to and want to vote once again and if this vote is positive – why the Treaty of Lisbon, which brings a lot of positive things forward to us, which would also bring the European Union closer to people, should not enter into force. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36471	Next speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36492	The Secretary of State may be able to answer the questions you have raised. It is no coincidence that there is the discussion on the questions: How can we improve, spread and support the European Union?, but also: How can we influence the policies of the European Union to a more efficient, sustainable extent? – And behind that is the discussion, not only in Austria, concerning the plebiscitary legitimacy, and it is the instrument of the referendum, which is at the heart of this debate, that is mentioned again and again. I think it is an illusion if you make yourself today and say that you are going the same way as before, saying that people simply have to explain Europe better and more prospectuses and, by the way, to interpret as much as possible what the Commission or the Councils decide there. . The European Union is the sum of the decisions of the governments, but of course there is also a Commission, a European Parliament, and in the final effect it seems to be a growing distance between citizens and what the European Union concludes. There is also a growing transparency and the desire to participate in this participatively more. We must take this into account, and whoever does not, takes it into account that this sheer and thus the criticism is getting bigger and bigger. In my opinion, it is he who is at risk of the European project, which is a peace, a social, an economic, a cultural package. If only one considers that a referendum is an obstacle or a threat to the path which one has just taken and which one considers politically right, especially in the current situation in which governments are in the majority of conservative governments, then this is not democratic access, nor is it anyone who increases the legal base and width in the European Union. Indeed, under point 5 of the proposal, the fact that the contractual foundations of the European Union need to be substantially changed is an important term as a criterion, and it also raises the question that there is a referendum only in matters affecting Austrian interests. For the Austrian People's Party, a referendum has not been a taboo in this respect, because it has also said to us in the Government Convention that there should, of course, be a referendum on Turkey. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] – This is, of course, an essential point of contact for the structure of the European Union, it also affects Austrian interests, after all, about 65 to 68 million people with the associated reform and funding requirements. In my opinion, the same will apply in future to reform agreements which have a significant impact on the structure of the European Union and are therefore also of great importance to Austrian interests. Therefore, I do not understand that there is this request-not-the-population-inclusion-hold, especially within the ÖVP, because, contrary to that, I believe that one should open up to the fact that one should go this way, no matter what newspaper for it or against it, otherwise, one should say in reverse, you are the spokespersons of the newspaper X or Y, because it is against it. [[Call the ÖVP: It doesn't matter!]] – This is an unfair form of discussion!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36535	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. On the disputed question of the application: We have discussed this in depth. The application shall be approved, but without prejudice. We can then carry out in-depth explanations later; after a thorough examination of the text, it is, in my view, permitted. We therefore come to the vote and begin with the draft law contained in the motion for a resolution (Doc. 907/A) by Mr Strache, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is the minority. The present draft law was not adopted with the required two-thirds majority, so it is not a legislative decision of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 Z 1 of the business order. [[Abg. Street: It was the majority, but not the required majority!]] We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Grossmann, colleagues on strengthening the social dimension of European integration. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 103.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grossmann and Mr Rossmann, colleagues, on the introduction of a general financial transaction tax at EU level and at global level to combat the global financial crisis and to finance development cooperation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the further development of the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the reorientation of Austrian EU policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I ask the scribes to support me in the narration. – The request was accepted by the majority. (E 104.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the withdrawal of the ratification of the ‘EU reform Treaty of Lisbon’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[01:56:35]] 23. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Helmut Kukacka, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Roads Act 2002 (883/A) 24. Question by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, Members of the European Parliament on Free Public for Boys and Public Development (899/A)(E) 25. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Helmut Kukacka, colleagues on the introduction of an Austrian ticket (903/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36643	We now come to points 23 to 25 of the agenda. With regard to these applications, the Transport Committee had a period of up to 23 years. ==References====External links== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Dr. Moser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36677	President-in-Office of the Council. Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! Mr Faymann, I am pleased that you are also present at a transport debate. We'll take a short look anyway. First of all, it is about the fact that reference data for truck toll valorisation are now being pushed out. We have nothing against the fact that as the deadline always the 1st day. ==References====External links==* Official website May, of course, is unfavourable for the calculation in the automotive industry, which we see – but we do not want to be exposed to a valorization stage now and the cost truth in the transport sector, especially in the truck sector, is new. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution 883/A, which is now also under discussion. On the other hand, we are very much in favour of the fact that what Mr Verkehrsminister did in the morning, namely, the overall attraction of public transport, will finally be implemented with all its strength, and there is a detailed request from us in this regard: It is about increasing the means of ordering, it is about additional millions to ensure that buses and railway connections are really branched, so that a dense network of public transport in Austria can establish itself as a new stage of mobility, so that people can become independent from the car or at least save themselves from the second car and we are finally free of oil prices. That is why my plea to join this concern now – at night or early morning hour – and to reach a decision in the sense of sustainable mobility. A sub-chapter of this attraction of public transport is, of course, the introduction of cheap tickets. We are therefore of course also for an Austrian ticket. – The general abo in Switzerland is the success! The Half Tax subscription is, of course, a prime concern for all public transport – bus, train, tram, train and so on – but we see that with the means currently available to the transport resort, this Austrian ticket cannot be subsidized; it needs additional resources. We are therefore content, from the point of view, quite on your side, Mr Kukacka – but we cannot go along with the funding you describe very fluently with additional resources from the BMVIT. That's why ours – how am I supposed to say it? – Rejection. In total, however, I should like to thank you, Mr Kukacka, for years of cooperation. It was very controversial in some areas. But I could also appreciate your expertise and hope that we will continue in the future – especially after the 28th century. September – at the I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36725	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36747	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mrs Moser, we agree with you on many points in this area. Of course, we also want to put a strain stop to the vignette, and of course we are also voting on the postponement of the valorization date for the truck toll on 1. All right. A shift to 1. However, we will not agree to January 2010, for the following reasons – Mr Hörl is not here now, but he would be interested because this is also interesting for Tirol: On the one hand, this means an income loss of almost €44 million by 2010 for ASFINAG – and the result of €27 million per year. This shift in truck toll-valorization naturally favours foreign fishers, the international transit, and we do not want that. In order to protect the local milling industry, we halved the truck tax in the previous year. The EU Road Costs Directive enables this valorization once a year. Public passenger transport: Mr Kukacka, I am a little surprised that you are just bringing in the introduction of the Austrian ticket because you have not been a friend of public transport in the past. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You really have no idea!]] - No, don't. If I may tell you – please speak later, you will have a microphone! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] They have made a name for the ÖBB staff. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I regard this as an award!]] I'm not telling you this today, otherwise I might get another call for order. The introduction of the Austrian ticket, on which the Minister of Transport has worked for a long time, has failed – and Mrs Moser has already been right there – on the blockade of the Minister of Finance. We shall therefore put forward our own motion for a resolution, which will also ensure financial coverage. On the subject of order promotion, I would like to tell you a story related to the country of Lower Austria: For many months – the Federal Minister knows – I have been on the road with the subject of Pendler. I don't think the ÖVP knows how to write "pendlers". [[Abg. Neugebauer: Well, very funny!]] This is a contract between the state of Lower Austria, the ÖBB and the Ministry of Transport. I have not heard anything from the Landeshuptmann Deputy Gabmann at all. This delaying tactic leads the commuters to add up to it, because on 9 October, they were able to do so. December is timetable change, and if up until then the bus and train offer does not improve, the commuters have the bycheck. - We don't want to. That is why my colleague will submit his own motion for a resolution which also regulates the promotion of the order or the contract of transport services.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36827	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36848	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! With regard to the Committee on Transport's proposals: In recent weeks and months, much has been said about the price; of course, it is obvious that the Freedom Party is also in favour of suspending the inflation adjustment of the passenger car vignette. As far as the Greens' proposal is concerned, there is certainly a great deal of the right thing to do. Mrs Moser is also well-known for her intense and very committed work on this subject. – No question, many proposals are all right. It is only the case, however, that perhaps one or the other is not quite as thoughtful and, in particular, the rural area would also be disadvantaged by the excessive promotion of this half-priced card. For the time being, the development action would have to be carried out and the regional area should be supported accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It's inside!]] An Austrian ticket will be accepted by the Freedom Party, and we can also vote for a total Austrian transport association. As a youth speaker of our group, I am still concerned about the following matter: There is a certain injustice in Austria when comparing school-free trips, apprentice-free trips and student-free trips. There the students are clearly privileged, the apprentices still in part, but the students no longer at all. As we know, students can do so until the 26th century. Year of life – when family allowances are made available – the free movement is used. For apprentices, there is a difference: you can travel to the training centre free of charge, but not if you live in a boarding school. These are sometimes enormous loads for young people and especially for parents, because vocational schools are often hundreds of miles away – some vocational schools are only once or twice in Austria – to which apprentices have to travel very long distances. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This should include the disadvantage of apprentices. However, we also need to be able to introduce a student free ride – analogous to the student and apprentice free ride. This would not really burden the budget heavily, but would be a huge relief – especially for families, but also for young people. I would therefore like to make another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's our request anyway!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support these motions for resolutions. We would help young people and also young families – not only young families but families in general. This would certainly be a good thing to conclude this legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e36941	The two motions for resolutions have been properly tabled, are sufficiently supported and are therefore also under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37044	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37065	Madam President. The Federal Ministers! High house! We want to introduce this Austrian ticket so that public transport will finally become attractive – not only financially, but also from the point of view that it is often very complicated in Austria if you want to use several different modes of transport. You come from Germany, get in the train there, you can't even buy a ticket from Germany to Salzburg throughout, arrive in Salzburg in the early morning at the train station, can still not pay with a card in the Austrian Bundesbahnen and then you need to pay small money for an automatic car at the bus. This does not really create an incentive to use public transport. For this reason – apart from the financially affordable ticket – I think it is very important if you can finally take a single ticket across Austria. That makes it easy. You can get on and off where you want – track or road. And it would also be possible and particularly favourable for the families. That is why I very much hope that you can approach the proposal of an Austrian ticket. By the way, I would like to make an amendment. [[Abg. Broukal: Mrs Colleague, I hardly understand you! It's so quiet!]] – Yes, the microphone has been so quiet all along. I'm asking you to go louder. - It's not like that right now. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It's all that matters in the future, that it's always on the 1st. The start of the truck toll is to be held in January, but we want it not to be on 1st. January 2009 happens because this would result in the index adjustment being made three times within a year. In order to save the companies a three-time increase within one year, we want to save them only on 1st. January 2010. I would ask you to join this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37152	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37233	The next item is the speech by Mrs Zwerschitz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37255	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! And also all bloggers on the standard.at, who are enthusiastic and constantly commenting! – By the way, if you would like to have a chat, you might want to look in there a little bit. It's super exciting what's coming up with comments. [[Abg. Grandruck: What for?]] Today, we discussed the important topic of infrastructure – a total of 17 hours ago. That's exactly what it's going to be all about now. Even the Minister of Transport has to admit early today that we will only be able to compare ourselves with Switzerland in a few years. Austria does not have an overall concept, but rather a flickering carpet as regards the supply of public transport. We need an organisational reform, a financial reform and, finally, a sufficient branching. In addition, there are some incentives for changeover. If we want to use the young public, they must be used to it from a small age; they must learn it and want it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] That is, we want children, apprentices and young people to travel free of charge by public transport. We need a half-price map for public transport throughout Austria, students finally need the opportunity to drive free from the place of residence to the place of study, and we need federal funds for the public. Whoever is travelling by train or by car, who knows how rarely is driven, who knows what car material is being used to, who knows how the railway stations look in part, knows that these 200 million euros a year are necessary. All of this has already been decided by SPÖ and ÖVP Landtag members in a resolution in the Styrian Landtag. They want to call on the Federal Government to do so. And I now urge exactly the Styrian Members who sit here, namely the National Councillors, to listen to their country day colleagues too; these are at least eleven of the SPÖ and ten of the ÖVP. With the Greens who would certainly vote in favour of this proposal, we would then have a distinct vote, which is really in favour of public transport. But I know we need the open ear in Vienna. – This is how it at least promotes a majority party constantly. We know exactly that Vienna had an open ear twice for the Styria – twice when Mr. Landeshuptmann roared: once at the new middle school and once at the Women's Minister or then State Secretary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] I hope that this time the open ear in Vienna really will be available to all Members of this House. Because falling would not make itself paid.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37311	The next speaker is Mr Neubauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37356	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! ==References== In July 2008, a small-format newspaper – or a reader from Erl in Tirol – asked Mr. Federal Minister Faymann whether the popular 7-€ action for the seniors was taken into consideration by the ÖBB in 2008. The Federal Minister has replied that no 7 € action is currently planned for senior citizens in autumn 2008. [[Abg. Broukal: But that was advertised today! It's in the paper today!]] Then, on the basis of massive interventions by the various pensioners' associations – the Austrian Pensioners' Association and the Austrian Senior Ring – thank God for a change of opinion, and the Austrian Seniors' Ring has been informed that at least for this year this action is planned once again – literally: once again. Now you have to know, for example, that in Hungary as a pensioner at 65 years of age, you can travel free of charge by public transport. In Belgium a return trip costs no matter what destination in Belgium, 4 €. We're still far away from that. We are in a different phase of development, I agree. We would wish, however, that the seniors who have made use of this action – of which more than 200 000 people a year have enjoyed it in recent years – will also be able to benefit from it in the future. I therefore put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject and would also like to have broad support in the interests of these public transport participants: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Faymann, I would like your support for this in the sense of the seniors in Austria. Perhaps it is possible to step in with the ÖBB to ensure that this action will continue in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37413	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37471	Next, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37493	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! The introduction of an Austrian ticket is to be supported for various reasons: Such a ticket contributes to the use of public transport, it stimulates the transition to public transport, and it is an important contribution to climate protection. However, I also think that a local transport offensive is very important in parallel, for for example as long as buses in various small cities or small towns in rural regions stop operation from Saturday noon to Monday morning, an Austrian ticket for rural residents is not really relevant. The inhabitants of rural regions do not need to be convinced of the benefits of an Austrian ticket, but it is necessary to expand public passenger transport in such a way that the ticket is actually applicable and thus acceptable. In the present proposal of the ÖVP, the Minister of Transport is accused of not being implemented one of the most important projects of the government programme. However, the proposal for cover for the creation of an Austrian ticket for the ÖVP only exists in internal retranspositions. The Minister of Transport has been trying for months to introduce the Austrian ticket and, as has already been mentioned, failed at the blockade of the Minister of Finance, who did not wish to make available the necessary additional funds. [[Call the ÖVP: Because he doesn't have it!]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that the introduction of the Austrian ticket can also create an attractive tariff offer and can also make a significant contribution to the discharge in view of the general wave of inflation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37551	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37575	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the last item on the agenda on transport during this legislative period to say goodbye to you and the House. I can assure you that it was a pleasure and also an honour to be a member of this House since 1990, after I had been a member of the Upper Austrian Parliament since 1979 and also of the Land Government. I was happy and committed to parliamentarians. Farewell is certainly not quite easy for me and is also associated with a bit of pain. In any case, I have tried to do expert and competent work, as State Secretary, as Transport Spokesman, and last but not least as a political observer, and I hope that I have sometimes succeeded. I have always had a fairly clear word politically, as I mean. If it was necessary, I also went into political confrontation. However, I have also tried not to become personally injurious, and I hope that I have succeeded in most cases. But I also think you should show a clear profile as a politician. Especially as a politician, it is about representing what you recognize as right and necessary, even with appropriate competence, with commitment, even sometimes with passion. In this sense, I wish this House and you all the best personally, also in the interest of Austrian voters. I would like to thank all of you very much, especially the various transport speakers of this House. I would also like to thank you for your support, for your recognition, for your cooperation, but also for some of the legitimate criticisms I have received here in this House. In this sense, I wish you all the best for your future!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37618	Mr Kukacka, I too should like to wish you all the best for your future, just as I would like to ask Mr Parnigoni from this point of view: All the good for your further life course, whatever you have done now! Before we come to the next speaker, I am still saying that the motion for a resolution by Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer has been properly introduced and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37700	The next speaker is Mr Haberzettl. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37722	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate members of the government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is actually a sum of access to the next three agenda items, of which I believe they end up all in one: We want an Austrian ticket, we want cheap youth tariffs to free travel for young people, but – and this shows all the examples in Europe – wherever these favourable and ideal types of tickets were born have always associated with quality criteria. I think this is still missing in Austria. The density and quality of the offer are missing. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that with this motion for a resolution we have also caught up with all the considerations we have in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37792	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e37865	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. Firstly, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fleckl, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Kukacka, colleagues and colleagues included a bill concerning a federal law amending the Federal Roads Act 2002. For this purpose, the Members of Parliament have power. Kukacka, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts of the draft law concerned by the proposed amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Kukacka, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment to point 1. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with its title and receipt, as amended by the 883/A initiative by Mr Fleckl, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets. Kukacka, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever enters for this, I seek a sign of faith. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – That is the minority, so this request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Haimbuchner, colleagues and colleagues on the free movement of family homes for Austrian apprentices. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. This motion for a resolution has been adopted. (E 105.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Haimbuchner, colleagues and colleagues on free travel for Austrian students. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 106.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haberzettl, ladies and gentlemen, on the extension of tenders in public transport. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion to give a sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 107.) Finally, we shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Kukacka, colleagues on the introduction of an Austrian ticket. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 108.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues on the continuation of the 7-€-senior ticket (= ticket) action. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 109.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Lohfeyer, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of an Austrian ticket for all public transport and necessary accompanying measures such as the extension of public service and the promotion of order. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 110.) [[02:33:24]] 26. Point Request by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, Members of Parliament, concerning ‘Rouss from expensive oil and gas – conversion aid for liquefied, clean energy’ (895/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38049	We'll get to 26. Agenda item. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection had a period of up to 23 years. ==References====External links== For oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 has been abandoned. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Bayr is speaking with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38088	A wonderful morning, ladies and gentlemen! On the request we are discussing under this item on the agenda, I would like to make one, as I believe, very sensible alternative motion for a resolution, an alternative request to this €8 billion, which was supported by the ÖVP during the deadline in the special meeting – so much on the subject of filler horn! We are dealing with this request, which I tabled together with Mr Bauer, to ensure efficient use of energy in the field of housing, and which is important to us on the one hand, the renovation of existing houses. On the other hand, we are equally important to the whole area of new construction, in which energy efficiency and economical handling of greenhouse gases must also be taken into account. Of course, any climate action promoted in the housing sector must not, in our view, be an excuse to undermine the right to rent, to undermine legal protection. We want transparency on energy costs and an obligation to provide information on all funding options in order to really exploit everything there is in there for energy saving potential. A very important point for us is the whole issue of boiler conversion, and we are striving for a very wide variety of different solutions. We want a comprehensive Austrian approach, both for urban areas. It should be equally safe for the area as well as for the rural area. We want promotions that meet the needs of individual homes and homes, single-family houses and multi-family houses, and that are always aimed at moving towards low-fuel power, regardless of fossil energy sources. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think this is a very useful proposal, more useful than that which costs €8 billion and has no proposals for cover. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38167	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38275	Mr Head of Parliament is the next one to speak. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38296	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Although Austria is one of the most CO2 efficient countries, we are still a good piece away from our own Kyoto target and have a lot to do in two areas, on the one hand throughout the transport sector and on the other, especially in the area of housing, house fire and so on. The Greens have tabled a request at the last meeting, which addresses the issue correctly, but, as Mrs Bayr has already said, is also somewhat over-ambitioned for us and would eventually consume too many financial resources in too short a time. But it goes in the right direction, that is to say, to start on the development of housing and to achieve the restoration of buildings on the one hand, on the other hand the exchange of inefficient and climate-damaging heating systems. We have prepared an alternative proposal together with the Greens and the BZÖ. He will later be brought in by colleague Lichtenecker. That is why the allegation that we had agreed with the approval of the deadline would be somewhat unfinancingable, quite empty, Mrs Bayr. We just wanted this issue not to disappear from the agenda, but – on the contrary – to be dealt with here today. This has succeeded in setting deadlines. I would ask you to agree to our request. It will bring us a good deal closer to achieving the Kyoto target. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38329	Before I speak to my colleague, Mr Ing. I would like to point out to Hofer that the remaining speaking times in all political groups are due to end – SPÖ 4 minutes, ÖVP 16 minutes, Green 6 minutes, FPÖ 5 minutes, and the BZÖ has no remaining speaking time – so that the political groups can divide time. Mr Hofer, you have made a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38354	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! There is no doubt that there is still much to do for us in the field of climate, environmental and nature conservation, and we must always remember that climate protection/environment protection is a side of a medal that is on the other hand “energy policy”, ladies and gentlemen. As it fits so well on the subject, I would like to inform you of a letter that has certainly been received by the energy and environmental speakers of all political groups, but not by everyone in the House, namely a letter from proPellets Austria. Here is a study presented by Dr. Kurt Kraena of the Wifo, and this study shows, among other things, the following: First: The boiler exchange is an effective means of combating high inflation – a single-family house saves up to €1 800 a year. Secondly, An offensive heating exchange programme could bring annual savings of € 800 million and 11 000 new jobs in the long term. Thirdly, A pellet heating reduces CO2 emissions from a typical family house by about 8,000 kilograms. In his study, Dr. Kratena also says that a heating exchange programme – as proposed by the Greens – which converts 400 000 obsolete oil heaters to pellets would result in a total of 100 million tonnes of CO2 and that this would also reduce our dependence on oil imports. For me, the most important thing is also the financial effect that we have to take into account, because we are spending a lot of money on foreign investment on the purchase of CO2 certificates. Dr. Kratena says that with a 30 percent promotion of total investment, the CO2 prevention costs are 17 € per tonne. In other words, these are domestic investments that also create jobs and free our households from this cost trap. These costs are also below the current cost of CO2 certificates at € 17 per tonne. In other words, it is all the more important to implement these measures domestically. [[Abg. Head: No, no, that's not true!]] Mr. colleague, you say to buy 10 €. [[Abg. Head: 10 €!]] The fact is, these CO2 certificates are speculated. The fact is that everything we buy abroad does not create jobs in Austria and also does not free people in Austria from this cost trap. For today, ladies and gentlemen, social housing is no longer the question of whether I get a house or an apartment cheaply – it is partly also, but not only – but it is also the question whether I can afford the operating costs for this apartment or house in the future. That is why it is so necessary to invest in this area. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, what do we need to do and deal with during the new legislative period? – An Austrian Renewable Energy Act! This is an important goal that we have to implement. For me, the following is also interesting: We have recently had a discussion of all energy speakers, including on this issue, and the energy spokespersons of all parties – for the ÖVP was a member of the state of Vienna – have voted for an eco electricity law, a renewable energy law in Austria, without cover, ladies and gentlemen! So also the energy speakers from SPÖ and ÖVP were for an eco electricity law without cover and therefore also for investment security for operators. In promoting photovoltaics from the climate fund, we also need to think about something. You know, the promotion was granted after 15 minutes; that is, the interest was very, very big. But it was said to the people: Well, there's another promotion programme anyway! – It will come. But now all interested parties are waiting for what this new programme will look like and are not investing. This means that we must, after this election, proceed as quickly as possible to put a new funding programme on the rails so that we can continue to invest in this area. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] We have excellent companies in Austria, which export most of their products, with an export share of 99 percent. There are also new developments that will make these photovoltaic cells even cheaper in the future – the thin layer method. That is, this technology, the energy from the sun, will become increasingly important for us in Austria in the future. We now have to tackle these major tasks as soon as possible for Austria. I hope that this will be achieved by a corresponding majority in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take this opportunity to say goodbye to two people from Burgenland who will no longer be members of the next National Council. These are two ladies, Mrs Lentsch, who will no longer be there, and Mrs Pepper, who will no longer be there. It was very pleasant to work with you, and I wish you all the best for your future!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38424	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. 3 minutes desired speaking time. I announce that, after voting on this item on the agenda, I will vote for Agenda items 3 to 8, this long Croquis, which has been agreed that the political groups have 30 minutes to study these 63 pages. Mrs Lichtenecker, you are now speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38452	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! “Tomorrow has gold in the mouth”, because we decide today to get out of oil and gas! This is a good sign because it is at the same time a discharge programme for low-income households because it is a question of saving energy costs, oil and gas costs in the future. This is an important step in climate protection and also an important step in social policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Greens' request, which is on the agenda, contains very far-reaching measures, but we do not regret the majority. Nevertheless, we hope that in the coming weeks and months, other political groups will have the courage to go this way with us. However, it has succeeded in negotiating a proposal with the ÖVP and the BZÖ, which nevertheless makes a very big step in the right direction. This is what I am proposing, namely the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mr Kopf, Mr Westenthal, Mr President, on the greening of housing development and on heating exchange programmes for increased climate protection and discharge for households. The request will be distributed and I will therefore only explain it in the cornerstones. First of all, we are concerned with the ecologicalisation of housing development. It must end with the promotion of new construction oil heating, and a very essential area is being driven forward, namely the doubling of the rehabilitation rates. We know that 90 percent of energy costs can be saved through renovation, and this will also lead to budget discharges. A very central point is the boiler exchange program. We want to replace 400 000 oil heaters with boilers that rely on renewable energy, in particular about 110 000 individual kilns. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Pellets!]] It is precisely these individual kilns that concern households with low incomes in particular – a very important step in social policy! Mr Bayr, the request made by you, is, on the one hand, very non-binding and, on the other hand, far too far-reaching. [[Abg. Bayr: I don't know yours!]] I believe that the proposal we are making today is a clear task for the next Federal Government to tackle this important project, on the one hand, in terms of climate protection, on the other, as a social policy measure to reduce low incomes and, of course, to create jobs and to strengthen industry in the field of environmental technology, where we also have very good companies in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38511	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been explained in its main points and is sufficiently supported. I leave him according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. So he's negotiating. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38640	Mr Bauer. — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38661	Estimated President! Members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has just been distributed a motion for a resolution; unfortunately we did not receive it earlier. Our request, tabled by Petra Bayrund to me, was already distributed much earlier so that everyone could take a picture. It's fixed, we all know how important the energy turnaround is. That it is easy to introduce to achieve results through many measures and address the issue of CO2. In particular, large steps would have to be taken in the construction of housing. I would just like to address one point because it is always said what is not to be done immediately, but without addressing social tolerance. First of all, it must be recognized that changes must, of course, be linked to funding programmes, because not everyone can simply change from his boiler. There must also be accompanying music to pre-finance these boiler exchange actions, so that you can use the advantages of the boiler exchange as well. All this wasn't discussed. I therefore believe that it is right from the principle that many accompanying measures should be taken, so that even more socially weak people who do not immediately have the necessary resources can share in these actions. In that sense, we have tabled our motion for a resolution. Unfortunately, I only got yours one or two minutes ago. Nevertheless, I believe that the right direction has been recognized by all of us, and we all want to make our contribution to this energy change. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38704	Mr Grossruck has now come to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38725	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Before I speak briefly to the motion for a resolution, I should also like to thank a dear friend who has not spoken today, our dear Karli friend. He's here for the last time after 20 years of activity. [[General condolences.]] I think he is not only called “friend”, but he has become a friend here through his pleasant manner, through his material nature. I know that it is not easy for him to say goodbye – as many or most of them do. Karli, we wish you all the best, that you have it calmer and that you can enjoy the quieter time too! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, briefly to the motion for a resolution – since the red light is already shining –: D’accord, I think it’s a command of the hour that we take all these measures into account, especially – most efficient – thermal rehabilitation. Because, due to the promotion of housing, it is clear for new buildings, there will be built according to the state of the art, and it would be one of his own enemies if he did not build ecologically according to the most modern principles: Passive houses or in the future perhaps even active houses in which he can also gain energy himself. [[Abg. Parnigoni: A four-liner!]] The thermal renovation brings, I think, Kyoto-moderate the greatest effect, and therefore it will be important to go in this direction. There are many models that expect themselves to be almost self-esteem; I think we have to make a big boost. Ladies and gentlemen! It doesn't stay alone in the boiler exchange, but I think that every object belongs to an analysis made once: Where can I save most? Does the window exchange bring me the most? Does the thermal insulation bring me the most, the sealing of the attic, or is it the boiler exchange? – I think you have to talk to experts and then create a list of priorities. But that's probably going to be everything. I can also thank Walter Murauer, who is here the last time today, and you, Walter, too, wish you all the best in the name of everyone, I think they are here. [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] A defensive speaker – continue to be as defensive as ever! Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the end, and I can already bring a four-liner to what happened today. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Four liners!]] I looked at Minister Faymann and I thought: After what is decided today, I would have no good feeling in his skin if I really wanted to become Federal Chancellor. Because he has to make billions of payments to the soup that has been decided today – if he really can do it, I hope not! Let's get out of here. I wish him all the best. Because with what we have decided today, we have not only one of the longest days, but today it was the most expensive day for the taxpayers of Austria! Perhaps the SPÖ has been carried out according to this motto: What does the world cost before the election? We don't care about the tax money. Against what we brock you, Kreisky's team was a savings club. Numbers will have to greet our children – the Faymann brothers!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38818	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to a very, very long vote. I can therefore ask for some attention. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution 895/A(E) by Mrs Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr van Raus on expensive oil and gas - conversion aid for sustainable clean energy. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The ÖVP has no seat meat on the government bank!]] [[Further calls.]] I should like to ask for fewer calls in the voting process. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Sorry!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bayr, ladies and gentlemen, on socially sound energy and climate protection policies in the housing sector. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Head of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, on the greening of housing development and heating exchange programmes for increased climate protection and discharge for households. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – That is unanimous. Accepted. (E 111.) We are now voting on Agenda items 3 to 8, which I am... – please, Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Madam President, may I...?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38910	I can only say this because I've now gotten the Croquis from our club staff – they've seen it through before –: Could we not prefer the one item on the agenda so that I can still look at it? – Otherwise, I have to ask for a break. That's not a problem either. Then we interrupt, I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38934	Mr Klubobmann, I have no problem with that. I said it earlier, and the wish was: half an hour. At 2:00 the Croquis was transmitted, this half hour is already over. But I would like to make the three outstanding speeches and the vote on the last item. But then we have to do it. [[02:59:20]] 27. Point Request by Mr Franz Morak, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code (902/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e38967	==References== Agenda item. With regard to this request, a period of up to 23 years was granted to the judicial committee. ==References====External links== There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First, Mr. Dr. Jarolim. 2 minutes total rest period. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39001	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister! I'm going to take a short look. All we have to do is say: This vote – Mr Schüssel, because it fits into the overall picture of what you have offered today as a whole – has only been postponed because you have put in these two applications in such a way – in itself, business rules, but the content is completely unnecessary – so that you get this shift. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Mr Colleague, speak on the agenda!]] I'm very glad: We arrived at the end of a very nice day, a successful day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one star hour of this House! We have implemented many measures that have long been overdue. Education and equal opportunities are again in the foreground, regardless of origin and social standards. Life has become more manageable again. [[Call to the ÖVP: Value Added Tax!]] And it blows a little wind because the brakes have finally been loosened, although not voluntarily. Perhaps Wolfgang Schüssel could also be a man of the past, and we should be pleased about this, ladies and gentlemen. I think this too is a consequence of today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: After “great”!]] Well, I mean, we didn't get the sales tax, people will certainly notice on Saturday for the first time when they're driving the shopping carterl through the supermarket and figure out what they could have saved. Then you'll see your clubman's nice face and say: “Thank God”, Mr. Schüssel prevented this; all of us have “very much liked” it! Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to anti-corruption law: It is true that in principle we recognise – I believe this applies to all the political groups here – that we need to continue to discuss this, because I too personally and my group feel that the current law is a little out of place. I just mean, Mr Morak, the draft you have presented here goes beyond what has been stated by the Judika-tur up to date, and would therefore be more or less a kind of corruption law. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We will therefore not agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39082	Mr Morak has now come to speak. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39104	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Since the Croquis is still being read here, I think you could leave some time. I'll do the same. At the last Salzburg Festival, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed less about how to evaluate these Salzburg Festivals, neither about Barenboim nor about Boulez, but about a law that has re-regulated the gift acceptance by officials or referees. Stone of the start was the § 304 para. 1 StGB: ‘An official or arbitrator who, for an act or omission in connection with his or her duties, calls for an advantage for himself or for a third party to be accepted or promised shall be punished with imprisonment for up to three years.’ This has caused some greater excitement there, just because – I tell you the problem –: The Salzburg Festival receives about a third of its subsidies via sponsors. And especially with these sponsors, this law has caused some unrest, but also beyond. At all cultural organisations, sports organizers, organizers of scientific symposia and so on, a certain uncertainty has occurred. Mrs. Federal Minister, we should take the view that we are going to undergo an examination of laws that we have passed here and which in practice have not really proved successful. Perhaps this path we've been pointing out is one that's going on for you. I looked at it: What does “officekeeper ” mean? – Any person who has an office in law, administration or justice for Austria, for another State or for an international organisation, or who is otherwise entrusted with public tasks, including those in public undertakings, with the exception of members of national constitutional bodies, i.e. land days, national councils, federal councils and so on. So I don't want to mention the problem now, for example, that the director of the holding of the Bundestheater visits the Salzburg Festival with a free ticket, with which he is at the same time in a business cooperation, because he also has the stage images made there. Is that already “fed, ” yes or no? Let's just go from this horror show, Mrs. Federal Minister, that, for example, at the opera ball, the entire German government is sitting in a big log for €150 000, for nothing, and then the Federal President goes to his log without paying any fee, and the Federal Chancellor is waiting for the other side without paying any pay, and the prosecutor is waiting behind it. We all don't want to. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39155	It has now informed Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Berger. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39176	Madam President. High house! First of all, I should like to remind you that these provisions have been introduced by the Criminal Law Change Act 2007, in accordance with a detailed review procedure, after deliberations in the Justice Committee of this House, and that they have also received very great approval here in this House. With these changes, we have implemented international legal obligations and also examples of how they apply in Germany and Switzerland. This applies in particular to the “feeding ” addressed. These are regulations that apply in Germany and Switzerland, and we have proposed them for Austria, and they have been adopted here. I know, and of course I was also mentioned several times that there has been some uncertainty here, especially in the field of culture, but also in the field of sports. We are constantly engaged in discussions with institutions that are also directly addressing us. These conversations continue. In these direct discussions, we can explain virtually 90 percent of the case constellations, namely that these are usually not covered by these provisions. There is a residual stock that is likely to be clarified only by a new legal regulation, and I have also offered to do so in peace and with a view to this revision after the elections. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In this embarrassment you will not come!]] Only: The current own-initiative proposal, which I must say already, goes far behind the legal situation which is in force until 2008 and legalizes ways of conduct, of which I believe that the applicants cannot really do so. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We wish you all the best!]] If it is legal for a pharmaceutical group to invite a department head from the Ministry of Health with Gattin to the Caribbean for 14 days, two days congress, rest of the framework program, then I do not think that this would really be in the sense of strengthening the reputation of the public institutions. An official of the Court of Auditors who is invited with her husband by a close-to-state company, for example, to the Salzburg Festival with all the drums and dran – tickets, dinners and stays – that was punishable even before our changes. They are now also opening up what has been punishable for a long time. I admit that we need a regulation here. This should be done with an eye and with respect to our international commitments. I would ask you not to support this initiative, but to make reasonable new arrangements.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39247	Now comes Mr Mag. Steinhauser. 3 minutes Total residence time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39268	Ladies and gentlemen! Only today – or actually you should say: yesterday – has been noted in the “Kurier” that Austria has made three places in the anticorruption ranking and now the 12. Take a seat. That is a great success. It is above all a success because this was possible in spite of the ÖVP and its refusal towards transparency. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This proposal here again proves how to deal with this sensitive issue. In the last minute of this legislative period, Husch-Pfusch is bound up with questionable formulations of the anticorruption law. I would just like to read to you your own wording, because I find it remarkable. They want to be free of punishment if one accepts only “instantial” an socially recognised advantage. This is legislative, because you have not only defined the economy of friends, but also wanted to be laid down in the law. [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: A coffee!]] This is a remarkable achievement that you will deliver here towards the end of the legislative period. One should therefore be clear: Don't change something quickly. If there is a need for change, you can look at it in peace. It is also about implementing international conventions, namely the international UN Convention against Corruption. I think that we should take these anti-corruption provisions seriously, really take them seriously, because in one point this House has failed in this anti-corruption convention: in the case of the corruption of Members. In December last year, this House protected itself with an extremely mild state of corruption for Members. We have not implemented the UN Convention against Corruption on this point – and this has already been noted, that has been observed internationally. I mean, at the end of the legislative period today, there is the last chance to do so. That is why we are also making a request to implement the UN Convention. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a sensible measure. Show your attitude, agree! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39329	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39394	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now proceed to the vote on the draft law on a federal law which amends the criminal code contained in Mr Morak's motion for a resolution (902/A) by Mr Morak, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Steinhauser, colleagues in relation to parliamentary corruption. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[03:12:36]] Votes on agenda items 3 to 8
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39446	We shall now proceed to the vote on Agenda items 3 to 8, which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. First of all, we shall vote on the 2008 draft law on social law amendment in the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, and Mr Colleagues. For this purpose, the following applications and requests shall be made: Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, colleagues, Request for a separate vote by Mr Öllinger, colleagues on the supplementary and amending amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr Cots, Amendment or amendment by Mr Dolinschek, ladies and gentlemen, Request for a separate vote by Mr Dolinschek, ladies and gentlemen, on the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues, Mr Csörgits, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Kickl, Mr President, Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Amon, colleagues, Request for a roll-call vote on paragraphs 5 and 6 of the supplementary and amending amendment tabled by Mr Amon, colleagues, Mr Amon, my fellow Members, and, finally, Request for a separate vote by Members Amon, ladies and gentlemen. I am therefore going to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to above and the request for separate votes, as well as on names of votes, in accordance with the classification of the draft law. Finally, let us vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been agreed. Amon, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraph 1 in Article 1. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1(1) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Who is for this, I am looking for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall be voting separately on the amendment tabled by Members Dolinschek, colleagues on Rule 1(2). Who is for this, I am looking for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1(2) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Members of the Amon, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of new points 2a and 2b in Article 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. That is rejected. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article 1(3). If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1(3) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall be voting separately on the amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues, on Rule 1(4), (5) and (6). I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We come to the separate vote on Rule 1(4), (5) and (6) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request to insert a new paragraph 6a in Article 1. Whoever gives this supplementary request the approval, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President, have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of new points 6a and 6b into Article 1. Whoever gives the consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article 1(7). A vote has been required for this purpose. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Article 1(7), as amended by the amendment tabled by Amon, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote. I now ask the author, Mrs Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call; Member of the European Parliament Auer will then replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39631	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39669	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 178, of which 'Yes' votes: 64, No votes: 114. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Article 1(7), as amended by the amendment tabled by Members Amon, colleagues, is therefore rejected. [[New condolences with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Einwallner, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Finz, Franz, Freund, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr Hermann, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haubner Peter, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Kainz, Kapeller, Karl, Koßl, Kukacka; Lentic; Maier Ferdinand, Mikesch, Missethon, Mitterlehner, Morak, Murauer; Neugebauer Fritz; Obernosterer; Pack, Praßl, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Riener Barbara; Schelling, Schittenhelm, Schultes, Schussel, Sieber Norbert, Sonnberger, Spindelegger Michael, Stadler Astrid, Steibl Ridi, Steindl Konrad, Stumvoll; Tamandl; Woeinger; Zweytick. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Aspöck; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier, Bösch, Broukal, Brosz, Bucher, Bures; Cap, Csörgits; Darmann, Dobnigg, Dolinschek; Ehmann; Faul, Fazekas, spruce builder, stainl, filler; Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grossmann, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Heinzl, Hell, Hlavac, Hofer, Hradecsni, Hursky; Jarolim; Kaipel, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Knoll, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kurzmann, Kuzdas; Lapp, rivets, lights, lohfeyers, luegers, lunaceks; Maier Johann, Mandak, Marizzi, Mayer Elmar, Mayerhofer, Moser, Muchich, Muttonen; Nekula, Neubauer Werner, Niederweiser; Oberhauser, Oillinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Prehauser, Prammer; Riepl, Cursor Sylvia, Rossmann, Rudas; Sburny, Sound, Treasure, Scheibner, Schönpass, Schopf, Spindelberger Erwin, Stadlbauer, Stadler Ewald, Duster, Steier, Steinhauser, Strache; Themesl, Trunk; Vilimsky, Vock; Wechner, Weinzinger Brigid, Weinzinger Lutz, Wenninger Hannes, Westenthaler, Wimmer, Wittmann, Wurm; Singer, Zinggl, Dwarf.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39865	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1(7) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall be voting separately on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, Mr President, on the insertion of a new point 8 in Article 1 and the resulting point. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Members of the Amon, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(8), paragraph 617. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Article 1(8) 617, as amended by the amendment tabled by Amon, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote. I now ask Mrs Hagenhofer to start by calling for a name; Member of the European Parliament Auer will then replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39946	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e39984	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 179, of which 'Yes' votes: 65, No votes: 114. Article 1(8), Section 617, as amended by the Amon amendment, is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Einwallner, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Finz, Franz, Freund, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr Hermann, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Hakl, Haubner Peter, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Kainz, Kapeller, Karl, Koßl, Kukacka; Lentic; Maier Ferdinand, Mikesch, Missethon, Mitterlehner, Morak, Murauer; Neugebauer Fritz; Obernosterer; Pack, Praßl, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Riener Barbara; Schelling, Schittenhelm, Schultes, Schussel, Sieber Norbert, Stadler Astrid, Steibl Ridi, Steindl Konrad, Stumvoll, Sonnberger, Spindelegger Michael; Tamandl; Woeinger; Zweytick. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Aspöck; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier, Bösch, Broukal, Brosz, Bucher, Bures; Cap, Csörgits; Darmann, Dobnigg, Dolinschek; Ehmann; Faul, Fazekas, spruce builder, stainl, filler; Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grossmann, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Heinzl, Hell, Hlavac, Hofer, Hradecsni, Hursky; Jarolim; Kaipel, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Knoll, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kurzmann, Kuzdas; Lapp, rivets, lights, lohfeyers, luegers, lunaceks; Maier Johann, Mandak, Marizzi, Mayer Elmar, Mayerhofer, Moser, Muchich, Muttonen; Nekula, Neubauer Werner, Niederweiser; Oberhauser, Oillinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Prehauser, Prammer; Riepl, Cursor Sylvia, Rossmann, Rudas; Sburny, Sound, Treasure, Scheibner, Schönpass, Schopf, Spindelberger Erwin, Stadlbauer, Stadler Ewald, Duster, Steier, Steinhauser, Strache; Themesl, Trunk; Vilimsky, Vock; Wechner, Weinzinger Brigid, Weinzinger Lutz, Wenninger Hannes, Westenthaler, Wimmer, Wittmann, Wurm; Singer, Zinggl, Dwarf.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e40166	We shall come to a separate vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues, on Rule 1 § 637. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 1(8) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We come to the separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, colleagues, which refers to the insertion of a new paragraph 9 in Article 1 concerning ‘One-time payment for 2008’. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of Parliament Csörgits, Dolinschek, Kickl, colleagues have tabled an additional proposal, which includes the insertion of a new point 9 in Article 1 concerning ‘Energie Cost Grant’. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. Amon, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraph 1 in Article 2. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2(1) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the amendment tabled by Members Dolinschek, colleagues and others on Rule 2(2). I ask those members of the House who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2(2) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request for the insertion of new paragraphs 2a and 2b. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article 2(3). Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2(3) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues, on Rule 2(4), (5) and (6). I ask those members of the House who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2(4), (5) and (6) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Whoever is for this, I am looking for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the inclusion of new points 6a and 6b in Article 2. I would ask those members of the House who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article 2(7). Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2(7) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'm looking for a sign in case of consent. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall be voting separately on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, Mr President, on the insertion of a new paragraph 8 in Rule 2 and the resulting amendment to the numbering. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Members of Parliament Amon, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2(8), Section 306. Whoever joins this amendment, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall be voting separately on the amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues on Rule 2(321). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President, have tabled an amendment relating to Article 2(8). I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, in favour of this Rule 2(8) of the motion for an initiative 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, and others, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, colleagues, and others, to give us a sign of concern. - That's the majority. Accepted. We come to the separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, colleagues, which refers to the insertion of a new paragraph 9 in Article 2 on ‘One-time payment for 2008’. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Members of the Csörgits, Dolinschek, Kickl, colleagues have tabled an additional proposal, which includes the insertion of a new point 9 in Article 2 concerning ‘Energie Cost Grant’. Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraph 1 in Article 3. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3(1) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Who is for this, I am seeking a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall be voting separately on the amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues on Rule 3(2). Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the separate vote on Rule 3(2) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request for the inclusion of new points 2a and 2b in Article 3. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – That is the minority and therefore rejected. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article 3(3). Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3(3) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall be voting separately on the amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues, on Rule 3(4), (5) and (6). Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall be voting separately on Rule 3(4), (5) and (6) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new points 6a and 6b into Article 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article 3(7). Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on Rule 3(7) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall be voting separately on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, Mr President, on the insertion of a new paragraph 8 in Article 3 and the resulting amendment to the numbering. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article 3(8), paragraph 295. Whoever gives the approval to this amendment, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall be voting separately on the amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues on Rule 3(3)11. Whoever agrees to this request, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President, have tabled an amendment concerning Article 3(8). Whoever gives the approval to Rule 3(8) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr Cockl, as amended by the amendment, I would like to ask for a sign of this kind. - That's the majority. Accepted. We come to the separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, colleagues, which refers to the insertion of a new paragraph 9 in Article 3 on ‘One-time payment for 2008’. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Members of Parliament Csörgits, Dolinschek, Kickl, colleagues have tabled an additional proposal, which includes the insertion of a new point 9 in Article 3 concerning ‘Amount on energy costs’. Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment on Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law, as amended by the 889/A initiative by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Members Amon, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment which refers to the deletion of paragraph 2 in Article 8 and to the resulting amendment to the numbering. Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. – That's the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on Rule 8(2) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. - That's the majority. Accepted. We come to the separate vote on the supplementary request of Members Csörgits, Kickl, colleagues, referring to the insertion of a new point 2a in Article 8 on ‘Single payment for 2008’. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Members of the Csörgits, Dolinschek, Kickl, and colleagues have tabled an additional proposal, which includes the insertion of a new point 2a in Article 8 concerning ‘Amount on energy costs’. Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request to insert a new point 2a in Article 8. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article 9(2). Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We come to the vote on Rule 9(2) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Amon, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to Article 9(3). Whoever agrees to this request, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on Rule 9(3) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is unanimously accepted. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article 9(4). If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9(4) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Amon, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which includes the deletion of paragraph 5 in Article 9 and the resulting amendment to the reference number. Whoever agrees to this request, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9(5) of the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Members of the Amon, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment which refers to the deletion of Article 10 and the resulting amendment to the Article designations. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall come to a separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President, which includes the insertion of a new paragraph 2 in Rule 10 and the resulting amendment to the paragraph description. Whoever gives this supplementary request the approval, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Csörgits, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Kickl, Mr President, have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 2 into Article 10 and the resulting amendment to the numbering. Whoever joins this supplementary request by Mr Csörgits, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Kickl, Mr Cots, I am looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of Parliament Csörgits, Kickl, colleagues have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of a new § 113d in Article 11(3) (new) concerning ‘adaptation factor’. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Members of Parliament Csörgits, Dolinschek, Kickl, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of a new § 113d in Article 11(3) (new) concerning ‘Amount on energy costs’. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, colleagues, concerning the insertion of a new § 113e in Rule 11(3) (new). I ask those Members of the House who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional proposal to include the insertion of a new § 17f in Article 12(3) (new) concerning ‘adaptation factor’. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. – This is unanimously accepted. In addition, MEPs Csörgits, Dolinschek, Kickl, and colleagues have tabled an additional proposal, which includes the insertion of a new § 17f in Article 12(3) (new) concerning ‘amount on energy costs’. Whoever gives the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, colleagues, concerning the insertion of a new § 17g in Rule 12(3) (new). If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of Parliament Csörgits, Kickl, colleagues have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of a new section 98d in Article 13(3) (new) concerning ‘adaptation factor’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Members of Parliament Csörgits, Dolinschek, Kickl, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new articles 98d and 98e in Article 13(3) (new) concerning ‘a grant for energy costs’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, colleagues, concerning the insertion of a new § 98e in Rule 13(3) (new). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of Parliament Csörgits, Kickl, colleagues have tabled an additional proposal which includes the insertion of a new section 98f in Article 13(3) (new). If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of Parliament Csörgits, Kickl, colleagues have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new § 15e into Article 14(3) (new). I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who give him the approval to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of Parliament Csörgits, Dolinschek, Kickl, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new § 15e into Article 14(3) (new) concerning ‘a grant for energy costs’. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, colleagues, concerning the insertion of a new § 15f in Rule 14(3) (new). Whoever gives the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the motion for a initiative 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote at third reading. I have received a request from Mr. Dr. Cap, through which, within the meaning of § 74 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure should be resolved in contradictions resulting from the second reading of the decision. The application has the following content, which I would like to inform the House of: Article 1 ASVG § 638 to § 639; Article 2 GSVG § 322 to § 323; Article 3 B-SVG § 312 to § 313; Article 11 Sacrifice Care Act § 113d to § 113e and § 113e to § 113f; Article 12 Victim Care Act § 17f to § 17g and § 17g to § 17h; Article 13 Heeressorgungsgesetz § 98d zu § 98f und § 98e zu § 98g as well as § 98f to § 98h and Article 14 of the Criminal Sacrifice Act § 15e to § 15f and § 15f to § 15g. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have tabled the motion of Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Schüssel, on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Business treatment!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e40231	No, I'm not asking for a roll call vote. Just, honestly, that's what we've seen: It is totally unthinkable – and this is exactly the problem that the Green Clubman has also pointed out – that we can check what it actually looks like! That is why we will not vote in favour of this vote, but rather not because we are against everything, only: This is something you need to prepare properly! And this is a real husk that's being made here! [[Call at the SPÖ:Work before!]] I just want to hold this once. That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e40263	On the Rules of Procedure: Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e40287	This is, of course, not Husch-Fuch, but we only ensure that there is complete formal certainty. – That’s just an excuse from you! They don't want that in terms of content. Don't talk this way, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e40322	I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Cap's request to resolve contradictions to give a signal. – This is accepted by a majority. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e40484	We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law at third reading, taking into account the just-decided request to resolve contradictions. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Well, now it's all right!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ollinger, colleagues, on one-time payment of €150 for all pensions with income below €747. I call on the ladies and gentlemen to give this motion for a resolution a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues on the permanent anchoring of the long-term insurance scheme. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are giving this motion for a resolution a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 112.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament on transitional arrangements in the long-term insurance scheme. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 113.) We now proceed to the vote on the draft law contained in the motion for a resolution 901/A by Amon, colleagues and others concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Security Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and other laws. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law contained in Amendment 905/A by Amon, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the WAV Act, the Sacrifice Care Act, the Military Supply Act and the Crime Sacrifice Act. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Stache: Well, a strong sign!]] We shall also vote on the draft law on a federal law which amends the General Social Security Act and the Civil Health and Accidental Insurance Act, contained in the motion for a resolution 906/A by Amon, colleagues and colleagues. To this end, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment. Since only one request was made, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, which was included in the motion for a resolution 906/A by Mrs Amon, my fellow Members, and on the title and receipt of the amendment tabled by Mr Hellerer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution 911/A(E) by Mrs Kickl, colleagues, on the adjustment of pensions according to the price index for pensioners without waiting time. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 114.) Finally, we shall vote on the amendment 916/A tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues included a bill concerning a federal law amending the ASVG, the GSVG and the Farm Social Insurance Act. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give them their consent. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[04:10:07]] Decision on the end of the 2008 ordinary meeting, President Mag. Barbara Prammer: I have the following request: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the 2008 ordinary meeting of XXIII. legislative period at the end of the 72. declare an end to the meeting of the National Council.’; I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[04:10:10]] Reading of a part of the official protocol President Mag. Barbara Prammer: I have a written request from 20 Members, the Official Protocol on the decision to terminate the 2008 ordinary meeting of XXIII. To read the legislative period so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the meeting. ‘There is an application for the early termination of the 2008 ordinary meeting (Annex D). Furthermore, according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members on the reading of the official protocol concerning the decision to terminate the ordinary meeting of 2008 (Annex E).’ .The President of the Federal Republic is asked to attend the 2008 ordinary meeting of the XXIII. legislative period at the end of the 72. Declaration of termination of the meeting of the National Council.’ On the basis of the request of Supplement E, the President shall lose this part of the Official Protocol. No objections shall be raised against this part of the Official Protocol.’ Are objections to the version or content of the read parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The selected parts of the Official Protocol are therefore valid in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of the sitting, as approved. [[04:12:04]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00072_d8e40636	I am still announcing the introduction of motion 926/A at today's meeting of the self-employed. Question No 4995/J to 5055/J has also been received. Ladies and gentlemen! That is what we are at the end of this sitting, including at the end of the XXIII. legislative period. At this point, above all, all those who are no longer candidates and who deliberately leave the House, I should like to see everything good. There are a lot of things I've heard. I wish you all personal well-being, all good! The President of the Federal Republic will be – he has already announced – on 28 March. October 2008, i.e. on the day of the Constituent Meeting of XXIV. The legislative period, which shall be the year following the date of Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. There we will see each other again and hopefully spend a few nice hours in a pleasant setting. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] The sitting is closed.
