ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e1318	The 71. The meeting of the National Council is open. [[19:03:38]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e1343	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[19:03:58]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e1768	Now I'm asking for concentration: There will now be the notification of 53 requests for deadlines, and I would ask each group to see whether all their applications are fully mentioned. I announce the submission of the following requests for deadlines, in the order in which they are presented: Request by Mrs Moser, colleagues, to the Transport Committee for reporting on Amendment 899/A(E) by Mrs Van der Bellen, Ladies and gentlemen, free public for young and public development offensives, a period of up to 23 years. September 2008 Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 898/A(E) by Dr Van der Bellen, colleagues on Capital Gains Tax (Capital Gains Tax) a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, the Family Committee for Reporting on Amendment 894/A(E) by Mr Van der Bellen, on the income-related childcare allowance, to be sent to Glavischnig-Piesczek for a period of up to 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Pirklhuber, Members of Parliament, to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for reporting on amendment 872/A(E) by Mr Pirklhuber concerning moratorium on agrofuels September 2008 Request by Dr Pilz, colleagues, to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on Amendment No 897/A(E) by Mr Pilz, Mr Mag. Kogler concerning committee of inquiry as minority law a period of up to 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Brosz, Members of Parliament, to the Committee on Education for Reporting on Amendment 896/A(E) by Mrs Van der Bellen, Dr Glawischnig on Free Kindergarten from the first year of life, a period of up to 23. September 2008 Request by Dr Lichtenecker, ladies and gentlemen, to the Environment Committee for Reporting on Amendment 895/A(E) by Mrs Van der Bellen, Dr Glawischnig, on ‘Rouss from expensive oil and gas – Turnover aid for liquefied and clean energy’, on a deadline until 23. September 2008 Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Rossmann, colleagues, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 842/A by Mr Mag. Rossmann with regard to the increase in the tax rate of the foundation, a period of up to 23. September 2008 Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Lunacek, colleagues, the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights to report on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 3/A) by Mr Mag. Ulrike Lunacek on a federal law establishing the Federal Law on the Civil Pact, a period of until 23. September 2008 Request from Members Dr. Glawischnig, the Equal Treatment Committee for Reporting on Amendment 566/A(E) by Member Dr Glawischnig, colleagues concerning the introduction of a legally binding proportion of women on the Board of Governments and on the Supervisory Boards of listed companies, a period of time of up to 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Öllinger, fellow Members, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 846/A by Mr Öllinger, colleagues, on the health insurance scheme for health insurance September 2008 Request by Mr Mandak, ladies and gentlemen, to the Family Committee for Reporting on Mr Mandak's motion for a resolution 357/A concerning a federal law establishing a four-week right of exemption for fathers after the birth of their child ("father's month") a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request from Members Dr. Pilz, colleagues, the Committee on Internal Affairs to report on Amendment 844/A by Mr Pilz concerning a federal law amending the 1991 Security Police Act, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request from Members Ridi Steibl, the Family Committee for Reporting on the motion 900/A of Members Ridi Steibl, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Ridi Steibl, the Family Committee on Reporting on the motion for a resolution 904/A(E) by Mrs Ridi Steibl, Mr Silvia Fuhrmann, colleagues on the further development of the child care allowance - Offer of an income-dependent variant in the interests of families a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Morak, fellow Members, to the Committee on Justice for a report on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 902/A) by Mr Morak, colleagues, on a federal law amending the Criminal Code, a period of time of until 23. September 2008 Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Kukacka, Transport Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 903/A(E) by Mr Mag. Kukacka, Wöginger, Members of Parliament concerning the introduction of an Austrian ticket until 23. September 2008 Request from Members Amon, colleagues, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion 901/A of Members Amon, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act, the Commercial Social Security Act and other laws, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request from Members Amon, colleagues, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Amon's motion 905/A, Dr. Stummvoll, Grillitsch concerning a federal law amending the War Victim Care Act, the Victim Care Act, the Military Supply Act and the Crime Sacrifice Act, a period of until 23. September 2008 Request from Members Amon, colleagues, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 906/A by Mrs Amon, Dr. Stummvoll, Grillitsch on a federal law amending the General Social Security Act and the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act. September 2008 Request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on the proposal for a initiative 916/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner, Dolinschek concerning a federal law that amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act for the introduction of a Pension Adjustment as early as the first year after retirement, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on the proposal for a initiative 917/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner, Dolinschek concerning a federal law amending the Workers' Chamber Act 1992 to relieve the contribution of low-income persons, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on the proposal for a initiative 918/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner, Dolinschek concerning a federal law establishing a heating compensation fund, a period of until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on the proposal for a initiative 919/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner, Dolinschek concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act and other laws, a period until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Financial Committee for Reporting on the Proposal for a Initiative 920/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner, Dolinschek concerning a federal law amending the 2008 financial compensation law to limit municipal charges, a period of until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on the proposal for a initiative 921/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner, Dolinschek concerning a federal law amending the Family Allowance Act 1967 to reintroduce a birth grant, a period of until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Financial Committee for Reporting on the own-initiative proposal 922/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner, Dolinschek concerning a federal law amending the 1995 Mineral Oil Tax Act, a period of until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Financial Committee for Reporting on the Proposal for a Initiative 923/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner, Dolinschek concerning a federal law granting a tax bonus for 2008 for wage and income taxpayers a deadline until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Financial Committee for Reporting on the own-initiative proposal 924/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner, Dolinschek concerning a federal law amending the 1994 VAT Act on the reduction of the turnover tax on medicines, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Financial Committee for Reporting on the Initiative Proposal 925/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner, Dolinschek concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988 on the tax exemption of overtime supplements, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Strache, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 907/A by Mr Strache, Dr. Bösch and colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Strache, the Committee on Internal Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 908/A by Mr Strache, Mr Vilimsky, Mr Mayerhofer, on the establishment and residence law, on a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Strache, the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on request 909/A by Mr Strache, Mr Vilimsky, Mr Mayerhofer on asylum law 2005 a deadline until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 910/A by Mr Lutz With regard to a federal law amending the 1995 Mineral Oil Tax Act, a period of until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Kickl, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, to report on Amendment 911/A(E) by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the adjustment of pensions in accordance with the price index for pensioners without waiting period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 912/A(E) by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the discharge of citizens, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Kickl, Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, on reporting on motion 913/A(E) by Mr Kickl, Mr Neubauer and Mr Ing. Courts with regard to the anchoring of the long-term insurance scheme in the permanent jurisdiction of a period of up to 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Themessl, Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 914/A(E) by Mr Themessl, Mr Lutz Weinzinger, Mr Ing. Courts and other Members with regard to the discharge of economic operators until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Strache, the Legal Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 529/A by Mr Fichtenbauer, concerning the amendment of the Federal Law on the Actions Threatened by Judicial Penalty (Strafgesetzbuch), a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Strache, the Justice Committee to report on Mr Fichtenbauer's motion for a resolution (757/A) concerning the amendment of the Federal Law on the acts which are subject to judicial penalties (Strafgesetzbuch) for a period of up to 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Strache, the Legal Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 759/A by Mr Fichtenbauer, concerning the amendment of the Federal Law on Actions Threatened by Judgment (Strafgesetzbuch), a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Fichtenbauer, the investigative committee on the cover-up of police officers and the abuse of political power, in particular in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, but also in the Federal Ministries of Justice, Finance and European and International Affairs, pursuant to § 43 GOG-NR, a deadline for the submission of a written committee report until 23. September 2008 Request by Members Haberzettl, Bucher, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 915/A by Mr Haberzettl, Bucher concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Krainer, Mr Ing. Hofer, Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 892/A by Mr Krainer, Ing. Courts concerning a Federal Act amending the 1992 Price Act and the Price Award Act, a period of until 23. September 2008 Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Kuntzl, Ing. Hofer, the Family Committee for Reporting on the motion 888/A of Deputies Mag. Kuntzl, Ing. Court of Justice relating to the Court of Justice of the European A federal law amending the Family Compensation Act 1967, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl on the Social Rights Amendment Act 2008 a deadline until 23. September 2008 Request by Mr Broukal, Dr. Graf, Dr. Grünewald, the Scientific Committee for Reporting on the application 890/A of Deputies Broukal, Dr. Graf, Dr. Grünewald concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Organisation of Universities and Their Studies (University Law 2002), the Federal Law on the Organisation of Educational Universities and their Studies (Hochschulegesetz 2005) and the Federal Law on the Grant of Study Grants and Other Study Funding Measures (Study Funding Act 1992). September 2008 Request by Mr Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr. Grünewald, to the Scientific Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 891/A(E) by Mrs Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr. Grünewald, on the improvement of the financial resources of universities, a deadline of up to 23. September 2008 Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Lapp, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs for reporting on the Government template 677 of the Supplements to a Federal Act amending the Federal Carriers Act, a period of time until 23. September 2008 Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Kuzdas, ladies and gentlemen, a deadline for reporting to the Transport Committee on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Kukacka, Dr. Stummvoll, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Roads Act 2002 until 23. ==References== I would also like to say that Mrs Magistrate. Lunacek has requested to report to the Justice Committee on motion 5/A of Deputies Mag. Lunacek, colleagues in a federal law amending the General Civil Code, a period of until 23. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. I would also like to say that Members of Parliament are Krainer, Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Courts and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the 1994 VAT Act, a period of until 23. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This debate and the vote on this request for a deadline will take place following the debate that has just been announced. [[19:21:33]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2049	We shall now proceed to a brief debate on the request made by Mrs Mag. Lunacek, the Justice Committee for Reporting on Amendment 5/A by Mr Mag. Lunacek, colleagues in a federal law amending the General Civil Code, a period of until 23. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. Before I give the floor to the applicant, I would like to thank, on behalf of all the political groups in this House, the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate for the preparatory work for this meeting. [[General condolences.]] We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Lunacek. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2102	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! In one of the evening editions of the newspapers that lie on some pults here, there is a photo of Niki Lauda and his former partner Birgit Wetzinger, who have now married. Heading to this effect: ‘Heirate is recommended.’ And: “Niki Lauda does it these days.” – Right that way; he should. There are also other people who marry again and again in Austria. There's someone like Elton John in other countries who married even though he's gay. There are Ellen DeGeneres, who is certainly known to some of you from the TV shows and films that are lesbian and married. In Austria, people would be like a Günter Tolar, an Alfons Haider, or I would be hard on it. Not only hard: We can't get married in our country. We must not enter into a registered partnership either. We are to the people we love, complete strangers before the law. For this reason, although the session takes a long time and everyone wants to go home today, I have tabled the application for marriage for lesbians and gays and also the request for the creation of a civil pact, a ZIP, for lesbians, gays and heterosexuals, who want a more modern legal institution than marriage, as deadline proposals. There are also numerous people in Austria who have lived together for years and decades and who have been able to say everything in their lives – except for the word “yes”. I know a couple, a couple who have lived together for more than 50 years. They have still experienced the times of the total ban when there was a danger that they would come to prison for their sexual love. Fortunately, it's over for a long time. In other parts of the world, this is still so; luckily, no more. Here, we can now live half open to lesbians and gays – at least in cities, partly in some rural areas. There has been a great change in the population over the last ten and fifteen years. Meanwhile, there is a 2004 survey, when the Styrian clubman of the ÖVP, Christopher Drexler, meant that there must be legal equality: Two thirds of the Austrian population find equal rights, registered partnerships for lesbians and gays correct and necessary. In 2004, that was already four years ago. About a year and a half ago, there was a Eurobarometer survey. And you know what came out? – In Austria, even 49 percent of the population are for the opening of marriage for lesbians and gays. And there are certainly many voters of the ÖVP there; probably some of the FPÖ, but I have my doubts, but certainly voters of the ÖVP and perhaps of the BZÖ. There is a resolution from the 2002 European Parliament which states that any form of legal or actual discrimination must be abolished, which still suffers from homosexuals, especially in the area of the right to marriage and child adoption. All EU countries were invited to implement this. Some have done it: Belgium, the Netherlands – and also the very Catholic Spain. I sometimes think – that is addressed to the ÖVP –: Talk to people in Spain! Your party colleagues are probably very opposed by PP, but in Catholic Spain a majority of the population is also for this marriage. There are now marriages for lesbians and gays – and the evening country has not yet fallen, even in Spain, ladies and gentlemen. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which includes for each person the right to respect for private and family life. Ladies and gentlemen, the refusal of marriage for same-sex couples or a registered partnership is a violation of human rights. And maybe to make it a little clearer: It is true that, as I said earlier, there are some of these couples who have lived together for a very long time. What happens if one of the two gets very sick, has to go to the hospital and is on the intensive care station? There is then no right to get information about what is happening to the loved one. There is no right to do so. While it is true in many hospitals that the staff would provide information, lesbians and gays have no legal claim to it, for they are, as I have said before, completely strangers to each other. There are many other areas in which there are great difficulties. Every few weeks someone writes me and says, I fell in love with someone who does not come from the EU or an EEA country. What am I supposed to do? My friend studied here, now he's finishing his studies. We've been living together for two or three years. What are we gonna do? I can only tell these people that there are three ways to do this: either the Austrian goes out or you break this relationship. The variant that they're doing something illegal, I don't suggest, but of course, there's something like that. These people do not have the opportunity to live in Austria; they have constant concerns and problems. Just recently, I had a case like that again. Again: The refusal of the right to private life is illegal to human rights. In the course of the last years before the last election, just two years ago, this was also the topic of the election campaign. The SPÖ promised: Yes to registered Partnership. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer even promised the opening of marriage for lesbians and gays in the scene media. A year ago, after a long perspective group process, the ÖVP proposed adapting the Swiss model. Mr Pröll has led this perspective group, and he has said that it will be implemented. Vice chancellor Molterer has also promised that all of this will be implemented. Do you know what the Swiss model includes? – As well as all rights, except adoption, for lesbians and gays, and they may also enter into their relationship in the funeral room at the Standesamt. That in the direction of ÖVP, which has found, on the stand office, gays and lesbians must not marry; one cannot need that if then perhaps a heterosexual couple comes out of the office and then two women or two men meet them: It's terrible! Would they be afraid and run away? I think for many people in our country, it is now an accepted fact that there are lesbian and gay people, including public, open and visible. However, the rights are still missing, as I mentioned earlier. On the side of this now ending government, there was a proposal by the Minister of Justice, Berger, which contained very little. Nevertheless, there was no agreement on this mini package by the ÖVP, although the ÖVP had already promised – O-Ton Vice-Chancellor Molterer – that everything in the paper of the ÖVP perspective group would be implemented. According to the Swiss model, social and pension insurance law as well as foreign legal opportunities for bi-national couples are also provided. But there was nothing inside at the ÖVP; not even the mini package of Minister Berger could and did not want to accept you. We Greens believe that people have choices that the principle of freedom also applies to love, including those who want to live together. And because we want this for all, not one's own legal institution for lesbians and gays, we have initiated the civil pact, this ZIP, which applies to lesbians, gays and heteros. We reject special rights for people. This must apply, as I said, to all. At the same time, we want to open marriage to lesbians and gays, as Catholic Spain has lived. Before the law, ladies and gentlemen, all people must be treated the same way – no matter what sexual orientation they have. That doesn't take anything away – and it doesn't cost anything. That for those who always make the “argument” one has to pay attention to that budget. Again: If lesbians and gays were to marry if they could enter a ZIP, who would take that away? And to the “argument”, which comes from some, that destroys the heterosexual marriage and family, I can only say: They don't need lesbians and gays to do this; the heterosexuals do it alone in their respective families and couples. They do not need us to do so, and this must not be an argument against the opening of marriage or against the introduction of a ZIP or a civil pact. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you now have the opportunity to agree to these deadlines and finally put an end to a serious human rights violation that is still taking place in our country. Jump over your shadow and say yes to this deadline: both for marriage and for the ZIP! That would be a good step for Austria and its people, for all – for lesbians, gays and heterosexuals.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2229	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Jarolim. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2253	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lunacek, in principle, you can follow your considerations fully, and of course it is so that there must also be a form of life for the same sexes, which is recognised by the state. We have already held this discussion for a long time and have decided to change the law of marriage in a reform debate, so that we want to strengthen the principle of destruction in particular and leave the divorce decision in the background, since it is really not really possible to establish a debt in the resolution of a long-term community. This is unworthy, and this often leads to the last quest of respect for each other in disputes and then even the children remain on the track in this dispute situation. We will therefore reform the law of marriage. Mrs. Justice Minister Berger has also presented a very wide-ranging draft on the subject of registered partnership, a draft which is actually ready to decide, but which was ultimately put into a rather unworthy discussion, namely to prevent this form of confession to each other before the office. However, we believe from SPÖ that in a new legislative period the reason will prevail and that this form, which has already been structured in all the details, can actually be implemented. We are therefore not going to join this request which has now been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2290	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2311	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear viewers at the gallery! The BZÖ's position in this short debate on the Green request is quite clear. The BZÖ does not make its contribution to the Austrians dependent on the sexual orientation of the citizens in Austria. We are stunned and clear against discrimination against homosexuals in the legal area, we underline this, but for us this is not a requirement to pre-regulate that if someone is a homosexual, for example, a marriage or a registration must enter into a previous form. One has nothing to do with the other. That means to clarify this again: We are in favour of abolishing discrimination in this area in the area of rent law or inheritance law. Okay, that's one. On the other hand, however, we say: Marriage is a high asset that is to be protected for mother and father – and a child needs mother and father – and in this case... – Yes, mother and father, husband and wife. [[Calls to the Greens.]] It is clear to us that we will not agree to a pre-equivalent registration or marriage for homosexuals. And what surprises us a lot is that you're the one On the part of the Greens, there is no time at all to discuss what form we could take to support families in Austria so that there will be more children in Austria in the future. This is something we should discuss. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And to the address of the Greens: What about the abolition of the amount of payment in connection with the provision of child benefit, what about, for example, an Austrian baby's allowance? – In Carinthia we have introduced this: Funding for the first child 800 €, for the second child 900 € and for the third child 1 000 €. This is an incentive for young families to take this first step. Further: For mothers who decide to care for children at home, as it is their main occupation, the current allowance is to be extended to include mothers. These are things that would promote family start-up and make that achievable – up to a hundred percent deductibility of child care costs. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are measures that we have always called for, but which always hit deaf ears with you. But that should be implemented. There is time to invest to discuss the stone clearly, but then to act once – and not to discuss constantly whether someone should go to an office or to a notary. Nobody's interested in that. It is important to remove discrimination in certain legal areas. And: As this formal act looks, that really doesn't interest anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2383	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Lunacek, the Justice Committee for Reporting on Amendment 5/A by Mr Mag. Lunacek, colleagues in a federal law amending the General Civil Code, a period of until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 19:38:57short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2417	We shall now proceed to the brief debate on the request made by Mr Krainer, Mr Ing. Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 893/A by Mr Krainer, Mr Ing. Courts and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the 1994 VAT Act, a period of until 23. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker speaking on has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2465	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal has already been discussed relatively widely. This is about halving VAT, the VAT on food. There are a number of very good reasons to do that, and there are some arguments that are put forward to say why one should not do that. The first is: Every economic professor, like Dr. Van der Bellen, will have said more often in his lectures that indirect taxes, mass taxes, such as VAT, are regressive. This means that persons with a small income from such taxes are relatively more taxed than persons with a large income. That is why I do not fully understand the criticism that it is said that it would not be fittingly safe to reduce it. For if a tax is regressive, that is, small incomes are more taxed than large incomes, and it is reduced, then there must be a progressive effect of this tax reduction. This means that the reduction works so much that it relieves relatively small incomes more than large incomes, and that is in principle also a criterion for social justice. [[Abg. Big truck: This is a cheese, Mr. Krainer, a cheese crane!]] That is at least what I have always heard from economists like Dr. Van der Bellen up to this discussion and heard about the question of indirect taxes. That's also what I've got from the Greens' financial spokesman, Mag. Rossmann, had read and belonged to indirect taxes before this debate. In so far as I believe, we can definitely cut off the fact that, of course, a reduction in the turnover tax has a progressive effect, i.e. a social justice. The question is: Does it also relieve those who are affected by the cost? And here is the answer, I think, for all parties of course clear: Of course, because affected by the price of food are those who go shopping in the supermarket. Benefit from a reduction do those who go shopping in the supermarket, so exactly those who are also affected by the price. And that there is also social justice here, which is clearly established and also adequately secured. There are a number of experts from the Economic Research Institute and the like, who clearly say that this is in the right direction and, of course, it is a positive social distribution. The question is: When does that help? I believe that it is essential that people are affected by the inflation today and not in one-and-a-half years, two or five years, but today. In other words, if we want politicians to put an effective measure against inflation, we have to put in place a measure that works today and not in two years or in five years. Of course, medium and long-term measures are also useful and important, but also those that act immediately. And there is no measure that can set the policy that acts as quickly, effectively as the reduction of the VAT on food, the halvation of 10 to 5 percent, because it affects from one day to the other, from the day on which the reduction comes into effect by 5 percent. [[Abg. Olympians: That's a fool! There's plenty of others there!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: When will this day be? 2010?]] A third point of criticism, which is always presented, is the question: Will this be passed on to trade? Now it is true that one can also reject and say that they are legally obliged to do so, not only since today, but also in the past. [[Abg. Hornek: Promise – broken! Here you are an expert, Mr. Colleague.]] In other words, every dealer is obliged to pass on tax advantages which he receives through legal changes one to one immediately; this has already been regulated in the Price Act. But yes, there are examples in the past where this has not necessarily happened one too one. For example, the abolition of the excise duty on beverages, which has certainly not taken one at a price at all innkeepers, has found its way into pricing. [[Abg. Oils: This is something impoverishing!]] But there is already a small difference in whether in Austria you need to control tens of thousands of gastronomy companies or three chains to control 80 percent of the market. It is already, I say, only a little easier to control three chains from the entire logistics behind it than tens of thousands of businesses. We probably agree that this is a little easier. So I even trust a competition authority under Bartenstein to do that. [[Abg. Ollinger: I don't trust him!]] What we have to say now is that we come to the question of Bartenstein extra. The fact that the gas stations are changed five times on the day of the price seems to have been found by Minister Bartenstein from the newspaper, as he himself said. The mineral oil companies simply profit from the fact that they can change prices at any time via an electronic display, and do so: In the morning business, if people want to drink under time pressure before work, the prices are high, in the morning there is a reduction of prices, because people are not under pressure, but have time to watch, so it is a little cheaper. At noon, the price goes up again, down again in the afternoon, and then after closing the office, it goes up again. Similarly, there are similar curves in the course of the week, where prices, still overcut by weekly and daily business, are constantly changed. Mr Bartenstein also criticised this when he learned it from the paper, but he immediately said to control whether they do it or not, we do not. And that's a little bit! If one wants to do something seriously about such practices, one must also be prepared to force controls, especially as the responsible minister of the economy, and that is something that Mr Bartenstein has so far clearly failed to take any initiative in order to take real action here and to carry out proper price controls. Federal Minister Bartenstein already has the legal possibility to set official prices and to initiate such or even price examination procedures. So in principle he has some levers and buttons here. In the event that there is too little competition, there are a number of levers and buttons; this has been decided by the House so that a minister can operate them if necessary. [[Abg. Großruck: Such a boredom!]] What's the Minister doing? – He says it’s right, there are these levers and buttons, but to press them, that’s a policy – how did he say? – the fifties and 60s, so I don't do it. In fact, this is an ignorance to the House, because the House does not adopt laws here, and does not give the Minister levers and buttons to the hand so that he says I do not push them, but that he does so at the moment when it is necessary. Even here Bartenstein has proved that he really does not want to, and that is also one of the reasons why the criticism of whether this is going to pass on to trade is partly understandable, because if one has a minister who does not care about it, but who is responsible for it, then of course it is unclear to what extent this is passed on. For this very reason, we have added new buttons and new levers. And it could also be what I very much hope that after the election someone else will sit in his place, because Minister Bartenstein has already announced that he will no longer be a member of the new government if the SPÖ becomes the strongest party. So please, those who believe we want to have an economic minister who also uses the buttons and levers, only need to select SPÖ – then the Bartenstein is gone. [[Abg. Hornek: Then the economy is gone!]] There are probably also people in the ÖVP who are able to press buttons and levers when it comes to the fight at high prices. Bartenstein proved he can't. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we open another possibility with the Price Act. We provide for the obligation that the chains be self-contained by 30. We have to report their prices to the Minister on November, and we are giving the Minister the opportunity to retrieve the current price situation in each business at any time, with the small business of course excluded from it. [[Abg. Wheeler: Planwirtschaft! Five-year plan!]] - No, that's not a five-year plan! Please, colleague, you're in the wrong movie. I don't know where you're from, but if you listen, it's about something else here, about the question of reducing the turnover tax. We also leave the ÖVP's watchman and caviar discussion to the ÖVP and simply arrange it so, the Minister of Finance, who is constantly only talking about caviar and humour purchases, who is also Finance Minister, should also draw up this list, which he does not think is part of it here. Finally, I should like to point out that, in our opinion, this regulation is also EU-compliant. The concerns raised by the ÖVP here at the wine growers are unfounded. The 12 % rate for wine growers is legally guaranteed by the Accession Treaty and not by the VAT Directive. These 12 percent are not a reduced rate within the meaning of the VAT Directive, but within the meaning of the Accession Treaty. In this respect, these fears are little justified. In conclusion, I can only call on everyone to agree to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2619	I say for the time being that the Croquis is under pressure in preparation, and as soon as it is available to the clubs, I have to interrupt for a quarter of an hour so that the clubs can clarify their voting behaviour with regard to the more than 50 requests for deadlines. Is that in agreement? If anyone wants more time, I would ask you to inform the Bureau. I now draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. The next speaker was Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2646	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The halving of VAT on food and medicine is also an old requirement of the BZÖ, based on the fact that prices have gone up massively over the last one and a half years. We have made every effort to point out to this Federal Government that it is essential to make tax reliefs In order to ensure that those in our society who suffer the most from price increases experience a corresponding relief. In the light of the whole development, of course, there is now a whole range of proposals, and I believe that the most efficient measure we have put in Carinthia, namely the cost-effective balance. In Carinthia we have already made a price compensation of 200 €, which immediately works, which is uncomplicated, is administrative-friendly. Therefore, we would also prefer that variant of halving the tax. I am of course interested in what tax measures we will take in the food sector, because that will not be so easy. There's the 6th. VAT Directive, which must be taken into account, there are EU directives that will be observed. With regard to the halving of VAT on medicines, there have already been discussions between the Minister of Finance and the Chamber of Pharmacovigilance, which have now agreed on two possible variants, either the halving of VAT or a levying by other means. We can imagine all the variants and are eager to see what the Committee's discussions will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2686	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Krainer, Mr G. Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 893/A by Mr Krainer, Mr Ing. Courts and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the 1994 VAT Act, a period of until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Can you let me tell you this, Madam President?]] - Yeah, we're counting anyway. [[During the part-session, a number of representatives of the ÖVP entered the room, leading to calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ representatives on the one hand and the ÖVP on the other, including Abg. Krainer:Two have come in during the voting process]] Please calm down! – Ladies and gentlemen, it is not permitted to come into the hall during the vote, during the narration! [[Another member of the ÖVP enters the hall, which leads to further violent misconceptions at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Even the third party!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The request was accepted with 83 pro and 80 double votes. [[Lively applause and bravado at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I'm asking for peace! We expect the Croquis to arrive in 10 minutes. Please plan 15 minutes for the review of the deadline applications. That means we can continue by 8:25 p.m. I am now interrupting the sitting. [[19:57:30]] [[The sitting was suspended at 7.57 p.m. and resumed at 20.33 p.m.]] [[20:33:01]] Resumption of the session
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e2787	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the interrupted session again, and I can ask you to go to your places. We shall come to the vote on the remaining deadline proposals, in the order in which they are published. Let me begin by saying that I would like to ask the two authors, Mr Auer and Mrs Binder-Maier, to support me in the voting process in any case. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to this, as we have many proposals to put to the vote. First of all, we are voting on Mrs Moser's request to report to the Transport Committee on Amendment 899/A(E) by Mr Van der Bellen and others on the 'Free Opening for Young and Public Development'. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request for a deadline an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Steibl: They're just coming in!]] [[Abg. Gahr: And what about the two delegates now?]] [[Further call at the ÖVP: There were three!]] - That's the majority. It's accepted. For clarification only: Of course, in the current vote, no Members and no Members should be prevented from taking part in the voting process. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – honourable Member, the incoming Members were also included in the previous case. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] - Of course it was. [[Further no-run at the ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Member. Rossmann, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 898/A(E) by Dr Van der Bellen, colleagues on Capital Gains Tax, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for deadlines to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, the Family Committee for Reporting on Amendment 894/A(E) by Mr Van der Bellen, colleagues on ‘income dependent child care allowance’, until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. This request was accepted by a majority vote. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Pirklhuber, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, reporting on Amendment 872/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, concerning ‘Moratorium for agrofuels’, a period of until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this request to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Pilz, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on Mrs. Dr. Pilz's motion for a resolution (897/A(E)) concerning the Committee on Inquiry as a Minority Law. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. [[Congratulation with SPÖ, Greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. That's where democracy lives!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Brosz, the Committee on Education to report on Mr Van der Bellen's motion for a resolution (896/A(E)) by Mr Van der Bellen, colleagues in the field of Free Kindergarten from the first year of life on. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mrs Lichtenecker, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to report on Mrs. Dr. Van der Bellen's motion for a resolution (895/A(E)) on ‘Rouss from expensive oil and gas – conversion aid for liquefied, clean energy’. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – I am looking for the two writers to help me with the counting of votes. [[The two writers count the voices.]] This request was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Member. Rossmann, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Parliament's motion for a resolution 842/A. Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to increasing the tax rate on the foundation, a period of up to 23 years. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by the honourable Members. Lunacek, the Justice Committee for Reporting on Amendment 3/A by Member Mag. Lunacek, colleagues on civil pacts until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, the Equal Treatment Committee for Reporting on Amendment 566/A(E) by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the introduction of a legally binding proportion of women on the Board of Governments and on supervisory councils of listed companies. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – I ask again for help in counting the voice of the writing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How can this be a majority?]] – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Oellinger, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 846/A by Mr Oellinger, colleagues on the health insurance scheme for health insurance. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Mandak, the Family Committee for Reporting on Mr Mandak's motion for a resolution (357/A), and on Mr Mandak's request for a "father's month" until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Pilz, the Committee on Internal Affairs, to report on Mr Pilz's motion for a resolution (Doc. 844/A) on a federal law amending the 1991 Security Police Act. ==References== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Steibl, the Family Committee for Reporting on the motion 900/A by Mr Steibl, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the Family Compensation Act 1967, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Steibl, the Family Committee for Reporting on Amendment 904/A(E) by Mr Steibl, colleagues, on the further development of child care allowance – the offer of an income-dependent variant in the interests of families, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall also vote on the request of Mr Morak, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs to report on Mr Morak's motion for a resolution (902/A) and Mr Morak, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code, until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Member. Kukacka, Transport Committee for Reporting on Amendment 903/A(E) by Mr Mag. Kukacka, colleagues with regard to the introduction of an Austrian ticket until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. The request was adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the request of Mr Amon, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 901/A by Mr Amon, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the ASVG, the Commercial Social Security Act and other laws. ==References== If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Mr Amon, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 905/A by Mrs Amon, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the War Victim Care Act, the Victim Care Act and other laws. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the request of Mr Amon, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Mr Amon's motion for a resolution (906/A) for a Federal Act amending the ASVG and the Civilian Health and Accidental Insurance Act. ==References== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on amendment 916/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the ASVG, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act to introduce a pension adjustment as early as the first year after retirement, a period of up to 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. Finally, we shall come to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Westenthaler, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on amendment 917/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Workers' Chamber Act 1992 on the relief of low-income persons, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Please count!]] [[Further calls.]] – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on amendment 918/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, on a federal law establishing a heating compensation fund, a period of until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on amendment 919/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the ASVG and other laws, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Where was Amon...?]] – Mr Jarolim, I too may ask you to pay attention. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Lentic.]] We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 920/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the 2008 financial compensation law to limit local charges, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, agreeing to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on amendment 921/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Family Compensation Act 1967 to reintroduce a birth grant, a period of until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Westenthaler, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 922/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the 1995 Mineral Oil Tax Act, a period of until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Westenthaler, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 923/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law granting a tax bonus for 2008 to pay and income taxpayers, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Westenthaler, the financial committee for reporting on the application 924/A of the orderly Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the 1994 VAT Act on the reduction of the turnover tax on medicines, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this deadline request for a positive sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 925/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1998 on the tax exemption of overtime supplements, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Strache, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 907/A) by Mr Strache, fellow Members, concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the B-VG, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Strache, the Committee on Internal Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 908/A) by Mrs Strache, colleagues on the establishment and residence law - NAG a deadline until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Strache, the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on the motion for a resolution (909/A) by Mr Strache, fellow Members on the 2005 asylum law. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 910/A by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, Members of the Federal Law amending the 1995 Mineral Oil Tax Act, until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Kickl, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs for reporting on Amendment 911/A(E) by Mr Kickl, colleagues on the adjustment of pensions in accordance with the price index for pensioners' households without a waiting period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 912/A(E) by Mr Strache, fellow Members with regard to the discharge of citizens, until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Kickl, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs for reporting on Amendment 913/A(E) by Mr Kickl, colleagues on the anchoring of the long-term insurance scheme in the permanent right to a period of up to 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Themessl, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 914/A(E) by Mr Themessl, colleagues on discharge of economic operators, until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request of Mr Strache, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs to report on Mr Fichtenbauer's motion for a resolution (529/A) by Dr Fichtenbauer, colleagues on the criminal code. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The next item is the vote on the request from Mr Strache, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs to report on Mr Fichtenbauer's motion for a resolution (757/A) by Dr Fichtenbauer, colleagues on the criminal code. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Mr Strache, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs to report on Mr Fichtenbauer's motion for a resolution (759/A) by Dr Fichtenbauer, colleagues on the criminal code. ==References== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Fichtenbauer, the Committee of Inquiry on the cover-up of police officers and the abuse of political power, in particular in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, but also in the Federal Ministries for Justice, Finance and the Federal Minisium for European and International Affairs, for the submission of a written committee report until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the request made by Members Haberzettl, Bucher, colleagues, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 915/A by Mr Haberzettl, Mr Bucher, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Krainer, Mr Ing. Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 892/A by Mr Krainer, Mr Ing. Courts and colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the 1992 Price Act and the Price Award Act, a period of until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Kuntzl, Ing. Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, the Family Committee on Reporting on the motion for a resolution 888/A by Mr Mag. Kuntzl, Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Family Compensation Act 1967, a period of time until 23. ==References== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Members Csörgits, Kickl, colleagues, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 889/A) by Mr Csörgits, Mr Kickl, colleagues on the Law on Social Rights 2008 ==References== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues, to the Scientific Committee for Reporting on amendment 890/A by Mr Broukal, Dr. Graf, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues on University Law 2002, University Law 2005 and Studienförderungsgesetz 1992 a deadline until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We shall also vote on the request by Mr Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues, to the Scientific Committee for Reporting on amendment 891/A(E) by Mr Broukal, Dr Graf, Dr. Green Forest, ladies and gentlemen with regard to better financial facilities for universities, a period of up to 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall also vote on the request of Mr Lapp, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the Government template 677 of the Supplements, a period of time of up to 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Kuzdas, Transport Committee for Reporting on Mr Fleckl's motion for a resolution (Doc. Kukacka, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Roads Act 2002, a period of time until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. We have thus reached the end of the votes. [[21:02:05]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-09-12-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3747	I am still announcing that Questions 4977/J to 4979/J were received at this meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 24. September 2008, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
