ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12055	Good day, ladies and gentlemen! I may ask you all to take your seats. I'll open the 44. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of the 41. Meeting of 5 and 6. ==References====External links== Meeting of 6. In December 2007, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Fleckl, Muchitsch, Wimmer, Ing. Kapeller, Praßl, Mag. Lunacek and Mayerhofer. [[11:01:11]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12092	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Kurt Eder has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Ms Angela Lueger instead. Since the election permit is already in place and the said person is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now asking Mrs Hagenhofer, the writer, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12128	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12149	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[11:02:30]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12177	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[11:02:42]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12379	The BZÖ Parliamentary Club has, according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 3264/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on “Duration dispute and record loads – Gusenbauer’s Government of the Social Cold” to be dealt with urgently. The urgent question will be carried out at 2 p.m. I also announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF during the period from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. I'll interrupt the meeting by 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12420	I'll start the interrupted session again. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to take your seats again. [[14:00:59]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues at the Federal Chancellor on permanent dispute and record charges – Gusenbauer's Government of the Social Cold (3264/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12462	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 3264/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, their reading by the writer is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12714	I announce that the following Rules of Procedure were adopted in the circular route between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m.: The questioner for the reasons of the urgent question 20 minutes, the competent member of the government also 20 minutes, then one word for each group with 10 minutes, then another member of the government with 10 minutes, one word per group each with 5 minutes, another one with 8 minutes, and one word per group with 4 minutes, and one word per group with 4 minutes. Before the end of the final round, after consultation with the club presidents, the President-in-Office shall distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way as to ensure that all political groups remain in the overall speaking time of the clubs in accordance with § 93 para. 5 GOG to speak evenly. Any actual corrections will only be called after 5 p.m. I now give Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler as the first questioner to justify the urgent question. 20 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12758	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – I am pleased to have your presence at this special meeting, which the BZÖ has convened for today. That's good, so listen. They all share what we have to say and do not have to communicate to each other. Mr. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, I hope you celebrated well yesterday in Hofburg: a year of fulfillment of your sandbox dream, one year – from your point of view – the great Me as Chancellor, but I am telling you right now: The Austrians are not meant to celebrate. These are disappointed by your broken election promises, they are outraged, really outraged by the fight in this great coalition, and they are also opposed because of the wave of stress and the social cold that, after a year of Cabinet Gusenbauer, move through this country and burden them and have them in the grip. – This is actually what we really want to discuss today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is only disputed, over everything is disputed. Finally, Klubobmann Cap even gave a press conference to argue about who is fighting and who is guilty of the dispute. After a year you finally agree on something, and a day later you will be fighting again: Did you even agree? Who agreed on what? - There's a fight again, and that's strange. The only thing, Dr. Gusenbauer, that you can't and can never dispute is that you have failed with your government already now, one year after you take office! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I allow myself at this point to send you a gift for this one year, namely a book – it is actually a children's book, but still quite appropriate for the government – with the title: ‘The small discord or how to avoid dispute’; Similarities with existing persons are merely by chance, Dr. Gusenbauer. “The little discord...” – on the one hand the SPÖ, on the other hand the ÖVP – I may present this book to you, Dr. Gusenbauer, because you need it. [[The speaker presented the book to Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] What can be heard from you right now is just persisting. You last said at your anniversary press conference that the government's reputation is worse than what it represents. Do you know when I've heard this for the last time? When I was in the football league. At that time, the coach of the descending club, who had already gone far away, said before the match in the cabin: Dear children, players, you are actually much better than your reputation! – The club has nevertheless gone down. – We do not want Austria to continue to climb to the top with you, falling into the second class, but Austria must remain at the forefront. But through you we do not see that guaranteed, Dr. Gusenbauer. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second point – and that’s absolutely legendary – is the next variant of Gusenbauer’s policy. After the broken election promises and the endurance paroles comes now: “Friends, sponge over it!” [[The speaker holds up a note on which these words can be read.]] The new policy of Dr. Gusenbauer is: “Friends, sponges over it!” I understand, Dr. Gusenbauer, that over this one year of disaster you prefer to put a sponge over it, but the Austrians certainly do not want it, because political responsibility does not mean “swimm over it!”, Dr. Gusenbauer, but political responsibility means: Work instead of disputes, but not loads, to take people's concerns seriously, instead of burdening them and leading them behind the light. – This is a decent policy that you do not do! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'll tell you the following: If you don't want to be with each other and can't be with each other, just leave it! Get out of here! Go with God, but go and free the way so that people in this land can re-elect and communicate to this government what they want, namely: send you into the wilderness! This is the wish of the Austrian population; each third party already wants to have new elections. – Understandably after this year of disaster. The only thing that keeps this government together is the post chess, the red and black packing and the proportion on the one hand, as well as the red and black load policy on the other. The short formula of this government after a year is: Instead of being properly governed, mercilessly amassed, instead of diligent hacking is unpaved. This is the guiding principle of this government, the guiding principle of this great coalition. This great coalition is not able to present patent recipes in order to finally bring about solutions. It has always been said that the great coalition solves the big problems. - No, she's the big problem herself! A social cold wave is unusual – under a social democratic leadership! – overruns Austria. Poverty increases and increases. There are now half a million people living in permanent poverty. By the way, Mr Bundeskanzler, do you know where percentages of them live? In the city of Graz. 33,000 people live... – Social democracy laughs at people! 33 000 Grazers live in permanent poverty. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is a shame for your government, a disgrace for social democracy, which repeatedly writes “social warmth” on the table. The opposite is the case! People live in poverty, and that's the point! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Gusenbauer makes Austria a social deep-frozen rest – and what does he say about it? Swamm over it! He doesn't want to talk about it anymore. – A hint at this point, Dr. Gusenbauer: The sponge is a very bad example as a new coat of arms, the You've chosen it now. The sponge is, in fact, the type of tissueless from the biological point of view. It comes from the species “without backbone. ” That's what you should write behind your ears: A sponge has no backbone. A bit significant is also the action of the government on this issue. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another thing: The sponge is the new symbol of this great coalition. He sucks on the pockets of the people, sucks everything out, and gives nothing more. In this way, the sponge is in turn quite well chosen. A wave of stress, a wave of stress is passing over the people in this country. It is not true that everything is getting a little more expensive, but now people are often already at risk of existence. It's not about the price of champagne, red wine, salmon and caviar, which you're so happy to eat, Dr. Gusenbauer, but it's about the price of bread, milk, butter and vegetables. It's about the substance. People in this country can no longer even afford basic food. In addition, the increases in rents and energy costs, Dr. Gusenbauer. From November of the previous year alone, heating costs will rise by an average of €500 per household from November to March of this year. We live in a country - and you can't deny that, Dr. Gusenbauer - where 250 000 households can no longer afford heating. There are people sitting at home for Christmas in the coat, with gloves and blankets – and in the middle of Austria, in a highly industrialized country under the leadership of a social democratic government! That's for generating, that's heartbreaking, that's social cold. That is why we are committed to a heating aid: so that people can at least afford a little heat, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is a shame that there is no such grant. The political air conditioning in the Federal Chancellor's Office must not be so cold that in the Austrians' homes the ice cones grow in the truest sense of the word. But that's your policy! – What does the Federal Chancellor say about this? Swamm over it! He doesn't want to discuss it anymore. Swamm over, we're starting again, we're not talking about the abuses! Today, you have even submitted a “swimm over!” application. This is something completely new in Parliament’s terminology, a “fine over it!” proposal. On the topic of “care” social democracy ended up with a capital belly spot. What have you been fighting for for weeks when you are already kneeling before the ÖVP? The care amnesty – and nothing else is this request – at the constitutional level, to extend until the summer and beyond, and to work out no solution around the nursing dress – is no longer responsible for the fact that caring people and caring people are simply abandoned by you. Once it is legally, once illegally, once punished, do not even punish. It has required this special meeting of the BZÖ, we have set up the initiative that you can make your request at all. – This is a declaration of bankruptcy by a government, but not a proper government policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They cut the care allowance. You have not adjusted the amount of the care allowance for this year, and due to the rate of price and the increases, you can also reduce the care money in real terms. People will have less. In addition, your non-social asset limit of €7 000, Mr. Sozialminister Buchinger. If an elderly person, who has worked hard for years and has spent a little bit of money, has perhaps saved €7 000, must first sell his hard savings before he even gets into the enjoyment of a 24-hour care, then Communism is, but no social care and no solution as we see it, Minister of Social Affairs! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: the health system so that it does not get forgotten. - With 1. January 2008 has happened in the health system: The prescription fees have been increased, the cost of medical care and orthopaedic shoe deposits have increased, the self retention for spa stays have been increased and the health insurance contributions are increasing for all. This is the true social disaster in health policy. It's heartless, it's cold, it's removed. – What does the Federal Chancellor say about this? Swamm over it! We say no, not sponges about it! If the health insurance companies are in favour if people can no longer afford the health system, the disease, then this is a social bankruptcy declaration to be held responsible for casting farmers and their ministers, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: the pensions. – A report on the APA has just been made stating that the inflation rate for 2007 is 2.2 percent. – What did you promise the pensioner, Dr. Gusenbauer? That you paid them at least the inflation rate. What happened? The average pension increase is 2%. So we already have it black on white that you really cut the pensions, that you take away money from the pensioner. Next year, we will have an even higher rate of inflation, which alone was 3.6 percent in December. So you're taking away money from the pensioner. This is red and black pension robbery, which has also been made hard since today. That's not a pension increase you've made. It's been shameless how you sold people this as something good. In reality, it was a reduction in pensions, and we don't want to. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will also take action against the pension coup you are planning now by introducing an automatic one. Whenever life expectancy increases, you want to increase the retirement age and thus avoid Parliament; so far it has been. We're going to fight against it massively. – They just say: Swamm over it! You don't care. Or: Scrapping the drivers. – Today it has been announced that Austria is second in terms of price increases for drivers – measured across Europe. According to Poland, Austria has the second highest increases. 23 percent for diesel, 20 percent for super gasoline, and you also increase the mineral oil tax. So they make it impossible for every donor to drive the car into work every day. Caring has now become luxury because you burden the drivers with a fee. – We see ourselves as representatives of the drivers, and we will fight for every one of the 1.1 million counterparts in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! Not: “Swimm over!” as you want! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another example: The new year starts, the people... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] That's unpleasant for you, isn't it? Mr Parnigoni said: Mr Westenthaler, you've been talking for too long! – You can’t hear it! You can't hear what you've done last year because you're cutting people out because you don't think about people, because you don't think that there are people in this country who freeze; not even you think about it. [[OBJECTIVES]] Many savers are now visiting their banks to see how high the interest rates for their small savings are, perhaps to save the daughter something for the granddaughter. What's going on? The Minister of Finance takes the savers over the capital income tax just one quarter away, namely 25 percent. – That too is unsocial. That is why we say: Get away with the capital income tax for the little savers! These are to get their interest rates to 100 percent, because their money is hard enough to save. They have the right to receive their interest to the full. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dr. Gusenbauer! We want a discharge now and now! We want a pact for a social Austria, and that is why we are making a ten-point request today – a pact for a social Austria that you have had for over a year now. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Seven unhappy years have ruled others, Mr. Westenthaler!]] What do we want to achieve for the Austrians? In essence, a tax reduction so that the medium-sized person is finally relieved. Mr Dr. Cast builder, down with the wage and income tax, which is too high, which has already been criticized and which is most strained on people! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Dr. Gusenbauer, you said two days ago in a radio interview that the release of small and medium-sized income was a command of the hour. – Mr Dr. Gusenbauer, how long will one hour take for you if you first say that the tax reform will only come in 2010, but then say that it is a command of the hour? Is there an hour for you for two years? That can't be the case. We need the discharge now! We now have to give back to people the money that the Minister of Finance has received about additional income on taxes, and not only on the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day in 2010! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We clearly say: We want more net of gross! People have achieved this, they have a right to more net gross. That is why we have introduced a model to raise the tax limits so that the cold progression – you know what that is – that is already eating up wage increases, is paid off and people pay by an average of €700 less on taxes. With this demand we are still a little higher than Dr. Gusenbauer, who promised to discharge 500 € before the election. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. Or: What about a price compensation, Dr. Gusenbauer? People are paying more and more, as I said at the beginning of my remarks. You need to get more and more caught up and have less and less money in the cash register. It would therefore be useful to draw up the net contributions that we are paying to the European Union, which is currently in crisis, and thus to enable the people in our country to be compensated for. 200 € for each household with less than 3 000 € income. – Do you know where that already exists? In Carinthia. In Carinthia, a BZÖ head of state governs, and he already pays this price compensation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Take an example at Kärntner Landeshuptmann, Dr. Gusenbauer! You write on your flags, the government writes on their flags: We are Europe. – Do you know the truth? We pay Europe. The Austrians pay this fiasco at European Union level. Therefore: If you freeze the contributions, we will not pay anything more there, but with this money we will provide relief for the people in our country! We want Austria to become a stronger, improved family country. – Mrs Health Minister, it is now 2,000 families that you take away the child's allowance. Finally stop this robbery through the pockets of the families! Make sure you get rid of the limit of trust and thus allow for a proper family policy in this country! Or: [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Sickness. – Sickness must be manageable, Dr. Gusenbauer. Let's finally put the social security institutions together! Who needs to know about social security institutions, all the officials, service cars, offices that cause only high expenditure? Let's make an administrative reform! Or: You could end an injustice by finally reducing the too high VAT on drugs. 20 percent VAT, this is the highest rate in Europe at all. If you go to one of your luxury hewers, Dr. Gusenbauer, then you pay only 10 percent tax for the food if a poor pensioner has to buy drugs, he pays 20 percent VAT. - That's unfair! Let us look at the people who need drugs, but the tax, so that the drugs can be cheaper; also in European comparison, Dr. Gusenbauer! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let's create a real minimum wage! In the meantime, the minimum wage of 1 000 € is You always prize, only worth more than €818 net, but the minimum security you have raised. The difference between minimum security for all, i.e. those who do not work, and the minimum wage is 71 €. Full-time work, Dr. Gusenbauer is only worth more than €71. That's unfair! People who work are supposed to get more money for it than those who are “feel out” about the min-de-security something, I say very clearly here. We want a real minimum wage of 1 300 € and not just one of 818 €. Dr. Gusenbauer, you said: Performance must be rewarded again! – Thank God You'll be after a year. What to do You for that? Our proposal is quite clear: Let's give a signal that performance is worth it, that is, away with overtime taxation! Whoever does more overtime is punished today by the overtime taxation, so leave it! Let's give a signal for more performance and tell people who want to work more that they have to pay less taxes for it! That's all right! This is a good solution, which we could actually decide on as soon as possible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: employee participation. – Let us make tax reliefs in this regard! Mr. Finanzminister, you have taken this from us so beautifully and you are going through the area like a hiking preacher: Employees' participation, more people are supposed to earn something in the companies and share in their success! – Then have to But they also make this tax attractive, so that people get more money. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have put a wealth of ideas on your table in a short time. Let's talk about it well and seriously! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – It’s good ideas, it’s ideas with a social dimension for a social policy that we want to live, because we don’t want to let people down from the BZÖ. We are the social power of the homeland, and this has been shown here today from the speaker's desk, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Finance Minister, take the 3,5 billion € that you will anyway take in more and that will be even more next year – up to 11, 12 billion € are forecast – and give them back to the people who really need it! I'll ask you to find out: Show your social heart! Give back to those in this country the money that really needs it, because that would actually be that policy with heart that we also want to represent. Dr. Gusenbauer, only when you have returned the money you have collected to the people, only if You have relieved people if you have lowered taxes if no one has to freeze in this country, if people in that country can also afford basic food again, and if poverty – including Graz – has fallen, then do you know what you can say, Dr. Gusenbauer? - Then you can say: Swamm over it! Then we are with you too, because then people are relieved. Then you also have the right to make such a statement. Discuss these ideas with us! For a year the tank and the fight, for a year the tank and the haders are enough. Stop it! Get out of the government and make new elections, or finally implement our social dimension of politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12995	To answer the urgent question, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer spoke. As mentioned above, the speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13016	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I know why Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler gave me a children's book at the beginning of his remarkable lecture: After a brief reading of this book, I have to say that it is much better than the speech that Mr Westenthal has given here in the House. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Superiority! Proud...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] In fact, the question arises as to which country Mr Westenthaler referred here in the House today. We need to be aware of the realities of the year 2007: Austria has had an exceptionally high economic growth of 3.4 percent last year – fortunately, we have a functioning economy. This has led to 60 000 additional jobs being created in the last year alone. And that wasn't any jobs, Mr. Westenthaler. 50 000 of these new jobs are full-time jobs with a good income. That is, the social situation of many Austrians has improved by the fact that there was more growth and more work in 2007. This is primarily the merit of the Austrian economy, but the Federal Government has actively contributed to this by greatly strengthening investment in infrastructure and increasing resources for active labour market policies, because we believe that, above all, economic good times should be used not only to increase employment, but also to re-establish many people who were unemployed before. This, too, has been successful with more than 16,000 people last year, and that is what we call politics with social manuscript, which causes more people to have jobs in our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Westenthaler, you have devoted yourself to the situation of pensioners. . I think it is remarkable that today, in many European countries, pension reductions are being discussed, that in many countries pension increases were very minimal and far below inflation rates. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You'll cut them too! Well, you too!]] In Austria, there is a clear legal basis which requires that the price index of pensions be increased every year. The Austrian Federal Government has decided to estimate an increase in pensions beyond the legal level, because we have seen that the rate of inflation in 2007 has just developed more than it could have been assumed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But it is below the rate of inflation!]] In addition to the legal requirement, the Austrian Federal Government has given a clear sign that it is concerned with pensioners and their incomes, and therefore there has been a higher pension increase in 2007 than it provides for the law. – This too is politics with social manuscript, Mr. Westenthaler, which makes this new Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's just not true!]] Furthermore, we have already extended the long-term insurance scheme, the so-called Hackler Regulation, to 2010 and last week the government decided to extend it further by 2013 – but with a significant difference to the past: Illness periods are also included. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – This means that for the first time not only people who are mostly employees and have a continuous insurance relationship will benefit from this scheme, but above all many workers, whose working biographies are often interrupted by illness. It is an act of social justice that we implement this modification of the pension system, and, Mr Westenthaler, another example of a policy with social manuscript made by this new Federal Government in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with pensions, child rearing times are upgraded – an important women's policy measure – and we have increased the so-called minimum pension, namely the compensation allowance rate, disproportionately in the past year and this year, so that it is € 747 in the meantime for single person. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] This is even an increase of 57 € per month compared to the autumn of 2006 – the two increases combined. This means that, for people in this age group and in this social situation, I think, a substantial improvement in their situation, and they will not find any other country in Europe where there has been such an increase in the so-called minimum pension, as was the case in Austria in the last two years. – I also think this is a good policy, because economically good times should also be good times for pensioners, and the Austrian Federal Government has done just that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This year we have introduced full social security protection for Free Servants, there are overtime supplements for the first time for part-time workers, and a minimum wage of € 1000 has been agreed on the basis of the social partners – by the way, a project that remains unsuccessful in other countries. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Gross! Mr Bundeskanzler, there are gross and net! People still don't get...!]] In Germany there is still no agreement on minimum wages, in Austria reality has become. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the social partners in Austria who have supported the Austrian Federal Government in an optimal way. In particular, the minimum wage regulations were once again a very important example of what distinguishes Austria from other European countries. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have – for a long time now – for the first time increased student aid in Austria, we have extended the student support group; the same applies to the amount of scholarships and the number of scholarship recipients. We have also decided on an extension programme for childcare facilities to ensure an even better compatibility of work and family life. There was the first stage of school reforms in reducing school classes so that teachers have more time to deal with the children. There are smaller language groups, there are more teachers, there is more afternoon care. All of this will increase the chances of children and young people having more opportunities for a better life, better training and more opportunities in the labour market. This too is a policy that we can be proud of together, because it is a policy that points to the future and that offers more people more opportunities. This too is politics with social manuscript, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the area of child money, we have jointly decided to make a very important flexibilization, which primarily gives women more choice, namely to stay with the child at home shorter and to get a higher child's money – or to stay at home longer. More options will therefore be created for the people of Austria and the possibility of returning to work earlier. This also substantially improves the social situation of many young families in Austria, which have more opportunities with this flexibility. Mr Westenthaler, as you have referred to a VAT reduction in the area of medicines: That is an interesting proposal, but it is much, much less than what the House has already decided! What's that really about? – It's about the distress of every individual patient! If the High House – on the proposal of the Federal Government – has decided that the prescription fees will be limited to 2% of the net monthly income, then this means that a pensioner who, for example, has a net pension of €900 will not have to pay more than € 18 per month of prescription fees in the future! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You raised it! You raised her!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: We didn't raise anything!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have them...! Of course!]] I say to you, Mr Westenthaler, that this social policy measure, which is to be assessed as a milestone, helps the elderly considerably more than the VAT reduction you are now proposing too late in this area, because it would not reduce the majority of the cost of drugs for people! The comparison makes sure: BZÖ – or politics with social manuscript by this Austrian Federal Government?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The field of care is a very demanding one, since it covers many dimensions, and we have as the first chapter dealt with the question of legalising the 24-hour care at home. We have created a law on this, and this Federal Government is now taking additional €40 million to support this legalisation. We have laid a good foundation for legalisation in several stages, including what has been introduced today. You know, Mr Westenthaler, it is important that the people who now decide to take legal care do not have to be afraid that they will suffer any disadvantages for the time they have been illegally cared for, or that they will have to pay punishment, taxes or social security contributions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Gusenbauer is falling over!]] [[Abg. Haubner: That was the social...!]] In other words, Mr Westenthaler: The illegality that you, completely blind without looking at, have allowed for years, we now pardon overall and say: Swamm over it; we don't want to talk about this time anymore! – We want legal care and legal care in Austria, for which the appropriate laws are created. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Buchinger, fallen down! Like a... you fell down!]] We also stand – and we do not want to punish the people for the past of Westenthal, but to offer them a social and legal future in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Some comments on the development of the Austrian labour market, because I believe that this is of vital importance. [[Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Scheibner: Don't forget questions!]] My venerations Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are fortunate to have achieved a really good employment status; I have already pointed out the reduction in unemployment. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We have asked ten questions!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: 20 minutes are about!]] – One should not be turned under the carpet either: This year, with the redemption of the training guarantee, we will reassess a very important situation. No youth will stand on the street because a youth will either have a apprenticeship, in school or in a teaching workshop. – You may say: Okay, but there have already been such measures! – Yes, but the main difference is that we are going one step further, that everyone who is in such a measure will at the end also have completed vocational training – and that more young people will have more opportunities for professional work, more young people will have the guarantee that they will be able to complete training in Austria! This is a very important step in the future, because this will first make the businesses in Austria have the necessary professionals and second, the young people in Austria will have more opportunities. This is particularly important to me, because we want to have a youth in Austria, which has prospects – and does not have to give up on the black painting of Mr. Westenthal – because it knows that Austria is a good country, a country in which all young people have a future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, now to answer question 1: This so-called "swimm-over-action" allows a part of the care, namely the 24-hour care, to be legalised in a form that is easy to use for those affected. The action “Swimm over” will be introduced today as an initiative proposal, the Care Constitutional Act, and the National Council will then adopt the relevant decision on 30 or 31. That's right. Who's up to 30. In June 2008, he took care of the legalisation of his caregivers, and did not have to worry about the past. On question 2: How high the surplus revenue is can only be said at the beginning of March. I don't speculate on amounts. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't even know!]] As I have already said, 2007 has been very successful, with an increase of 3.4 percent. I only draw attention to the fact that the difference between the euro area and the eurozone is on average 0.7 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe the Minister of Finance can tell us?- Oh, my God!]] – The Minister of Finance will, of course, address these questions much more in detail. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank God!]] In any case: According to the Stability Report, Austria will achieve a budget deficit of 0.7 percent in 2007. Question 3: On the contrary: For Austrian families, additional €36 million will be made available by increasing the siblings' season in family support and €60 million more for childcare and linguistic support for financial support. The Federal Government has implemented a flexibilization of the child care allowance; the model is known to the High House. – In contrast to the previous scheme, a fair model of aliquotation has been found when the credit limit is exceeded. Questions 4, 5 and 6: It is true that, in particular, prices for food, rent and energy have increased considerably and are particularly affected by these categories of households with low incomes. As a compensation, the Federal Government, together with the social partners, has made sure that, as far as possible, all share in good economic growth and thus better manage the increased costs. I refer to the wage increases negotiated and reached by the trade unions last autumn, as well as to the increase in commuting fees and compensation allowances. Question 7: Recipe fees were increased from € 4.7 to € 4.8, i.e. moderate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did you hear that in the first row? Elevate!]] . I would point out that this will not be the case with the “people affected” you are referring to, because of course this will fall into the recipe fee cover of the 2% net limitation. Question 8: Unfortunately, it is indisputable that women are disadvantaged against men in income. This Federal Government is working to eliminate the causes of this disadvantage, with a view to this being done in school and in vocational training. The Federal Minister for Women has, moreover, already launched numerous measures to address this disadvantage. On the question 9: Even now, savers with small incomes have the possibility of applying for a refund of capital income tax. The BZÖ's proposal would allow the splitting of large amounts of money into many individual savings books to eliminate the income tax, so that very wealthy people would not have to pay Kest at all at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A savings book! One!]] Question 10: The rate of inflation in 2007 was 2.2 per cent, and we increased the minimum pension by 2.9 per cent, which is significantly above this rate of inflation. Moreover, the disproportionate increases in pensions have been criticized by various pension experts in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They don't know each other either!]] – As the Austrian Federal Government, however, we stand for this stronger increase in pensions, because we believe that the older generation should also share in the increased prosperity. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, when we compare Mr Westenthaler's statements with what the situation really is in Austria, we have to note that, based on an economically good situation, we have also used it to improve the social situation of many people in Austria last year. And there are not many countries in the world where this social progress has become as visible as in the year 2007 in Austria. This does not mean that we have already solved all the questions, but the direction in which we have gone is right, because with these social policy measures more people can participate in the prosperity, more people can also participate in economic growth in Austria than is the case elsewhere. That should make you happy, Mr Westenthaler, if people are really concerned about you. However, if you are concerned about insinuating people, fearing them, then you can continue as before. – I assume that, as in the last election, the bill will be presented to you by the electorate, because they are about working for Austria and not being polemised against Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I wouldn't be so sure!]] Against this background, I would like to thank you very much for the invitation to today's special meeting, which will give us sufficient opportunity to present the success balance of the Austrian Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13446	We are now going into the debate. The first round of speakers has a speaking time of 10 minutes each. The first is Mr Scheibner. As I said, 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13473	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Thank you, Mr Bundeskanzler, for some of the insights you are making us come here today. First of all, that you have brought almost the entire federal government – it happens relatively rarely that you are all so embroiled here – because this shows a innovation. You, Federal Chancellor, said: You're supposed to draw comparisons, and the comparison makes us sure! To do this, I have to say: Yes, you have changed in any case compared to the federal governments over the last decades, namely the number of government members. We have not used and had so many ministers and state secretaries for many, many years and decades! – For example, this is a innovation that you have introduced, but, as I believe, it is not for the benefit of Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That was not a positive reform measure! You have also opened up to us today something that was particularly interesting to me personally, namely that you prefer reading children's books rather than listening to Members here. You probably also like to watch cartoon films. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: He can do several at once!]] – Yes, Mrs. Colleague! There is this cartoon character – you probably know it too – this sponge SpongeBob, so you probably have the slogan for your care action “Swum over!”. It's all very funny, Mr. Federal Chancellor, but we're slowly laughing. You've taken over a situation, and you've become famous for it now. What did I hear from you? You said: Last year we had a good economic growth, there were 60 000 additional jobs, overall a great performance! – Yes, but not because of the work of your government! This is based on what you have taken over from your previous government because we have taken care of it because we have worked for the Austrian future under the most difficult conditions! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] You took over! Our concern now is that with this huge federal government, with the disputes, with the “swimm-over” and with all the history you play everything, Mr. Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They don't care!]] You said to draw comparisons. But one thing we've never had – and I've been here in the House for 17 years and I've already experienced great coalitions – a big coalition that doesn't want to and can do so much! I've never experienced that before. [[Abg. Dolinschek: That's not the way it is at...!]] You only need to read the APA reports or look at the newspapers to find out: There is an ÖVP clause to which Mrs Stadlbauer makes a broadcast – I do not know why this is necessary, perhaps you can tell me – and this clause is called “Willis Kochshow” and means that the ÖVP should work instead of celebrating parties. [[Abg. Lens: We don't know that either!]] That's just the official one hears like this, a small splitter from today's APA, but if you listen to what the coalition parties call to each other in the high house, then you're wondering. Madam President, these are not my quotes; not that you give me a call for an order for them. That's where you hear words in the direction of the speaker's pult like: You fool!, trample!, idealess!, Marxist!, Hornochse!, let's show it to you!, Sit down, that's better!, go ham! – This is a small extract of what I have heard during the last debates, how one has ‘become’ here in this coalition. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What beats, that loves itself!]] Mr President, in such a climate, of course, nothing can be brought together. If you are constantly watching each other, constantly arguing with each other, constantly criticizing each other and reviling each other, you cannot take up major reforms. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said: The comparison makes us sure! – Yes, the comparison makes us and also the many Austrians sure: They're tired, they're tired of this fight! They want these vanitys to be exchanged for this country, for which people in Austria are being worked, and not, Mr Parnigoni. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni:... Current account! The Federal Chancellor has 20 minutes...!]] – A current account? Where was the current account? Where were you? Mr Parnigoni, you are prophetic because you already know what I am going to show you. You know what I got here? – Look It's up to you! You will read it for a long time – longer than 20 minutes, especially you – if you see it through! That was the current account of one year's bowl / giant-passer, ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They went on demonstration at the time – we had more than 200 demonstrations at the time – and we worked: We have made a pension reform, we have rehabilitated the budget deficit that you have handed over to us, Mr Parnigoni, so much on the subject of “comparation”. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We have prepared and implemented tax reduction programmes, which, Mr Cap, have been the basis precisely for the Austrians to make more of an effort to ensure that the economy has prosperated that businesses have not locked up but have even come from abroad to Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have made privatisation initiatives against which you have worked vehemently. I remember the Voest privatisation in Upper Austria, where your chief, who is really always in the lower drawer, spoke of a “sale” of this important company. . We have implemented this, and today we are all happy about it because thousands of jobs could be secured by these privatisations. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] We have managed to reorganise the successor society of the nationalized industry, the ÖIAG! Billions of debt were cut down, and yet the companies that were there were worth more than before the privatizations. That, Mr. Bundeskanzler, is the comparison that makes the Austrians sure, because he shows that nothing really does do better, so many, many Austrians look back after these federal governments from the years 2000 to 2007. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Incredible!]] It is truly incredible that there is such a government these days, Mr Parnigoni, who, for example, when we return to care now, will permanently change the Constitution. That's where I heard: We'll do all this differently! - No! Now, with a constitutional majority, you will relinquish any control of the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Parnigoni: For you the care was... a micky mouse theme!]] Mr Parnigoni, we raised it, and we had the idea of valorization, which brings about real sustainable improvements in this area. In order to allow you to vote accordingly, Mr Parnigoni, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I would like to put in place a comprehensive motion for a resolution by Mrs Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues, who is heading exactly towards ‘the Pact for a Social Austria’, because we want to have a socially just and manageable care, Mr Parnigoni. We also want tax relief – but now! Mr Finanzminister, you once said the flat tax is interesting. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is she?- Oh, my God!]] [[New calls from the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – Wonderful, then we will do you, Minister of Finance! Yes, this is a sensible, simple tax system with a tax rate with which we are really strengthening purchasing power, Mr Parnigoni. This gives us a signal to the economy, because healthy jobs are only available if Austria is a healthy economic location. And a tax reduction must be permanent. It is not possible to increase the mineral oil tax as you have done, namely at a time when the fuel prices are rising, to get people deeper into the bag. We want to continue to strengthen families by deleting, for example, the amount of child care benefits by introducing a value of €1,000 for mothers, by also making a cost compensation for households. It is a matter of relief for drivers and commuters by a deductibility of travel costs, Mr. Bundeskanzler. We have carried out a heating grant – you have asked the last German government to do so. We said one time is too little. Where is the federal heating aid, especially now that the oil prices have reached a record value? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They're always laughing back there. [[towards the Minister Bank]] Yes, please, then continue reading the children’s book, continue to look at “SpongeBob”, but let at least others work. But you are blocking everything in this country! They say we're late with the health system. That's where I ask you: Where are the new ideas? – You have a large majority. Make a change of philosophy in the health system – I have often said this here – not only by financing the disease, but also by investing in prevention, prevention, health protection, and administrative savings! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, we have taken at least first steps – against your votes. You now have a large majority, but in this area you do not do anything, Mr. Bundeskanzler, unless you increase your contributions! [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] I do believe that you do not know that we have done something, for there you have had scams in your ears and in front of your eyes: hear nothing, see nothing; The main thing is to finally reach my goal – sandbox, “SpongeBob”, children’s books – to become Federal Chancellor! That's just a little bit, ladies and gentlemen! You also have to have a vision. One must be convinced that in this country one can also come further into the future with the people. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You went with your vision baths!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Tax freedom for the little savers – these would be interesting things! – such as the capital income tax, and above all fair pensions. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You are currently playing in the sandbox, Mr Scheibner!]] One thing is also interesting: When you were still in opposition and we raised the smallest pensions by 5 percent, there was the robbery of the pension. Now you increase the smallest pensions by 1.7 percent, with inflation far above 2 percent, and that's suddenly a great pension reform! [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's what you're saying! That's wrong!]] You don't know anything that you sit there in the first row, because you didn't even know that the recipe fee has been increased. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes, yes!]] But You always believe what the section spends on propaganda material. You should deal with reality! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We also know that not everyone knows what he's doing here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So, Mr. Federal Chancellor: Take this request with you – not just the children's book – read in it! I hope you do somethin'. It would be for the good of Austria and the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13780	Mr Scheibner, just to clarify: If the words you mentioned were in the context of a plenary debate, of course there would have been calls for orders. But that was not the case. On your motion for a resolution: They explained it in the key points. Due to the length of the application, I leave it according to § 53 para. 4 distribution of the GOG to all Members of Parliament; with this he is also involved in the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14096	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14117	Madam President. High house! Mr Scheibner, what was that? – They come out here, and they push tears over the fact that you are no longer in the government. You should be a museum director! I also say quite honestly to you that you have suppressed a few events when the BZÖ was in the government at the time. I don't want to waste too much time here because of your 4.1 percent you got. But let us remember that there have been all the round-door ministers because, because of a lack of qualifications, ministers have come and gone. Now, if I hear the speech of the clubman Westenthaler and let her happen again: He spoke here as if he were just talking about the winter 1918/1919 in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But this is how many!]] After the BZÖ has presented the Social Minister, the BZÖ, to the Minister for Infrastructure, he is here after twelve months of this new federal government and is giving a lecture on the Russian winter. That can't be true! He comes out, pulls tears and says: Unfortunately, I am no longer in the government, my life has become pointless! – What is that opposition? [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] What is this initiative that you are bringing in here? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is almost as depressive as today’s opinion by Minister Bartenstein in the “Kurier”. He thinks with a very sad facial expression about a new electoral system because of the fact that on 1st January he is the only one who has a very sad facial expression. In October 2006, ÖVP did not become the first. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's going on again!]] All this doesn't make sense! I would like to take up a word that you have spoken: the visions. That is exactly what would be decisive now that we should put together all our forces – the Federal Government, the constructive forces in the opposition parties – and think about the extent to which Austria can appear internationally self-confidently and competitively and again sets marks: in the research field, in the science, in the cultural field, in the sports sector, where it is such a concern to all of us. [[Abg. Scheibner: Start with this!]] In the field of education, for the future of our children so that they can be truly competitive in national and international labour markets. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] These are the major themes: to bring our Austrian success story into Europe once more, to bring our social model into the respective modernized and reformed form, to bring our social state traditions in. That's it: a model of the society of peaceful living together of different ethnic groups, different religions, different cultures, but not loud apocalyptic opposition images, loud images of fear, loud images of enemies. That's absurd, so you can't cope with the future! [[Abg. Scheibner: You did that!]] This is exactly the line that some of the opposition comes out here. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] It's a shame around the time! That doesn't make Austria anything you're doing, I'm really telling you that quite honestly. Opposition-new would also have been if you were to make yourself today and say: Okay, we have something to criticize, the criticism points we like to bring in; but at the same time, we believe, there are also a lot of positive things that this government has brought out objectively positive. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... but expensive!]] When we were in opposition, we did not hold back from addressing really positive things. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] No, not what you always wanted to hear, but what really was objectively positive. I tell you quite honestly what we have achieved together here is the fight against undeclared work, the reduction of the number of school students, the increase in student support, the increase in study aid, the reception fee cover, the record investments in infrastructure, climate protection, election with 16, victim protection expansion, more staff for justice, flexibilization of child allowances, extension of childcare facilities, reduction in the purchase of eurofighters, animal welfare, animal transport, new middle school. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is more staff?]] [[Further call-ins]] No, you don't want to hear that, but you just have to hear it because that's the positive points. I could talk for a longer time and list these positive points. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do people not know?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The people are just too stupid that they don't...?]] Climate protection has made the greens a bit nervous. But it is simply that so many green issues have been found and implemented in the Federal Government. You no longer have a monopoly on the green topics; do you know why? – In reality, you also care too little for them. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] They just left it to us – thank you! [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We like to accept them and let them enter our work here immediately. I think it was really neat when Klubobmann Westenthaler talked about the fight. Granted, where different interests are, there are sometimes also different positions. This has to be discussed, and if there is a developed culture of conflict in the media, it will be understood as a normal explanation of different interests and not always as a dispute. But how were you? – Monastery silence has ruled in the government because you were government administrators. According to this motto, we are not inside, but we simply want to work out our positions together in the constructive disput. - Don't laugh at the government bank! I'm just trying to present this positively, and you're laughing behind me. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Of course I can't. Now I have to intervene, and I have to say that this is something different from what Klubobmann Westenthaler presented here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They don't believe what you say!]] I am glad that Mr. Klubobmann reads children's books in Westenthal. We already knew that you liked reading children's books. We also know that: You will continue to be happy to read children's books. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] But you should also read other books, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler! Not all wisdoms are already contained in the children's books, although many wisdoms are inside and we are interested in the fact that these wisdoms later enter into life. A next clean point – that was a clean speech at all – was the thing with what he says post-chacher. That's a laugh number! If anyone's been running post chess until excretion, then you're really record holder since 1945! There have been a lot of post chess, but you have really made it almost exclusively. The entrance to the Ministry of Infrastructure: You were in an orange grove! That's the truth. You didn't look at the quality of the oranges, there were also a lot of lazy oranges. It was meated for them; The main thing is, the oranges were inside! I can only say, then stand here and talk about post-chacher, with a facial expression, as if I were standing on your foot with my foot. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] That is how Klubobmann Westenthaler makes this speech. But the very best is – that's the third good point – when he is a representative of the drivers. I come the tears of rupture, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler! Who, then, has introduced “light a day”, about which all experts are still shaking their heads because it was so absurd? Who experimented with 160 km/h? Who was that? – This was the much sought-after former Minister Gorbach, who is tearing the big corporations today without knowing who will take him so that he will finally take a leadership there. He's put all this in for us! Thank you for finally being abolished, because in reality... [[towards the Minister Bank]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But the SPÖ has agreed!]] Did you actually take part in the introduction of “light on the day ”? – That is no longer present to me, as we voted at the time. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The SPÖ has agreed!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] I am glad that it has been abolished, and therefore I tell you: Let us be glad that this is no longer a point that has to be dealt with here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You belong to the cabaret program! Don't even know how he voted!]] [[Further calls.]] Why is there this excitement now? – It has already been abolished anyway. Don't wake up like that, it's already gone. Stay calm, think about your blood pressure! Stay calm, keep listening. I therefore think that this is a good opportunity for us to meet here. Sometimes you say: This minister is missing, that minister is missing, where is he, where is he?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Then comes, in the sense that there is also a balance over the last government year, once the entire federal government out of respect for Parliament. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with greens and FPÖ.]] That is why you should not hone around here and say: Look, he's taking the whole government with me, but I'm surprised! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: On TV...!]] Listen, if you can choose it, I also know something better to do than listen to your speech, Mr Scheibner. But it's like I'm a member of the National Council here and I'm listening to it because it belongs to democratic culture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I would ask you not to do so here as if it really would not happen out of respect for Parliament. [[Abg. Scheibner: What would you have better to do?]] So where are the contrast pairs? – Simple: We stand for more education; They have stood for the reduction of lessons and teachers' posts. We stand for the performance of the health system; They're for a reduction in performance. I must complement your speech, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Cap reads from the section post here!]] They stand for the sale of the Austrian companies; we are in favour of boosting the economy. Thank you, Erich Haider, for defending the attack on the Upper Austrian energy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Tax reform: pay off justly, not tax gifts to large corporations; with the latter you are meant again. Women's promotion: Thank you for having your own women's ministry; not back to the stove. Pension increases instead of pension cuts; you are responsible for the latter, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler. More employment and less unemployment! I think one should focus on the work of the Federal Government – the points that are really a success – and also present them accordingly. I think the audiences will want to know because it concerns their lives. We are trying to work for Austria, and visions for this country are also to be developed, especially now that competition, the globalisation process, the European markets challenge us. We should face this challenge and not say: I'm small, oh, I'm not going to make it, my God, I already have winter depression, and that's going to go into old age depression. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] No, no, no! Optimistically, the sleeves crawl and see that we solve the country's problems for the country! [[Call at the FPÖ: It will be light!]] I'm optimistic!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14484	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Schüssel. Speech time: also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14506	High house! As you can see, a special session can be quite instructive and entertaining. First of all, some ambiguities have been resolved during the speech, such as the one that the SPÖ voted in the introduction of “light on the day”, which may not be bad. The vision of the Minister of Economic Affairs is also beneficially different from your bleaching visions. That's why I think it's all very good. In addition, there is a level playing field in politics. These mirror sentences are that the accusations you have made us, of course, are now making the opposition of this joint government; that is so. [[towards SPÖ]] Conversely, it is also true that some of what you probably would like to rejoice, support or support that many positive events are only taking place now; that is so. [[towards BZÖ]] I think that is why we should also distinguish a little. We have now had God thanks to two years of very good economic growth; that is the good news. It's not just since the 11th. January 2007 the case, but that started two years ago, and of course this has a lot to do with the performance of the Austrian economy – it also supports appropriate policy measures, which is clear. But on the other hand – that should not go down today – these two good years are over. It won't stay like that. We are already faced with significant economic downturns, growth next year will be about a third lower than last year. We have a number of risks we have to deal with. You just have to look at what's happening in America! In the last quarter there was a loss of 10 billion dollars for one of the big banks, 20 billion for the Citibank. The Swiss large bank UBS must take in international investors in order to survive. We have an oil price that has already gone over 100 dollars per barrel. I really believe that we should go a little bit away from the philosophy “Everything is possible” and that, as the Minister of Finance often says, the budget is almost a banknote: filled in heaven and removed on earth. It's not like that! A little more serious also in the debate is quite appropriate with regard to the problems we face. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But thank you for the balance sheet special session we have received today! The balance sheet of last year is absolutely clear. As has been said, we have had very good economic growth for two years. Since EU accession – not just since yesterday, but since EU accession – the Austrian economy has grown faster than those in Germany and Switzerland. Since the introduction of the euro, the Austrian economy has grown faster than the economy throughout the euro area. We have an active trade balance. These are, please, truly enormous conditions on which we can build thanks to God. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Peter Westenthaler! The accusation of “social cold ” has been just as wrong in recent years as it is now not right. With a social rate of 29 percent, Austria is one of the economically strongest and most social countries in the world. We can be proud of that together, dear friends! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is true, especially in family policy – which is particularly important to all of us; I believe that society and Austria must become more child-friendly, family-friendly, hopefully also in tax law – enormous impulses have been made: the multi-children's season; the new electoral stage that has been introduced; the limits of trust have been adapted. With 1. In January 2008, we introduced the baby bonus, i.e. every birth is now free of charge. There is no such thing all over the world, but it has been implemented thanks to God in Austria – a great success! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It's true, of course, you can come from many sides now. We have introduced the automatic adjustment of pensions following the inflation rate last year. We have raised pensions by 600 million in this year, i.e. for now. Please, this is the largest single budget item in the increase that the state has to give at all! I do not think we can raise the accusation of the social cold. The seniors in Austria are well removed, and that will continue to be the case in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is also true that we need to invest more than ever for the future. Minister Faymann has always said that to us. It has already been made under Gorbach a lot for the infrastructure, and it is now being further increased at this very high level. That's a good thing. The same applies to education, the reduction of the maximum number of students. There is more for research and development. The maintenance and improvement of the flower bonus for apprentices is also a very important impulse. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you very much for this: In fact, with this special meeting, Peter Westenthaler has even brought us a positive point in terms of content and also in parliamentary terms, because today, with this joint initiative proposal from the Federal Government and the Government parties, we can make an accelerated adoption of this improved penalty exemption. This is even better than the care amnesty that originally existed, because it covers all areas, not only administrative penalties and taxes, but also the social security contributions of recent years cannot be recovered. This is also useful – and for this I really thank the ministers Buchinger, Bartenstein and Andrea Kdolsky, who have negotiated this together – because this, of course, creates a pressure, even an invitation, an acceleration of the legalisation process. That makes sense. None of us want there to be illegality, but there is now a certain pressure, an invitation, a very strong invitation to legalize it. This will be done with the help of this initiative proposal – with which we are happy to invite you to go along – I think much better. We are also following the recommendation of practitioners who have repeatedly told us this over the past few weeks. There certainly some conviction – I would like to mention here also Gerti Aubauer, who has been very strong – has helped. This is a common success in the interests of the people, and we are ultimately concerned with this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is of course also worth mentioning that this is the first time we have a significant reduction in CO2 emissions: at least by 2 million tonnes, which is not little. I would not just laugh at it, Madam President Glavischnig, because 2 million tonnes have or do not have are already remarkable. By the way, this is related to the introduction of the biodiesel and the increased use of renewable energies. We want to continue along this path, Madam President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also applies in the field of internal security. We now have the criminal statistics of last year, which is essentially the same as in 2006. If one calculates the number of newly introduced offences – stalking and also Internet crime – we are even below 2006. That is not to say that there are no areas of problem, such as youth crime. We also need to look at this together – here the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice with us – and it is an important issue. But we also see a very gratifying trend with the asylum seekers. Compared to 2005, the number of asylum seekers has been halved, with a quarter falling compared to 2003. Two years ago we had more than 1,500 people in Traiskirchen, today it is just over 700. – In total, not bad. Ladies and gentlemen, allow you to say something new at the end. Personally, I have heard with great stranger and also with great concern about the statements of a municipal councillor in the Graz election campaign. I am very concerned about this because in Austria we have a very special model of living together of religions and of the population. You can destroy this very quickly! It is not easy for the Islamic community to fight some radical tendencies that exist, of course, and to dry together with us, when this is kindled in an intentional, non-differentiated, flat-rate form. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this is a great danger to internal dialogue and to inner peace. But Austria could even become a target, and that is something we must not tolerate under any circumstances! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] I therefore really expect, Mr Klubobmann Strache, that you will be making a clarification at this point in the interests of all of us and, above all, of the citizens in Austria, because you can destroy something very quickly. I think the response of the Islamic community was extremely moderate and very positive. Perhaps you should take that up in your speech afterwards. The last sentence: They have also compared this with the "connect" to Hitler Germany at a municipal council event – we are bringing this European Treaty into the House today and are still talking about it – with the year 1938. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Strache! The difference between a referendum in front of the Nazi rifles and a referendum in the 12th century. In June 1994, in full freedom, two thirds of the Austrians opted for membership, for which participation in this peace and economic project of the European Union, is very big! You still have two months – until 12. March 2008 – to learn a little story. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] That would be very useful, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14618	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14640	Madam President. At the end of the day, I will also come back to what Klubobmann Kussel has done. In advance to today's topic: I have to say that it is not easy for me to decide what is now more difficult to accept: Mr Westenthaler's market scream, it is all terrible and cruel, the social cold throughout Austria takes on arctic dimensions – and if you read through it, even your ten points, then you do not know what is really important to you of these ten points – or the super cabaret of my colleague Cap, who, as we all know, was already an exemplary, excellent opposition politician – you have reminded us of this again today – an even more exemplary government politician, in every respect exemplary. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then sleep on! Go back to sleep!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are the Garfield of the High House!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It woke you up!]] It'd be nice if you left us with this judgment. But we note that there is some positive self-esteem here. You don't mind. Only I mean, Josef Cap, we can already distinguish between what a gag and a cabaret is and what is pure cynicism. “Respect in front of Parliament” of you, who are you taking a security police law without consulting the competent committee, Husch-Pfuss overnight? Before Christmas 60 laws in three days ago, that is “respect for Parliament ”? What did we have to hear from you until the 2006 elections and the months after that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will take Parliament seriously! We will see that the opposition also comes to its right! Of course, the opposition proposals will be included! - All this and more, you said. But what's now? – Just the same as before, only with the difference that you also have the two-thirds majority, and that makes you, this kind of government, in a way more dangerous than the old blue-black or black-orange. I'd like to hold on to that. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Thank you, Mr Scheibner, for the applause. It is always nice to note in the Minutes that there is also applause from other political groups. Mr Westenthaler, on your question: It's not like you're not making important points. But I think you'll always stay in some kind of superficiality, just so much about it, and you'll be left: It all has to be cheaper, the state has to pay everything, of course we can't collect taxes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You want to raise it!]] May I ask you: And how does that work? An example: Of course you are right, we must support the poor, the needy households with a heating grant. That's not a question. But go so far with us, the Greens, that we say: We also have a serious problem with small and medium-sized enterprises here!Unknown term type: "%s".? Today, hundreds of thousands of households have to heat with oil and gas. We must tackle these budgets, help them with information, funding and so on, so that this situation will end in an appropriate time: Rush of oil and gas in view of price developments in this sector! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It does not exclude the other!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, we will also need the appropriate means of taxation at state level. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the application?]] You want a KESt exemption from savings up to € 15,000 per person. But then I would ask you to also say that, of course, the banking secret is not compatible with that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is no longer any more!]] You can certainly talk about your proposal, but then you have to talk about the relationship between the financial office and the bank. You have to say that. Huge price increases for certain basic foods: Right! That's important. But we also need to look at the question – since I refer to Mr Schüssel from the outset – to what extent the so-called biofuels – agrodiesel, I prefer – have contributed to this increase in prices for basic food, especially for certain raw materials. The question is whether this is not an illusion – I believe it is an illusion – which the European Union and the USA, but also Austria, have been able to believe in the situation of oil, petrol and diesel, this fuel situation with so-called biofuels. I do not believe that, and we are now seeing the consequences of the supply of basic food. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Last but not least in this context: Care and care. Mr Westenthaler, in your request you are always talking only about the care in private households, but you obviously mean care, not medical care. You're talking about the 24-hour care, and you're talking about a very narrow – an important but narrow – segment of care and care cases. We appreciate that it is about 5 percent of those concerned that we are constantly evocating about here – important, very important, but only a very small section of those involved in medical care and care at home. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 15,000!]] On this point, Mr Westenthaler: One has already filled me with satisfaction, with limitation, but anyway. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just don't apply too thick!]] In your request there is no word that we have to deal with these so-called amnesty schemes, or as they all may be called, with foreign nurses, caregivers, mainly Slovak, Czech, Romanian and Hungarian. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did you get this again?]] I just remember that you still wanted to show 300 000 foreigners from Austria in the 2006 election campaign. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Of course! If they're going to stay here illegally!]] There was already a discussion about the care emergency in Austria at the time, however, the German Chancellor Schüssel then disputed, which did not necessarily contribute to the election of the ÖVP in 2006. And to the explicit question to you whether you want to identify those of the media, and as I believe, in general, the right number of 40,000 caregivers who are foreigners from Austria, Mr. Westenthaler, you have said: Yes, of course! Sure! Illegals out! - You said that. I hope you have learned that this is an essential sector in the health sector, whose problem with such slogans cannot be solved. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Scheibner: These are EU foreigners!]] Finally, on the events in Graz and on Mr. Strache: It is quite clear that there is an attempt here at the arson of your party colleague Winter. She deliberately and consciously tries to sabotage the peace of religion in Austria. They try very consciously to build images of enemies, to build hate objects for frightened, misleading people – and then, if you did, if anything happens, stylize yourself as a victim. This is as clear as anything, and it is, I think, immeasurably stupid on the one hand, and dangerous on the other. I wonder, Where will that stop? What provocation will we soon have to deal with? I have to tell you the truth: If I were Muslim – which I am not known – I would refuse to sit down with someone like you or with Mrs Winter to conduct the so-called critical dialogue. – Yes, we must conduct this dialogue, between religions, between different organizations, about the role of women, about the education of the children, boys, girls in the public school, about all the problems we know, the willingness to learn something about it, the questions of the labour market and so on. But with people who remember my prophets with such a loathsome, slanderous words, I would not sit down. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is true that the Islamic community has been very reticent, very reasonable. But what is to be expected of a woman named Winter, whose party chairman draws parallels between the reform treaty of the Union, the European Union, and the “connect” of Austria to Nazi Germany in 1938. [[Abg. Strache: I didn't say that! We want to learn from it! We do not want to sacrifice the freedom, sovereignty and neutrality of Austria to the EU!]] Austria would have learned nothing from history if the EU's reform treaty was now being treated or in any way associated with the "connecting" to Nazi Germany. [[Abg. No one did that!]] This is so reckless and ridiculous that I wonder what you want to achieve with it. They do not seriously want to suggest to any person in this country that, with the signing of the reform treaty, thousands of Austrians come to Dachau concentration camp that the Reich crystal night is about to come again; if I am not mistaken, it was in November 1938. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No one said that either! That's what you're saying!]] [[Abg. Blow: levelless!]] Don't you think you're gonna want to put that down?- Oh, my God! What do you mean? The only thing from your point of view, “reasonable goal” – under quotation marks, under triple quotation marks – that I can imagine in this situation is that with such silly, stupid, reprehensible comparisons and equations, you are basically seeking an insolence of the Nazi regime. What else? [[Abg. Strache: It's just a sulphur now!]] What else is going to come out of this thing? I am very excited about how you are going to do it, then to take responsibility here at this speaker's desk in front of all the public.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14966	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14987	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear government team! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months, we have seen that the Austrian population has had the opportunity, in many surveys by many institutions, to make a so-called note of the work of this Federal Government. Interestingly, because the population is dissatisfied with the work of this red-black federal government, because there is a five-way, a so-called spot, one would say today in the general language usage that would stand in the witness, which would mean that one would sit with it. Today I am also aware of why the SPÖ wants to abolish the notes. I am aware of why the school notes should be abolished, because in the performance that this government has brought, they would sit down. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Very “white”!]] The people are not wrong! Today, the government is pretending to be misguided again by the population. The population does not realize what great achievements the Federal Government has brought last year. – That’s exactly the point! And, of course, the population will not go to the glues that have once had the chance to make it better in the government responsibility, which have already had the opportunity to implement what has been put into practice by the BZÖ today. [[Abg. Scheibner: And you weren't there?]] We are already wondering why the rulings of the BZÖ have not implemented this at this stage. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Many remember!]] That's why there was disappointment. Then why did this government become one? Selected October 2006? – Because you were dissatisfied with Chancellor Schüssel and the government at the time because there was social cold. Now it is experienced that what was chosen in 2006 has continued to be found. The bowl course, which received a rejection because it was not responsible for social policy, will now continue one by one under a red Chancellor who finally sees his sandbox dream fulfilled. That is why people are dissatisfied. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly the point! That is why it is also so symbolic that on this series of seats, the German Chancellor of the German Federal Republic is almost encroached on by black ministers. [[the speaker points towards the government bank]] This is a symbolic fact, because the Austrians have this very impression that social responsibility has not taken place in this government and that real sand is in this government's gear. There are many hopes that no one has had, but even that has been further disappointed by the fact that there have been permanent disputes, that there have been permanent exchanges of views. Chaos, a mixture of indifference to the government leaders, dilettantism – that was a recipe that had been a method last year. And there have been massive problems left. The care chaos has been addressed. Over the past few months, one has only been talking more about trying to extend an illegal state over and over again. Now we have finally got rid of it, and we are doing a little deeper than simply extending the illegal state of 40 000 illegal caregivers we have and we need. But there is also a failure, please, a deeper failure. 400,000 people today care for their family members at home, and these are the true heroes of everyday life. They need an increase in the care allowance! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is 20 percent loss of value in this area. The 400,000 people who care for their family members today alone at home are abandoned. One does not ensure an adjustment of the care allowance for the 20 percent loss of value, which has existed, does not provide basic care for people in need of care, no, one also wants to take off the last shirt, although they have worked, created and paid taxes for a lifetime. There is more social responsibility for our older fellow human beings who have become nursing cases. Also in the area of pension robbery, which unfortunately has been an blatant pension robbery in recent years. Even under the previous government, there was no index adjustment for years. Now there's a new government, and it's been down again. Today, 400 000 pensioners remain on the line with 1.7 percent because their pensions are below the guide of the compensation allowance. It's not social! These are problems that we need to see in our society today. People are affected by this, they feel that they are not better, but unfortunately God is partly worse. We are experiencing social cold, which is present despite economic growth. Yeah, luckily, there's economic growth. Good luck! It is not the Federal Government's responsibility for this economic growth either. But who feels something about it? We have economic growth, yes, in the field of industry. For small and medium-sized enterprises, it will become more problematic. There are then many companies that no longer have equity, which are partly driven into insolvency and bankruptcy, have problems. That's where we have to sit! When we see who in the population has something of economic growth, we insist that in our society there seems to be no fair distribution of economic growth. Then we insist that we have to experience that 90 percent of Austrians feel nothing of economic growth, except that they can read in the newspaper that there is one thing, but with their income no longer find any income, with their income at higher prices. Since the introduction of the euro as a teuro, they have experienced price increases in all areas – food costs, gas, electricity, petrol prices, rents, operating costs – while the salary level has remained relatively stable. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Don't forget the ORF charges!]] That's the point: People are really in a crisis. Over a million people in Austria are at risk of poverty. In Graz 40 000 people are at risk of poverty. And you're trying to talk to these people, they're going to be perfect and good anyway, and you're supposed to be so social and accept their concerns. That is not the case! The income has to be so high today that you can live well on it and don't need three or four jobs due to Mc-Jobs to get over the rounds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the problem of our time with which we should deal, and there the Minister for Finance has €12 billion. More revenue, more tax revenue in 2007 compared to 1997, an opportunity to help now, an opportunity to implement a package of measures which we propose to liberals, namely to ensure relief from workers and to finally increase and increase purchasing power there, of course, to introduce an index for pensioners, which is not a mild gift, that is a right for pensioners to obtain inflation adjustment, pensioners who have worked, trained and paid taxes for a lifetime. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, we also need to finally relieve small and medium-sized enterprises. There, in the field of medium-sized enterprises, a discharge offensive is needed, so that small and medium-sized enterprises do not partially fall under the wheels as they do today, not as today are or are standing up to terminations, because small and medium-sized enterprises simply have difficulties. There we have to stop, pay-by-cost reduction. In many, many areas there is a need for action. And as a third point, a family relief offensive, with a family tax division, so that we finally support our families in society and give our children and our families a corresponding value in our society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, no! That's the wrong way!]] So there's a lot to do. The list that you are responsible for last year is a long sad one – which you can continue endlessly –: failed integration policy, increased crime, scandalous asylum and immigration policy, war deployment in Chad, Schengen enlargement, by increasing illegals, as we now see in Trais churches, increasing crime until then, seeking an EU constitutional dictatorship without referendum. This is exactly what it is about, Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen and Mr Klubobmann Schüssel: We must have learned something from history. We do not want to give up our sovereignty, independence and neutrality – and this with a breach of constitution without a referendum! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That can be your goal, please! And that's exactly what I said. Of course, we must also address the fact that there are misdevelopments in our society. Parallel societies that have developed through a false immigration policy, which has also been caused by governments in recent years. We must pursue a false immigration policy, through which parallel societies have also developed, because people have come to us who do not respect our legal system at all. Mrs Prokop, who unfortunately died too early, has put it to the point: Unfortunately, 50 percent of the Muslims living in Austria – which they have published in a study – are not ready for integration and not integrative. We have to take this seriously. We must take seriously that there are forced marriages of children and young people also in Austria. We have to take this seriously, too. The Children's and Youth Prosecutions in Vienna 2005 alone wrote about the fact that 50 percent of all affected girls or children who report are in situations of forced marriages and threatened with honorary murder – in Austria! Not in Afghanistan! Not somewhere in the world, but here with us. And that does not correspond to our legal system! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We must therefore defend our legal system, our society, our values, and that is exactly what freedom policy, which unfortunately you are not prepared to do to God at times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15159	There is now Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer's word. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15180	Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is also our common responsibility on the part of the Federal Government and all the parties here in Parliament to use this special meeting as a differentiated discourse on politics in Austria. What I regret – I say quite openly to you – is that sometimes the impression is that there is only black and white in politics. Or there is the impression that it is the only way to argue, so to speak, with interruptions or far beyond the usual emotion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Black-red!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There's also black-red!]] I do not want to, but I want us to give the people of Austria a solid, positive perspective. We are here: the government parties as well as the opposition. And the opposition must not be taken from the responsibility for the country. That is my firm conviction, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore: Let us discuss this quite openly, Mr. Westenthaler. What are the facts? – Yes, we have indeed taken a very solid development in recent years, and this federal government can build on this stable and solid fundament of our home country Austria. This has led to the fact that in 2007 we had over 3.3 million people in employment in Austria as we have never before in the history of the country. That is absolutely positive. For two years unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, has been falling in our country. That is absolutely positive. It is the goal that we can also give work to all people who want to work. In my view, we are on the right road, yes, because we have also changed Austria positively in recent years. We have become more competitive. We worked out an advantage. It is our task, after all, to have this advantage, this competitive advantage, so that people have something of it. And that's what this federal government wants, we're going to do it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This growth perspective has enabled the economy to have for this year, for example, wage closures that we have not always had. We can afford this because we have really invested, ladies and gentlemen. And this growth advantage, which we have developed together in politics with the economy, also enables us to invest. And a pension adjustment for this year of a total of € 650 million – so that we know what we're talking about – is something we can afford now because we've taken good care of, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. There are 400 000 women under the compensation allowance!]] Mr Strache, you have told me – continue with this differentiation! – that you have been surprised at the extent of the pension increase. Why Saying You're not even talking about what you're saying under four eyes? [[Abg. Strache: I didn't say that!]] I think this differentiation is necessary in politics, and not this black and white painting, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And this enables us to invest in the area of social security – family money, child money flexibility – because we have developed this scope for movement and investment. That's right and that's good. It is also an alternative way. I also say in this discussion, which is sometimes something emotional, in all clarity: It has to be achieved first, which will be distributed later. Something else would be irresponsible in politics because it simply means new debt. I don't want to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because this is the case, we have also taken care of it. We have had many discussions; They've all been persecuting this and they've also commented. And I say today, I am glad that we can actually take this step in the care that on the one hand we have a solid legal basis with the promotions, but at the same time we have received the voices of the people who have told us: Please give us time! This extension, these sanctions for half a year, is something that people in this country are grateful for. And I am grateful that we have reached this broad consensus after a, admittedly, somewhat difficult discussion. It has paid off this discussion and this commitment to the people of this country, ladies and gentlemen. Policy also means addressing people and answering their questions. It is important not only to refer to the details of the so-called hackler regulation or the automatic pension adjustment factor, but also to the fact that with the pension, with this agreement we have now reached, we have actually put the end to the pension reform. We will present this initiative to the House together in March, because we have also made it clear to the House: That is right, that is a positive social policy perspective in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, I want this differentiation in the discussion, and they also need people because they want answers from us and you all here in the House. We are obliged to give these answers, for example, in the field of care, just as we do. I also need the perspective discussion – this federal government has one year of work behind it and three years of work ahead of itself – on the important issues. What is particularly important to me as Minister of Finance is that we make a responsible budgetary policy in this country. Responsible budgetary policy means simply and simply that we now have to work so solidly that we can make investments without new debts. What are other debts than a robbery of the future committed to young people? I don't want that! That must be done! But that also means, ladies and gentlemen – and here too a clear word to all, not only to the opposition –: Those who make proposals for new expenditure must at the same time say how these new expenditures are covered, I simply demand this in the interest of taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An important perspective is – this is a real task for all of us – to keep the growth gap in Austria in order to achieve the goal of full employment with a better growth of the economy. But we cannot do that by leaving everything the way it is, but by changing where change is necessary. We need security perspectives for Austria, and I am truly grateful to Günther Platter for having consistently taken this path in the Federal Government with all our support. It was worth it. The new foreign law has the right effect, the new asylum law has the right effect; and I tell you, it will also be our task not to look away when it comes to violence among young people, against young people and through young people. This requires a consistent response, an uncompromising response from politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A question I would also like to address this year as a priority: The subject of tax relief has been addressed. Of course this is the goal! Professor Van der Bellen! That's where I distinguish diametrically from your position. We need the discharge because it is important for purchasing power and for growth, but I see our task in that we are now developing the scope for discharge, and I want to achieve that we relieve people without making new debts. It is not an art, Mr Strache, to do tax relief either with counter-funding, that I do not want, because then it gives one hand what the other takes. Politics doesn't work that way. But I do not want to finance them either by debt, which is in fact at the expense of young people. We have the health reform, the state reform, we have integration as an important task of policy. In conclusion, I should also like to say a very open word to you, Mr Strache, and to all those who have been unnecessarily involved in this discussion. To discuss the open questions, I will give you a clear yes, but if a conscious provocation is put, then there must be a determined and clear no by the responsible forces in the country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To hold an open debate on values, I say a clear yes, but a conscious degradation of a religion, I say, and all responsible forces, a clear no. There must be no such thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. That's what I agree with!]] To divide society, my Ladies and gentlemen, there can only be a clear no of all those involved. To bring people together, that is, to make politics responsible. I appeal to all parties involved. [[Abg. Strache: That's why you have to face up to words with arguments and not with violence!]] This Austria, this life model Austria, which we have built together in the last decades, I want to do so. I want people in Austria to be able to discuss with each other, but in a way that is in the foreground of the common and not the separating, for those who sow wind will reap storm. I don't want to. [[Abg. Strache: The Federal Government received a few months ago threat of murder!]] I want a peaceful Austria, an Austria where people live together well together.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15380	A speaking time of 5 minutes was agreed for the next round of speakers. Mr Bucher, you will speak next time. As I said, 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15409	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Today, in the course of the debate requested by the BZÖ, we have been able to hear some of the speeches of the Federal Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor, all the state-politically responsible. It has been a lot of responsibility, even in your statements, Mr. Bundeskanzler. I'm just wondering – I'm here in the high house for five years now –: Where was your responsibility in 2000 when you made Austria poor and the sanctions carried out from outside into Austria? Where was your state-political responsibility? [[Abg. Oils: Please be nice! It's got a long tail!]] Where was your political responsibility when it came to creating a future-proof pension solution for Austria? Before the elections, you promised the people in this country, you will reverse the pension reform. Now you are in the government, federal Chancellors and are proud of the hackler rule that you are again extending, but which we have negotiated. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do you remember that the Carinthian Members at that time caused a hackler rule in our country? Where was your political responsibility when it came to reducing taxes to make a tax reform with a volume of €3 billion? Where was your state-political responsibility, Chancellor Gusenbauer? Yeah, she's here now. Suddenly she's here. Yes, for a year everything has been state-political, everything is oversown with responsibility, and you are so proud of this country. Abroad, in Germany, you are promoting a major tax reform that you have rejected here in this House. Say this also, if you are proud of growth in Austria, that we have achieved growth here over 3.2 percent, but not because of the government we have, which I mean is self-critical, because we were also in a government, but because of the ability of the working people in our country and the entrepreneurs and the economy. We owe it to them that we have achieved such a solid growth in recent years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you say so generously, Austria is well there today, then you are certainly right with that. Austria's good at it. And if you argue that Austria is the third-richest country in Europe, then you may be right too, but people don't feel it. They are elected by the people to this function as Federal Chancellor. Well, you have been ordered surprisingly into this function as Federal Chancellor, but what do you say to people when you are addressed to the costs of the last months in the field of food costs, fuel costs, heating costs, in the field of public taxes, in the area of the measures you have to answer in the Federal Government, keyword: Mineral oil tax, healing aid et cetera, prescription fees and whatever? After all, they have expensived and made life difficult for people and not facilitated them! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Where is the “social warmth” that you constantly promote? When you took part in the elections, you promised people tax relief and that people would be better able to participate in the Federal Government. It's not better for people, it's much worse for them. [[Abg. Amon: That might be so in Carinthia!]] And that's what you get to hear when you talk to people. When we go to the street and discuss with the people, they tell us that they don't come out with the money anymore. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you must take this seriously yourself! You have a survey by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, which says that 50 percent of people no longer get their incomes – this is a survey you have made! In other words, people can no longer afford to be entertained. With this government and with the government programme that you have implemented here, you are closing down on the reality of life! There was a SPÖ member of the National Council who once told you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, that you are a changing refrigerator. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who was that?- Oh, my God!]] I'm not going that far, Mr. Federal Chancellor, but I'm telling you: Their social policies come from the deep-frozen rest. People feel that they are a lot worse, they take every chance to somehow get over the rounds. We from BZÖ have presented a very reasonable, structured and well thought-out tax reform programme. And you won't come around to lower taxes. Listen to your officials of the ÖGB, the national leaders and the Pensionist Association! Everyone's calling for a tax reduction! Finally carry out a tax reduction and don't constantly scatter the people's eyes to the sand! – Well, when you play sand, you know about yourself, Mr. Federal Chancellor, but please finally start to lower taxes and take tax measures so that people can finally feel this in their wallets instead of thinking about it and arguing about it for two years – and in the end nothing will come out! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15509	Mrs Mag. Lap. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15533	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the colleague Bucher you can only say that he apparently sleeps in Carinthia his winter sleep, and the BZÖ can be said: Adieu BZÖ! I can accurately predict that you will be taking part in exactly two special sessions during this legislative period – and then it will be over with you. [[Abg. Scheibner: After all, you stay!]] I am also referring to the direct comparison. Ambulance fees, accident pension taxes, pension robbery, that was the government contribution of BZÖ! – On the other hand, there is politics with social manuscript, ladies and gentlemen, in the government of the Social Democratic Party. [[Call BZÖ: If we didn't have you!]] Pensions have been raised exorbitantly, the prescription fees cover, there is a solution in the care – and the labour market is going upward. This comparison, ladies and gentlemen, makes us sure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We always focus on people's concerns. I can still remember that when you took this reform of pension robbery, a colleague from the BZÖ came to us in a petition for social democrats and begged us to help us to change something else. On the topic of heating aid, you said in the government at the time: People already have enough to heat and temperatures are not so low anyway; people should see where they stay. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who said that?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The BZÖ has tried here today to show social profile, but the people who sit in front of the television screens or walk around the streets of Austria know exactly what they have to keep from you. [[Call the FPÖ: They've already turned off!]] The people in Austria also know that the Social Democrats are in favour of a social handwriting policy, and that the terms “social”, “righteous” and “safe” are on the agenda for social democracy. [[Abg. "Eder-Tausender"!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with you it was the robbery of pensions, on the other hand, there is the extension of the long-term insurance scheme and that the sick days are also calculated. [[Abg. Scheibner: You were against it too!]] This is another very important social policy step, which means that people are at the centre of our attention. We continue with social, just and safe – also on the pension issue. Let us come to the topic of care and care, ladies and gentlemen. We're taking new ways. For years it was an open secret that there are many illegal nurses in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government, which has been in office for a year, has accepted this issue with Minister of Social Affairs Buchinger and Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein and has worked intensively on a legal regime. Home care must be of security, for the people who care, and for the people who need the care. We put a package on the table and have established a basis for this in very long and very intensive negotiations. But, ladies and gentlemen, this applies not only to more than 300,000 people in Austria who receive care money, but to those people who have a 24-hour care at home. For the first time, we have managed to have an agreement in Austria in the field of care and care services between the federal government and countries. This agreement is a very big step, because until now the federal states are responsible for what is there in the field of care. Ladies and gentlemen! These first steps in the field of care are a very, very important offer. I work on behalf of the Vienna Social Services and I know a lot of home help and a lot of qualified sick people. We offer senior housing communities, the contact visit service and home help. It is really very important, ladies and gentlemen, to continue to devote themselves to the topic of care. In this government, we have the guarantee that this issue will not be lost sight of, but that solutions will be created for the needs of people, and these solutions can be further worked out. These solutions are social, fair and secure. This is possible in a social democratic federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15645	Mr Dr. Stummvoll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15666	Madam President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I join those previous speakers who thanked the BZÖ for this special meeting. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Enjoy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] I would also like to thank the ORF for its direct transmission, as the ladies and gentlemen, television viewers can make a beautiful picture of the difference between government and opposition policy. Government policy means taking responsibility, addressing hot iron, tackling future problems, getting together in the areas of care and long-term financing of pensions. – On the other hand, opposition policy means: If the results are on the table, to criticize everything, to make things worse and to know everything better, ladies and gentlemen. This is the difference between government policy and opposition policy. [[Abg. Oils: Do you want to abolish the opposition?]] Thank you for this clear picture that this debate has already resulted. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler, I have looked through your motion for a resolution very carefully. It says ten times, you know everything better, you have the solution. – But politics is not that simple. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, not even yours!]] I say quite frankly, this is also very well seen by the word “social cold”, which has fallen so often today. When the SPÖ, today’s government party, was still in opposition, “social cold” was its main accusation to black, blue and orange. Now blue and orange are in the opposition and the SPÖ in the government, and now blue and orange accuse the government of “social cold”. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions, obviously the “social cold” keyword is an essential part of any opposition rhetoric! This is the only explanation that the opposition speaks of “social cold” over and over again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Buying power worse than 15 years ago!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Strache! I am one of those who like to discuss data and facts. But I would also like to say: Let's leave the church in the village! I would like to highlight three areas that concern the basic needs of the people: first growth and employment as the basis for jobs, income and social security; second health care; third security. These are three areas that reflect the most basic needs of the population. Growth and employment: We have higher economic growth in Austria than in the EU countries. Germany will have a third lower economic growth next year. We have 50 000 full-time jobs more than a year ago. For almost two years now, we have a constantly declining unemployment rate. Austria is one of the EU countries with the best labour market data. Every unemployed person is too much, not even a question, but as regards youth, long-term and total unemployment, Austria is better off than the large majority of all EU countries. This is a good success not only for this Federal Government – as honest as it is – but also for the years 2000 to 2007, when economic packages, growth laws and tax reliefs laid the basis for us today – after a year with the current Federal Government – to be proud of this current account. To the area of health. – Yes, it is right, there are financing problems of the health insurance companies and we will have to get together there – but let us also leave the church in the village. It was only recently that – to read in the “Kurier” of the 2nd century. October 2007 – a study in Sweden: In all EU countries, Austria has best cut off the quality of health care. In the “Kurier” it was to be read that Austria has the “gold medal”. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: Let's also leave the church in the village! Now on the subject of security. Recently, there was a study by the prestigious Institute IMD, the Institute for Management Development in Lausanne. Result: Among 55 countries under investigation, Austria is, so to speak, world champion in the field of security. It was only recently, ladies and gentlemen, that there was a question of opinion: Minister Platter is the Minister of Security! – Congratulations, Minister Platter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The clear line and clear policy of Mr Platter has also led to Austria being one of the best countries in terms of safety in recent months. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] The next keyword of the opposition: ‘Highest level of tax burden.’ [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Data and facts also include: In 2001, the tax and tax rate was 44.8%, and today it is 41.6%. The difference in figures: 7 billion € annually less taxes! We have achieved that 45 percent of all wage and income taxpayers no longer pay wage and income tax at all. [[Abg. Strache: Nevertheless record revenue!]] That's why again: Let's leave the church in the village! The country is good on the road. In any case, we would be happy if you would like to make concrete, constructive requests to agree to them from the opposition – that is, beyond keywords. As chairman of the Financial Committee, I say: If you are submitting requests for tax reform, with funding proposals, I am of course willing to discuss them. We'd like to record this ball. In conclusion, however: Let's leave the church in the village, because our country is good on the road!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15807	Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15828	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, Mr Stummvoll has now made it clear in a refreshing light what he thinks of a third of the Members here in the House: In his opinion, they are actually unnecessary; Opposition is not desirable, they have nothing to contribute anyway, except to find everything bad! – So, I think, the Austrian population does not imagine the Austrian Parliament – and it does not work that way. On the contrary! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The ladies and gentlemen of the government are so united here today, but now this unity is breaking up again. [[The speaker briefly turned to the government bank]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I think you would be well advised to think about the dispute in this government and to consider the proposals that come from a quarter of the Members here in the house here, here and there a little more seriously and also a little more seriously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] So it is with social policy and also with regard to social justice: The cardinal error, which, in my view, many of the EIA's politicians make in particular, is to represent the overall economic indicators and to say: If the economy is going well, we are all well! but we are completely hiding essential factors, namely: How is economic prosperity actually distributed? Who benefits from it? We are already here with very different and very exciting questions. I believe that in 2008, it is up to a government to consider innovative social policy, innovative environmental policy and, of course, to ask itself the question of funding. But you will not get along with such floskels as “Let’s let the church in the village!” but you have to look at the problems that exist in Austria, and these are: Austria is developing into a two-class society in some areas. There are people in Austria who can no longer live from their labour income. A whole generation of young people no longer work in fixed working and employee conditions. These young people live in work contract relationships, in precarious employment conditions – and now half of all women in Austria work part-time. I think these working conditions are extremely good for improvement and I do not think they are satisfactory and I do not think that there is time for singing praises. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Distribution questions are obviously not gladly addressed by you. I had to smile from time to time, when I was listening to the speakers from the BZÖ today, but also some of the FPÖ, who were part of the government from the year 2000 onwards and showed how to redistribute, which is to be redistributed from the bottom to the top. This has been extremely obvious since 2000: They have implemented a tax reform, a significant tax relief for large stock companies. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (passing by the speaker's desk) You have a charming smile!]] The smallest taxpayers or those who do not pay any taxes have not benefited at all, and women in particular have not benefited from this at all! Young people in precarious employment have not benefited at all! But that's exactly that group of people who need support. The germ of poverty was laid down in 2000 and in the following years, through a completely missing economic and social policy, which was exclusively redistributed from the bottom to the top. You can't deny that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The great accusation that the SPÖ is to make is that, when it was in the opposition, it awakened very high expectations, made very great promises and lots of things even to the blood. I remember very well when the then SP Finance and Budget Spokesman – now State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance – struck this tax reform: the group tax, the privilege for multinational corporations, write down losses abroad. – That was completely finished with the entry of SPÖ into the government. I have never heard anything from Mr Matznetter about these issues of tax and distribution policy. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If a German chancellor has been producing here for a year now and speaking of “social warmth”, he must also have the accusation or the question of which groups he is actually working for. I noticed this today in the picture of the government here: The SPÖ Chancellor is surrounded by ÖVP politicians, on each side two. This is also a picture of what the government's policy looks like: A SPÖ Federal Chancellor surrounded by ÖVP politicians; ÖVP economic and social policy, ÖVP migration policy, ÖVP environmental policy. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] You have not succeeded in setting accents on social justice and redistribution policy! That's the sad record on that day. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the SPÖ does not succeed in delivering one of these great election promises, namely to create more social warmth in Austria, it will pay the token in 2010. We must and will at least accept these issues more and more by the Greens, as it simply cannot be accepted that a large part of the Austrian population – and there are also many people in Austria who do not have Austrian citizenship – is threatened with poverty and no longer has a share in the profits of prosperity. Dear Chancellor Gusenbauer, to abolish the inheritance tax and gift tax, this would have been done by Schwarz-Blau. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Instead of reading children's books, I recommend the doll theatre mashek. That's because the chief doll says to the Gusenbauer doll: You're supposed to be one of your constituencies at last! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15957	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15978	Mr President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is actually contrary to me to address this issue, but previously Mr Klubobmann's question was: Well, if anything happens in Austria, then Mrs. Winter also owes it! – I reject this completely, absolutely firmly – and I think it is a complete nonsense, because here cause and effect are confused! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can discuss the fact that you did not like this statement – that is all right, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel – but one argument must follow another argument – and no threat, no violence, no murder threat at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] There we need the shoulder closure that you can and can say your opinion in Austria. So far, this has been the case in Austria – and this should remain the case in the future. [[Calls to the Greens.]] If someone has a different opinion, you should be allowed to discuss it. That's very, very essential. I would also like to say one thing, ladies and gentlemen: Above all, the ÖVP plays wrong, because the head is put in the sand. There we do not have the “pater Willi”, but there we have a political Pharisee, in many ways, also on the subject of care. It was said before the National Council election: There is no care problem in Austria! – Until then it has been assumed that illegal care has happened even in the family of the former head of government. Then it was clear there was a care problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's why, my. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on this subject now, because this is what interests people, since there are many who are affected by the need for care. Mr. Deputy stupidly criticised the opposition as being “social cold” over and over again. – Nonsense, for you have accused Minister Buchinger of social cold, x-time! That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the climate in this government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What did you do? – Working groups have been set up: a working group with Mrs Klasnich – I do not know a result – working groups in the government – I do not know the result. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: It's called Klasnic!]] Where is the solution to the problem? I have to tell you that you are working according to the motto “the rapid standstill”: There is great business, much is done, but there is no satisfactory result. You have a two-thirds majority, you have it in your hand to actually solve this problem – but it is not solved. Here is the opposition will to contribute constructively. We all, all the opposition parties, have made many, many applications aimed at solving this problem in the interests of those concerned. But what happened? – Red and black disputed. There was no solution. We must now, with a two-thirds majority, adopt a Constitutional Act in order not to punish people in addition. There would be a way to find a solution here: When we talk about self-employed care and care, there is a great administrative burden for those affected. You're going to be a businessman. That is to say, you have to report the person, you have to do a time check, you have to find a holiday replacement, or if someone gets sick, find someone who takes care of the care. Many can't. Therefore, our proposal is that we set up a Federal Association for Care, where the caregiver can join as a cooperative, where he can appoint his care or care person, and all administrative activities that are necessary can be carried out on a timely and correct basis. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But benevolent!]] Useful, without profit-making. This could reduce the burden on those concerned, which would be quite, very important. One could also carry out quality control, which is necessary, and one could also continue to force with the AMS training and training of the care and care staff. This would be a way to make care and care in Austria easier for many people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Three things are important to us in this context: The solution must be legal, it must be practicable and it must be practical. It may not be that a caregiver may eat and cook, but the caregiver may not give the food. That's where we need a solution. We, the opposition parties, are very willing to work together with the Federal Government on this important matter for Austria. I ask you – I know you cannot decide on this request today; this is just so common that it is rejected –: Look at this! Perhaps this would be a way to make life easier for people in Austria. I put this request herewith: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like your support here.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16109	Mr Van den Broek, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16188	Next, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Buchinger, will speak. I'll set the clock to the agreed 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16209	Thank you very much, Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen, guests on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! They were together with us today to witness a non-insignificant effort of the BZÖ, presented in a request, presented in several speeches, an effort worthy of respect, namely to build a Potemkin village called “social cold”, against which one argues with great rhetoric but with limited security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, it is true that if it is true that the last government had difficulties, among other things, because of a lack of success in social policy, then you, ladies and gentlemen in particular, have been elected from the BZÖ, because you have led the Social Ministry in recent years. [[Abg. Scheibner:... you will be selected!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's coming!]] In reality, we have a different form of criticism to take much more seriously, and we are also dealing with it, for example – you may not have read it, but I am Salzburger –: The “Salzburger Nachrichten” of Monday this week does not accuse this government of social cold, but they write – I quote –: “Since the current government began a year ago, five new social benefits have been invented, i.e. five steps towards an even more expensive state: minimum security, care promotion, cover of recipe fees, free charge for newborns and the extension of the hacker scheme.” I reject the “Salzburger Nachrichten” that this list is incomplete. There are a number of other social benefits that we have introduced this year because people need these social benefits! But in terms of content, the economy in our country is going well – the government has done a lot for it – and our task is that this well-being of the economy, this more prosperity also comes to people, because we want the economy to be well, but we also want it to be good for people. Therefore, our priority catalogue is the following: We design politics with social manuscript! And the care and care sector is a good example. Yes, it's right, in the area of 24-hour care, a lot has been argued in the last two months – and if you ask me: too much disputed. I myself have not always had to suffer with great enthusiasm. [[Intrusion and ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Schelling.]] [[Abg. Strache: Were you not a participant?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, on Friday at the Council of Ministers or during the preliminary meeting, there was a good, very, very good solution, because there were two areas of problem: the extension of the amnesty which the government partner called for. With this, I had the problem that, following all the experiences of the second half of 2007, a renewal of the amelioration will result in legalisation and the application being hindered and also hindered. In fact, however, there has been an uncertainty among people who have also done little of legalisation because they did not know exactly: What will follow? We have found a good solution, which meets both demands: which creates people's security, fears and concerns, while at the same time ensuring that more people adopt this legalised model than in the weeks and months before. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that today we have exceeded the limit of 1,000 legalizations in the area of 24-hour care. And this process continues, and in the individual district authorities, additional employees are even recruited to cope with these applications. We therefore have in front of us – today the adoption of an initiative proposal, decision-making over the next few weeks – a real legislative acceleration law that takes people’s concerns and needs, and this is an excellent news, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the last week, we decided to make another important and urgent improvement together politically: that we extend the circle of activities in the field of 24-hour care towards support in the hygiene of the body and in the consumption of food and liquids – because this is practical, because people need it: that the activity that has now been carried out can be carried on only legally, quality-secured and manageable. This was a great success of the new Federal Government, which the Minister of Health will also complete with a corresponding law. Here, in fact, politics is recognizable with social manuscript! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, as you are critically addressing the subject of wealth and wealth exploitation here in connection with the care and care, I would like to point out the following: A few days ago, Mr Schaunig, in Carinthia, made a request to the state government to waive family care costs. It was your government colleagues in Carinthia, your colleagues in the country day in Carinthia, who have prevented a positive decision on this! You have at least relativized your ideas of seeking support for caregivers. I come to a second subject, where politics is recognizable with social manuscript, ladies and gentlemen, This is the problem of a strong poverty still existing in Austria. This is actually a problem: Over the last few years, there have been relatively constant about one million poor people at risk of poverty. This is not only a problem in Graz, but also in other cities and in Austria as a whole. If one million people are at risk of poverty in Austria, in the fourth-richest country of the European Union, this is not a shame to the poor, as the Federal Chancellor has already done, but a shame to society. We will not be really rich until we firmly combat this poverty. The new Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, is doing this in three ways: with a forced full-time employment policy – more jobs, of which 50 000 full-time jobs last year! – it does so with better work – well-paid work, minimum wage policy, social security work, inclusion of free workers in full social security, in employee care and also in the entire area of unemployment insurance – and we do so with an ambitious model of minimum safety, which is to start in 2009 and will bring 100 000 people in that country not only an increase in transfers, but above all the opportunity to get out of poverty through additional offers of the labour market service itself – through their own activity, through their own work – and to manage a self-determined and well-ful life. – This is politics with social manuscript, as we understand it! In the area of pensions, ladies and gentlemen, you are quite sure of the comparison, because in the years 2001 to 2005, when the ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ were responsible for pension policy, gross pensions in Austria fell on average by 5.4 percent. If these pensions had been adjusted according to the rate of inflation, these people would have been able to pay an amount of €2.5 billion more to pension benefits over these years. [[Call the BZÖ: Don't vote!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, have saved €2.5 billion from pensioners between 2001 and 2005. [[Abg. Scheibner shakes his head no more.]] We correct this with a good pension increase, because that is politics with social manuscript! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16325	Mrs Haubner's next speech. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16346	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! Mr Buchinger, you have said that we have made great efforts to make a request here. I say the effort has paid off, because: This package, which we present here, contains visions, contains real answers to the concerns and concerns of people, and it is above all a package not only under the title “We know better”, but also: “We’re doing better too”! - That's for introduction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today I have heard a lot about fairness, justice and social manuscript. These are words that are especially suitable for politicians in Sunday's speeches. Only: We must look at reality, reality among people, the question of how and where these achievements arrive. And then reality just looks different, and it's hard for you to find positive. The social warmth is not as noticeable as you might believe here in the hall and how you want it to be. Example care: This “swimming over” action ensures confusion and uncertainty to this day, and it is simply not fair and fair. Why, I ask – and that is not fair! – is there not a right to promotion? Why is the promotion to this day a act of grace – when we consider that almost 90 percent of the caregivers are cared for at home and used in about 10 percent of public funds? Why is there still a different level of care promotion – on the one hand self-employed, on the other hand employees? Why do you first have to be poor to get a promotion, according to the motto: Whoever saves, he's going to be trashed!Unknown term type: "%s".? And why is it up to this day – and I really ask you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, because that was one of your most central election promises: when the SPÖ comes to the government, the care money will be increased – the care money will not be increased? – This is a gross social failure! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] An accusation that I must address to the entire government concerns coordination and the common procedure: Now, in the last minute, you've noticed that caregivers are not allowed to perform certain work, and now you're saying we're going to implement or plan professional changes. – You would have had enough time to do this in recent months! That is why we say from the BZÖ that it is a legal, yes, a manageable solution – but the solution expertise you have shown here makes bad guys expect for an overall model as well. A second area: pensions. I am pleased, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, that you have, as it were, become a Paul from Saul: on the one hand, because you so highly praised the hackler rule, the hackler rule, which was born by the employees of the BZÖ at the time as an idea and which was introduced by us in the government at the time. I think it is positive if we approach the BZÖ's demand in a different way, that 45 years are enough and that the hackler rule should be introduced without limit. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am also pleased that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, praise the legal adjustment of pensions. I remember when you spoke here in this House about this question in a different way. I believe that the legal adjustment of the minimum pensions – and in the end there is no jubilation – with 1.7 percent is something you should think about. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] At the end of the day, I can tell you a real-life example of a pensioner who writes to me that he wants to show me his reality of the high-lying pension increase. Quote: As a married single parent, I receive a monthly pension of € 26.22 or 36 cents per day from January 2008 onwards. I can’t even buy a “Kronen Zeitung” and not even a sausage cream.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16432	Mr President, your speaking time is now really more than finished. [[Abg. Haubner: So I finished with a practical example!]] [[In the case of BZÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. Ursula Haubner.]] The next speaker is Mr Krainer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16469	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's discussion is really exciting because the BZÖ here acts as if it had somehow forgotten what has been in recent years. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, on the contrary! We want to remember that!]] If the BZÖ here is spoken of as a social cold, do we have to look at what the policy of the previous federal government was and what politics looks like today Has the previous government ever increased aid to students? - Not even once. [[Abg. Dolinschek: The Leikam has said that the Federal Chancellor is a “changing refrigerator”!]] The new Federal Government will be 15 percent in the first year! Does the previous government ever have the study aid that increases scholarships? - Not even once. The SPÖ-led government makes a policy with social manuscript and increases it by 12 percent in the first year! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It can be said in this direction that, for example, with the ecologicalisation of the mineral oil tax, the shuttle fee was also increased and, for the first time, it was designed so much that even the small income recipients – for the first time! – get a penalty by almost doubling the negative tax. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that's not going to happen!]] – One simply sees this, the row after, month by month, week by week, how politics looks with a social manuscript – and not what a social cold policy looks like, as the previous German government has done. [[Abg. Murauer: Well, well!]] This brings us to one of the most important issues of this year's tax reform. To this end, the BZÖ has today put forward a proposal to change taxes: You said on average everyone should pay by €700 less. – On average, that may be true, only: If you, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, go shopping for “Billa”, you will have 4 000 € more in your bag and the “Billa” cashier has zero € up to a maximum of 160 € per year more in your bag. And that's where I'm asking: Is that social? - No, I'm sure not! That is why we reject this proposal. He is not quite as bold as other proposals that we have heard, for example from the Federal Minister of Finance, who wanted to be in his pocket at €14 000 more – and the “Billa”-caser no longer for euro – but it is not what we imagine under social or just policies. That is why we say that the tax reform must primarily benefit and focus on those who have small incomes that had nothing from the last tax reform – which only had to swallow all the increases that only had to swallow the price increase and had nothing to do with the last tax reform, namely, zero – and also those involved in medium-sized incomes, the medium-sized, the service providers in this society, but certainly not the top 5 percent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That the lower income..., that's not to mention!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 2.5 million don't pay any tax at all!]] The tax reform must not only be social, but must also be fair. [[Abg. Murauer: And what's just, you say?]] We need to look at what types of income there are and how different these are treated. As someone in the year can earn €50,000 by share speculation, a second earns €50,000 a year through interest income, a third person earns €50,000 a year by renting or renting, and a fourth earns €50,000 a year because he goes to work. If I look at how these four same incomes are taxed differently, this goes from 0 percent to more than 43 percent. And I'm sure that's not fair. It is therefore essential that the tax reform removes these injustices that exist in the tax system. It is clear that we will not be able to eliminate everyone from today to tomorrow, but we must make a big step towards greater justice within our tax system, between the different types of incomes. The third thing I consider very essential is that the tax reform is not only social and fair, but also safe, and that it does not call into question the financing capacity of the state into question, that it is not the case that, before a choice, one makes a tax reform, where people are practically given a sugar, and after the election, a savings package. It must also be safe in that the State has enough money to carry out its tasks even after the tax reform for the areas for which we need money, namely in the field of education, in the social field, in the health sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16602	Ladies and gentlemen, as the Stenographical Protocol is now before me, I shall give to honourable Members. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The next item is the speech by Mr Amon. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16630	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I had a little impression today, especially at the beginning of the debate, that colleagues Cap and Westenthal had exchanged their early summer 2005 speeches. It was quite interesting to hear how former government parties have now given a wave of attack with rhetorical rounds towards “social cold”, while the current government partner is now talking about the sudden outbreak of social warmth in the country. I have tried several times in social policy debates to present a little bit too that the truth is not only a daughter of time, as we have known for some time now, but that the truth is very often in the middle. All in all, I believe that, like the previous governments, this federal government will bring about one thing, namely to create and ensure social balance and social balance in the country, which will actually allow for a good common relationship and a life in dignity for those who do not have it so well. I believe that this consensus should basically be able to agree here in the house. It is also wrong when it is said that in the years 2001 to 2006, the pensions have not been increased. That's wrong! Every year the pensions have been increased. In contrast – and this can be compared again and again – to the Federal Republic of Germany, where a red-green government was at work: For seven years, Mr Cap, there has been no pension increase here. In Austria, the opposite was the case, and that is to be said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There will also be a corresponding pension increase in this year. We have defined in the Government Convention a number of social policy measures that we jointly carry, such as the introduction of the minimum wage, also as a programme to combat those cases where people with income simply cannot get through because it is just below a certain limit. We have agreed – I can say that I have invented the term in the government negotiations – a minimum guarantee based on needs, because we have said that there cannot be an unemployment income in the long term, but that there must be a minimum guarantee for people who are in a difficult situation as bridging aid, and that is a sensible measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now on the main topic of care. Mrs Haubner, I should like to remind you, of course, as a Minister of Social Affairs, you would have had the opportunity to address this issue. You didn't pick it up. To make the government the accusation that it is dealing with the issue is not quite fair in this way. This is a complex subject, which is a difficult subject to look at very carefully. It is necessary to look very closely at the situation of those concerned. I would also like to pay tribute to my colleague Csörgits, who made the proposal before Christmas to extend the amnesty – Mr Social Minister, you were opposed before Christmas to doing so – in the form of preventing the recovery of social security contributions. Mrs Csörgits, you proposed this before Christmas. I supported this. Unfortunately, we did not pass the Social Minister. I am pleased, Federal Minister, that a joint effort in the Federal Government has now succeeded in extending this amnesty by another half-year. This gives people legal certainty, and it helps them in this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16699	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. They also have a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16720	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! First of all, a few words on the comments made by my colleague. Mr President, I should like to say a few words about the opposition about half an hour ago, and I think it would be better for you to have a parliament without opposition. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I didn't say that!]] Even if you are socialized in the Lower Austrian ÖVP, where this is obviously a peculiarity that one cannot really deal well with opposition, I note that it is part of a functioning democracy that the opposition expresses itself accordingly – and that the country does not belong to the ÖVP: neither Lower Austria nor Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I just said you know everything better!]] But now for the current debate. Mr Molterer, Vice-Chancellor, first said that something had to be achieved before something was distributed. – Yes, but the question is: How long does something have to be achieved before the government starts to distribute something? We have had an increase in prosperity in Austria for many years. That is completely undisputed. For at least as many years, at least since the 1980s, we have had a dispersal of poverty and wealth, at quite different levels. Income from property, for example – if we are already talking about unemployed income, for example, the income from property de facto is an unemployed income – is extremely increasing compared to what is generated in income, i.e. income from work. This is once a sheer, which is becoming more and more apart. A second pair is the one that continues to disperse within the income of labour, namely, the difference between those who earn a lot, a multiple of those who have little, and those who have very little and can no longer live by their incomes, especially at the expense of women. A third level, where the shear is divided, is the distribution of property or capital in itself, where, for example, the issue of inheritance is concerned. That is, because of the importance of inheritance in the Austrian system and also because of the low taxation of inheritances, the sheer is increasingly disparate here too. The trend has been stronger since 2000. And now you don't tell me by the SPÖ that you're going to turn this around, because the first thing you do is, together with the ÖVP, to abolish the inheritance tax and the gift tax! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's right, absolutely right!]] That is to say, the small part that has so far been demanded of this asset will be forgotten again. They say no, they don't need to pay anything, they don't need to pay a tax, nothing, we don't care, the sheer should keep going apart. – This is the so-called social policy of the SPÖ, which you decide with the ÖVP here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The following, since it was also about care today. Mr Buchinger, in the beginning of January, to define the unword of the year here is already an achievement: Legalisation accelerator law, as you have now mentioned the template for the care. So this is really an anachronism of the special class in a parliament that decides laws. This is completely misleading that this is only about 5 percent of the cases we are talking about here, and that you do not care about the framework conditions for all other people who need to be cared for beyond 5 percent, i.e. 95 percent of those who do not care about improving the conditions for this 95 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16802	Next, Mr Vilimsky. He also has a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16823	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My dear, and above all many, many, many ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The government bank in the Second Republic has never been as large as it is at present. This is almost a “small state” in the state that has established itself there. If I can help you with the name search maybe a little: It could be called “Sand chestnuts” or “Absurdistans” – or whatever. The fact is that this cinemascope width, which this federal government is expressing here, is no longer transferable, even if the ORF strives fairly. There is also no more 16:9 format, since you already have to invent a new video format in order to bring this hugely bloated, large federal government to the citizen some way, at least visually, closer, because content no longer succeeds. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In terms of content, this government has been very, very far away from the real concerns of the population. Now I have calculated how much this very, very long row costs behind me, and I have come to an approximate sum of half a million euros a month that this Federal Government is proposing for itself. And the only thing you hear from this federal government is fight, war, denk. But you also hear other things, you hear, for example, that there are new impulses in the area of fernsbread recipes or who can be cut like the hair or who can be separated from whom and who has just entered a new season with whom. That's too little for the sum you're costing here in the month! You finally have to ensure an appropriate government policy and ensure professional government management – instead of getting the lemon of the year for your activity here as in an Oscar award! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Against the background of the current discussion, it was really very amusing to hear the Clubobmann Cap here. I have to say, it was rhetorical a wonderful thing. If you were a vacuum cleaner seller and not a SPÖ clubman, I'd buy you one. You made this wonderful. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I'll suck you up!]] [[Abg. Riepl: Would you also use it or buy it?]] You have rightly mentioned Klubobmann Scheibner, who could have been a museum director today, but the same clock mistake, the same time error that the BZÖ has, you also have you are a year no longer in the government, and you've been in the government for a year. [[Abg. Street: The BZÖ in the government is the SPÖ!]] You seem to be both subject to the same problem. But what happened in the year you're in the government? [[Abg. Riepl: A lot!]] I should like to remind you, for example, in the decision of the SPÖ Federal Bureau, that there is little in the balance sheet. There's cap rhetoric in there, but there's nothing in it. What about the decision of the Federal Party Presidency of SPÖ, by Mr Bundeskanzler, then opposition leader? 500 € a year should have saved everyone after a tax reform. What happened? – Nothing has happened! But I am not holding back the Eurofighters and the tuition fees. The voters are running away from you, the sections are emptying. That's your problem you need to deal with. But if you criticize the BZÖ here, I'll tell you: In fact, they from SPÖ are a new form of BZÖ today, because nothing has changed at the course last year. It is this neoliberal course that the ÖVP is driving! – Mr Klubobmann Cuff's gonna fold your hands right now. That was with you, I think: “Hands fold, keep Gosch’n!” This was a representative of the ÖVP, who was quoted in the “Kurier”. Since the lamb is beginning to flash here, I can put in a motion for a resolution, which would at least have the poorest of the poor a little more to improve. It's about the care fund area: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen,... – Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I would therefore like to thank you for your interest and give the floor to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16939	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17000	I now set the speaking time for the remaining television transmission with 3 minutes per speaker. First speaker in this round is Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17024	Mr Vilimsky, just briefly to you: Be glad that spring is coming soon, because then it's over with winter! – I am not saying any more about your nervous attacks against the BZÖ. Mr. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, you said in your remarks, because of my accusations of the social cold, I live in another country. – That is, you don’t believe in me that there are people in Austria who can’t afford heating, who can’t afford to drive anymore, who are moaning under the burdens you have decided, even in the health system. Okay. If you don't believe me, I quote a citizen who took the chance in the “Kronen Zeitung”, the largest daily newspaper in the country, on 12 May. January 2008 in the largest reader's letter forum in the country to write a letter. He writes here: “One year’s government SPÖ-ÖVP is enough! It is very sad that in the new year, the current government will have nothing to do with it,” because the former government with BZÖ participation has achieved more in a hundred days than today’s government. It writes a citizen I personally don't know. [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the government bank.]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You can also laugh at the “Kronen Zeitung”, Mr. Bundeskanzler, you can make the reader forum contemptible. This citizen continues to write – and I will inform you because you do not seem to have read it: “Mr. Federal Chancellor, I beg you to step back with your team – it doesn’t make sense for our country that only burdens are coming or are already there!” We citizens soon do not know each other, and neither can we afford anything. This is not only what I see as a citizen, but also many of my fellow citizens. Mr Gusenbauer, if you think I live in the wrong country, because I criticize you making social burdens, that you are cold, that you have forgotten people, just so that you can play a few years of federal chancellors, then take at least the letters and the concerns of the citizens in the daily newspapers seriously! Otherwise, I have to blame you for still living in your sand box and not knowing what's really going on in this country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also a quote for colleagues from the ÖVP. Do you know who advertised the following in the newspapers?: Balance after one year of German chancellor Gusenbauer: One radiates – and man pays. Nothing's gotten better, it's all more expensive! Mr. Klubobmann's bowl, who's that from? – The ÖVP has advertised this, the coalition partner of SPÖ, in all the daily newspapers. You advertise from the ÖVP, it's all got more expensive, it's gotten all worse, and once again attack, right, as I mean, the ice-cold Federal Chancellor sitting behind me like a refrigerator. You can't go out there and say it's all right! I think it was right to put this issue on the agenda today. I would also like to thank the other parties for the importance of this special meeting today. It is an essential contribution of the BZÖ. And I can only tell you one thing: You will be presented your account at the next elections, including for your superiority, Dr. Gusenbauer, that you do not want people to actually suffer from your burdens, including crime after the opening of the Schengen border! They have said pregnancies at the border, people will no longer remember where the border was in a few years. – People don’t remember where their car and where their apartment is anymore. And next Sunday, Grazers will have the first chance to miss you a monument and punish you with red and black. And we hope for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17106	Mrs Csörgits is next spoken. Also 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17128	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I think this federal government has shown from the first day that you are very important to people, because this federal government has done everything it can to re-establish jobs in this country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The ÖVP advertises against your government, against the chancellor!]] Mr Westenthaler, what happened when you were in the Federal Government? You weren't in the Federal Government, but your party. First of all, this Federal Government has made sure that there are more jobs and, above all, more full-time jobs in this country. And this federal government has also made it clear that those people who, for whatever reason, have left the work process for a long time have a supply by means of a need-oriented minimum guarantee. At the same time, the need-oriented minimum security will provide opportunities to facilitate the return to the work process. So this Federal Government has done great things, especially for the workers in this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should also like to remind you, Mr Westenthaler, that, when the BZÖ was in the Federal Government, the proportion of free staff rose very much, this has been so throughout Europe. But your party, and above all the Social Minister or the Social Minister who came from your party, has made no contribution to ensuring that these people are also insured. We have assured free employees of social security. This is a social policy milestone, very much appreciated ladies and gentlemen! No one needs to be afraid now that if he's sick and has a form of employment, he won't get any sickness benefit. You missed it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have also put a very special emphasis on the situation of young people in this country. A youth employment pact has been concluded together with the social partners. In the future, young people will have the opportunity to attend either a secondary school or to complete a training in a firm or a teaching workshop. This is important because the youth is our future. And, ladies and gentlemen, we have also promoted a new women's policy, we have simply taken care of it, and together we will continue to ensure that the income scarves are closed, that women also get more in leadership. I would like to say with joy – and this is particularly important for my own party – that we are setting 40 per cent women in our party in the National Council today after the fishing visit of our colleague Lueger, which is 26, a number of members you can only dream of from the BZÖ, because you only have 7 per cent and the trend is simply falling. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this new federal government has done great things. It is quite clear that there is a social manuscript here. Austria has become safer, Austria has become social. We will continue to do so in the future. And I invite everyone to support us. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17183	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17205	Mr President. High house! Yeah, it's good to take stock. Today is the Day of Truth. What is the care scheme worth? What brings the new freedom of punishment? – It brings security to people in need. That alone was the wish of the ÖVP, which was the wish of the large pensioners and seniors associations. This goal has been achieved. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Whoever does not know exactly what is happening to him in the 24-hour care now, quite specifically: Anyone who registers nurses or caregivers by the end of June has nothing to fear. No one needs to be afraid of punishment, neither the caretakers nor the caretakers, and that is an essential progress. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the offer of the Federal Government is favourable. On the one hand, no repayments, from any authority – not from social security, not from the financial office or from a labour-law point of view – are likely, on the other hand, to: People affected gain time to inform themselves. Shortly before Christmas, the telephones were hot in the Senior Federation, eighty-nine-year-olds, completely desperate, who did not know if they could still afford their caretakers in January, whether their caretakers were coming in January at all. Now people have time to inform themselves in peace. Heart instead of hardness: in the interests of the needy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The following are still: Just ten weeks ago, I said here at this point: If you want to take care of your own four walls, we want to make them possible. The People's Party therefore calls for the extension of the Amnesty Scheme. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, I was quite alone with this wish. I am all the more pleased today that there is a broad majority in favour of freedom of punishment. Respect for this joint effort! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Many spectators will now also ask themselves: Can I afford legal guardians at all? – The support models, ladies and gentlemen, are on the right track. As a low Austrian, I am particularly pleased: Lower Austria has the highest promotions, there is no limit on wealth, and anyone who needs it comes with support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Because of the SPÖ! You know that!]] Care in their own four walls is supposed to be possible. That's what we stand for, and that's what we're committed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17278	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Also 3 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17300	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Many speakers have addressed poverty, social and economic policies, for example Graz, even concretely, some even environmental policy. Look, if you're pulling a summary: So far from the BZÖ proposal, I would like to stress, of course, that the others are not far away, except for the Greens, who basically promises everything, but nowhere is paid. The Greens are the only party in this country, at least at the moment that the Courage has to say, there is nothing to give, but there is something to be redistributed. We have a problem here, we have a structural problem, in economic policy, from me in general, but especially in the tax system. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] But let's leave it. I think this is a bit embarrassing for a social-democratic party, so it comes so flat, but then still gets excited about the BZÖ. We do not expect anything else from them, they are consistent, they do the same displeasure in the opposition as in the government. But it was with the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only: In this way, we will not get out of this client policy, and this forgives what you always call “a chance for the future”. Yeah, that's what it's all about: It is about how the so-called economic location is being promoted at which places, because it is not always the case alone either. And that's where we differ, and we trust to say that, and in the meantime this will probably be heard more and more. Environmental policy: 40,000 people at risk of poverty in Graz. This has something to do with environmental policy. You know why? - We got these fine dust studies. By the way, we have a red environmental council in Graz, now even a red environmental council: Nothing has gone on. But he's only two years old. No sign, okay. But five years of city government in Graz? - Not without it. It is obvious, and that was not only the last study, but there have already been many who suggest and on average let the average life expectancy in Graz be lower by 17 months, i.e. about one and a half years. But this is particularly true of the poor, because it has also been shown that the life expectancy of the lower levels of income or of the persons belonging to them has not increased. You can also understand this in a city like Graz. You can't go there and then always defend the car or anything else, but there is a need for clear action. You don't join me either. The Greens are the only ones who confess to it. And one last. Col. Cap, you know, the king is sitting there, the court fool has a certain role, but you're hopefully the king's adviser. A king who holds a court fool as an advisor has a problem, which is called a management problem, and this problem you are overcoming to the Republic too. That's how you won't be able to defend yourself and solve things. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who is the Hofnarr?]] Well, the cabaretist contributions here are known. But it does not save anyone. The last problem I wanted to address is: The Federal Chancellor left it to the former Chancellor to really find the right words here, but they were not credible. If the FPÖ had had a sufficient number of mandates, you would have made a coalition with them as the second. That's something to warn about, also for Graz.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17348	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17370	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I am grateful to Mr Ollinger for addressing two things. One is the question of whether one dares to say something or whether one does not trust to say something. I say it now at the social policy level: We liberals trust us to say something. We are saying that it is very well – and this is your second word, which you have put into the debate – that it is also a matter of ensuring a rethinking of the distribution mechanism, as we now have it, for the future. And here our model is a well-known one: We say there must be a differentiation between citizens on the one hand and non-citizens on the other. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It cannot be that everyone from the first day he is in this Republic has full access to our social pots. If you continue to pursue this policy, you must not be surprised that everything is clear and empty. I would also like to say one word to Mr Westenthaler: I am pleased that he has today brought in some sort of thing that is quite supportive, since it is a reaction to a really bad social situation in this country – from the beautiful statistics of Mr. Stumblingly, people can't lose anything. But I still remember very well when he was the great fire speaker for the defense of ambulance charges and the accident pension tax, and these were not social-political achievements with God, Mr Westenthaler. You should come in front of your own door! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we are less discussing here today because of you, but because of the collective failure at the social policy level that is taking place behind me. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is sad enough. For those who thought that there was at least some insight about the new year, who thought there was at least a ceasefire – I am not talking about a ceasefire and not at all about a peace conclusion that was announced to us – were again taught a better one today. What is to happen in this climate between the two who stand out here and demand harmony and harmony everywhere, in this climate that we have to experience here? The Murks will go on and nothing else. Unfortunately, this is something you have to fear. We're not happy about it, we'd rather, we could be here. report that you have done something for the Austrians. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the care area is symptomatic of this. I would just like to address a part of this, at the end of the day, of the fact that this federal government is taking action against the caring relatives, the families of the family in a completely unfair manner, namely through the demands of the rulings that come to these relatives. What to do You with that? – You are basically making an attack on the association of the family, although you know very well that without this association, the care system would collapse in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And what do you give these people to “reward ”? – One is taken away by the wealth that they have put aside through a sparing life, and the other you get into the bag with regress claims. Ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the FPÖ, this nonsense has to be done as quickly as possible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now I would wish as a pious New Year wish you could do that, but only the law of the series teaches me something else. We have to assume you won't make it again. Therefore my appeal at least to the remnants of the good conscience in the SPÖ: Put this claim in a first step if you are already unable to carry it out as a majority party in the government, at least in those federal states governed by a SPÖ country leader!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17467	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17528	The next item is Mrs Oberhauser's speech. The Group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17550	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard today, also from Minister of Social Affairs Buchinger, that today we have not submitted an amnesty extension with the application for care, but rather, quite the contrary, a call for the people to report their nursing staff to legalize it. As we have heard today, this has already been successful. However, in order to avoid being completely empty in the field of professional matters and training, it is necessary that we create legal certainty here for the people. In practice, it is now often necessary that caregivers also provide assistance in food and fluid intake as well as physical care. To complete this today, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's meeting requested by the BZÖ has given us the opportunity to show that this Austrian government is a government that focuses on social warmth. This meeting will also end with a good end. We have tried to create legal certainty for those who are caring for, but also for those who are caring for. – I thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17616	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Oberhauser is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17674	Next item is the report by Mr Fichtenbauer. The Group's remaining speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17696	Mr President. High Federal Government! High house! I would like to point out things that affect citizens in the context of care and similar problems in everyday life. Three days ago, I had a hearing before the Labour and Social Court, which was about a care allowance procedure. The municipality of Vienna is staggering in a care case involving a 15-year-old boy who is probably at the stage of a one-year-old who needs to be cared for by his parents around the clock, including all the physical operations that exist only, from stage 4 to stage 3. This is a matter of the municipality of Vienna – red ruled, and the social cold is striking high waves. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – That’s a fact, you don’t need to intercede, I can prove it to you. Experts will be sent to calculate for the minute exactly whether the person to be cared for takes 5 minutes longer or shorter for the operation of the large or small emergency need. – This is the reality that the Social Democratic Party has to answer. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany was sent on 22 February. September 2006 on the valorization of the care allowance said: ‘The care allowance must be increased annually at least at the rate of inflation.’ What is reality? – Something of this project is not to be seen in the least. [[Abg. May. Lap: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you have exchanged your arguments about high-performance things today, you now descend to what the population feels when it really depends on public welfare in this area. It would be high time to fill these vocabularys with life – instead of social cold social warmth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are called upon to do so wherever your governments are going to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17742	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 3 minutes remaining speaking time of the Group. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17764	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! At first, a point that irritates me enormously: An entire session will be turned on or turned off in each speech at least five times the social warmth and the social cold. Please let me say one thing, ladies and gentlemen: Social justice is not to be treated like a thermostat that can be turned on and off. It is not right for you to believe that you can produce them or turn them off with a hand movement. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] This is a complex matter, Mr Westenthaler, and I understand that this is difficult for you to handle, but it should at least be remembered. That's the first point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You raised the ORF fees, even for the little ones!]] The second point: Finally, Mrs Oberhauser, we are now receiving a resolution from the government parties to amend the Health and Hospital Care Act. – Yes, thank you, thank you for coming up. We've been discussing this for a year. Tell us how you want to change it, then maybe we'd be a step further! But not even that is in the comical motion for a resolution, but only the timing, until 1. April is supposed to be changed. What's that supposed to mean? - That's what we know enough. Who knows what a request will be made again, again one of the sluggish applications that we have been facing more and more often in recent weeks. We would like to discuss with you. Finally, I would like to say that this issue has already been raised: In what you will feel for Parliament at the next session, namely a transitional care and care law – in short, it is now only more “care Constitutional Act”, although it should only apply for half a year – there are, of course, points that we have requested from the beginning. Only: That you now, with this strange amnesty solution, namely an amnesty solution to the square, about the people concerned – and there are not only the people involved; yes, they are also affected, we want to protect them too; but there are other people who are affected, and these are the nurses – they also want to pass on to them that they want to take their rights, that is, Mrs Oberhauser, and my very dear ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, too much. Talk to us about a solution as proposed by Mr Mazal, where we can clean it up. But don't talk to us about a solution in which the Constitutional Court – like the President of the Federal Republic of Germany – has to be locked into the Besenkammerl, so to speak, so that the right to what Imagine it below!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17815	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We now come to the votes, and I therefore ask all the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on a pact for a social Austria against Gusenbauer's government of the social cold and for immediate relief instead of record burden. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the establishment of a Federal Association for Care and Care. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, ladies and gentlemen, on the adjustment of the amount of the care allowance to inflation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the abolition of the family rule. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Interlocutory calls at the SPÖ towards the Greens, who also agree to the request.]] – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Amon, Mr Amon, on the amendment of the Health and Hospital Care Act on the activities of caregivers within the meaning of the House Care Act. [[Interlocutory calls at the SPÖ towards FPÖ, which also agree to the request.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. (E 57.) [[17:13:33]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17937	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed were brought in applications 547/A to 560/A. Questions 3264/J to 3316/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 5:14 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The sitting is closed.
