ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e911	The meeting was opened. Deputies Angela Lueger, Mag. Melitta Trunk, Hedwig Wechner, Rainer Wimmer, Dr. Sebastian Eder, Michaela Sburny, Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek, Mag. Brigid Weinzinger, Dr. Gerhard Kurzmannand Lutz Weinzinger. I announce that the Financial Committee has ended its meeting. The agenda for the newly opened meeting of the National Council has already been delivered to the clubs. I will be in accordance with § 13 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure Act will interrupt this meeting indefinitely until the report of the Financial Committee is available. The date of resumption of the meeting will be communicated to the clubs. In addition, I will have the meeting opened 15 minutes before the beginning. I would ask the political groups to make an adaptation to the Rules of Procedure in the meantime. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e995	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. The report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template 682 of the Supplements is now available. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1022	In order to be able to negotiate the report of the Financial Committee 683 of the Supplements, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal of the time-limit for this report to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously decided. The meeting will be held by ORF live by 1 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1054	The Presidential Conference reached the following consensus on the Rules of Procedure for this meeting: The debate time per group is 43 minutes. The meeting was suspended between 1 p.m. and 1/15 p.m. A new Rules of Procedure were adopted for the time of television transmission: Federal Chancellors and Vice-Presidents each 13 minutes, one speaker per group 14 minutes, two members of government per 8 minutes, one speaker per group 8 minutes, one speaker per group 6 minutes and then two rounds per speaker 5 minutes. The speakers' series in the individual debates look as follows: first round: FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP, BZÖ; second round: Greens, ÖVPs, FPÖs, SPÖs, BZÖs and from the third round there will be talks after group strength. The President-in-Office of the Council/Chairman shall, after consultation with the presidents of the club, distribute the remainder of the last round at the same time to the five political groups. Actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast has ended. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously decided. We are now going into the agenda. [[12:46:37]] Agenda Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (682, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a federal law on the strengthening of the interbank market (IBSG) and a federal law on measures to ensure the stability of the financial market (Fiscal Market Stability Act - FinStaG) as well as the ÖIAG Law 2000, the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act and the Federal Finance Act 2008 (683 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1117	We are now discussing the report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template 682 of the Supplements. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First of all, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1144	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The mortgage crisis in the United States of America was the starting point for a global crisis, but it is not only the financial markets. In recent months we have had to deal with the crisis of food prices and also with the crisis of energy prices. I can only point out that a few months ago, the barrel of crude oil is still at $ 145 and is now about $70. These are volatilitys that we have never had to deal with in the past to this extent. It is therefore necessary to see the dimension of the crisis a little more comprehensive than is sometimes done in the discussions today. We have to do with the fact that there has been a very high foreign trade deficit in the US for several decades, that very high deficits are being made and that this creates economic inequalities in the world. We also have the phenomenon that the weights between the raw materials producing countries and the raw materials-using countries have obviously become uneven. We are also dealing with a massive climate crisis in the world. And it also seems that the power-political conditions in the world today are much more disorderly than in the past. Just think of the unresolved crisis cases in Iraq, Afghanistan, the Middle East and many other parts of the world. That is, the crisis is really a global one – and the financial market crisis is part of it. We were faced in Austria and in Europe with the fact that many did not see this financial market crisis because they did not want to believe it. Therefore, the last months have actually passed relatively quietly, and it has been thought that what has begun as a subprime crisis is actually already over in its effect – before it really became dramatic in September and in October of this year. How have we seen this crisis in Europe? – There was no more confidence among the banks and no more liquidity. What was present as a normal business in the financial system has come to an end. And even well-functioning banks have no longer received the funds they needed to lend those loans that house builders need to lend those loans that small and medium-sized enterprises need to invest in the economy and in new projects. There have already been dramatic signals – and in this context it has been shown that the market, if it only regulates itself, does not work, but tends to ruin itself. That is why the question of how to regulate financial markets has been raised in a better way than in the past. – But before you could even ask yourself this question, you had to solve the problem behind it: How can we stop those avalanches that have arrived at unexpected speeds in Europe and also in Austria? In this context, it must also be said that sometimes disappointed expectations cause the negative. The European crisis management, which now works well, was a bit bumpy at the beginning. The meeting of the major European industrialised countries, i.e. the G4, has not resulted in any result, which has resulted in markets being sent to the basement for one more week, so to speak. In the end, however, successful crisis management has begun with the meeting of the representatives of the euro area, who have taken on their shared responsibility – for the first time to this extent. On this occasion I would also like to say: I do not even want to imagine what this crisis would have looked like if we did not have the euro in most of Europe. I would just like to point out that, in addition to the existing difficulties, exchange speculations would probably have been added, as we experienced them at the beginning of the 1990s – and how we are currently experiencing individual countries that do not belong to the euro zone. I refer to what is happening in Hungary This is the case. With all the economic difficulties that Hungary has: Of course, there is also speculation against the Hungarian Forint. In Iceland, the situation is often domesticated by the banking system, but there was also speculation against the Icelandic currency. It is precisely this dramatization, ladies and gentlemen, but fortunately the euro zone has remained one of the most stable world currencies, so to speak, a safe haven for all the economies that belong to the euro zone. What was the problem to be solved in common? – One had to provide the banks with additional liquidity, and it is about strengthening the capital of the banks. Therefore, the Member States of the euro area have agreed on a common action plan, which essentially provides a ‘toolbox’, whereby individual Member States must define precisely what and to what extent they implement it. I believe that this is a good approach to a coordinated procedure, which has also led to the fact that this avalanche could be stopped in a first round. It is also gratifying that last week, at the European Council last week, the decisions of the Eurogroup were raised to the overall level of the European Union, as Europe shows that it is capable of providing crisis management in this situation. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it is also often asked why the Austrian package is relatively larger than the German package. You usually accept the formula: Germany is about ten times the size of Austria. But: This formula is therefore not to be applied because Austria has a significantly higher share of its gross social product than Germany. Therefore, in order to provide the same collateral for our banks, as Germany makes available to its banks, we need to provide a framework of liability to a greater extent and to make more provision as far as – possibly – the supply of equity is concerned. I believe that with this Austrian package, which is now in the House today, and here, as I hope, we are very consensually adopted, we are able to stop this avalanche. However, it must be clear to all of us that this is only the first step. Yes, an important step, but only the first one! In the long term, there will only be confidence in the financial sector if we are able to come to some kind of international financial regulation, a financial regulation that will ensure more transparency, which will ensure that there is more effective control and supervision, and I say consciously: a more efficient form. It makes no sense to leave the pendulum in the completely different direction now and to think that everything has to be regulated now. That would be the completely wrong approach. – No, it is about giving markets those rules that are necessary so that markets do not destroy themselves. I believe that a distinction must also be made between large institutions that are now cross-border, so large that there is a risk that, if something went wrong, the overall system would be affected, so that the rules must be more stringent there, and smaller institutions, in which, if it is indicated, they take a greater risk, I believe that their own responsibility will be used to a greater extent in the future. That is to say, where there is a danger to the whole system, it is a matter of more stringent regulation, while at the same time allowing smaller institutions more freedom, in order to give security on the one hand and on the other hand to continue to do so. such as capital or financial market innovation, in order to ensure an efficient allocation of financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! So we won't be able to use it. The High House will also deal with other questions in Bälde, because many of them asked themselves last week: If we already have such massive packages attached by all European governments, why is the market going, why are the exchange rates going down? The reason for this is a very clear one: There is, of course, a very manifest fear of recession in Europe and the world as a result of this financial crisis. This recession risk is not an imaginary but a real one. Even in the past, financial market crises have not completely gone past the so-called real economy. Therefore, one must fear this, one must take this danger seriously as well. In this context, it is important, as I believe, that we have agreed at the European Council that, in addition to all the measures we are taking to stabilise the financial market, something also needs to be done for growth and employment. The It would be very clear that, as we coordinated at European level in order to curb this financial market crisis, we would also act in a coordinated manner to boost the economy in order to ensure growth and employment. There are, I think, obvious elements that you always need: One is that small and medium-sized enterprises need money to invest again. That is, investment allowances, tax incentives are certainly useful. On the other hand, it is certainly also useful to strengthen the purchasing power of workers through tax relief. It is certainly also useful to put infrastructure projects, where the procedures are already completed, into reality in order to give a corresponding boost. That is, after this avalanche is stopped, it is now about ensuring that there is more confidence in the financial system and at the same time ensuring that the economy is boosted and thus limiting the risks of recession. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With the package you have, we don't give the banks anything, but we do one: We provide guarantees and, if necessary, we provide equity. Banks must pay for the guarantees or liability. Should we go into equity, we can assume that at a later date when these shares are re-privatised, the state will probably generate a higher yield than now the cost of equity. In other words, it is not taken into account in the pockets of taxpayers, but the State does what it can do, namely to provide security. I am very glad that we in Austria can put these measures on the basis of a broad consensus, and I believe it is important to show the ability to act in this situation. I would therefore like to thank all the officials of the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Market Supervision, the Music Bank, for all who have helped to present this package during this short period of time, for their work – they have really worked day and night – and I would particularly like to thank Mr Finanzminister for his good cooperation, which made this package possible in a short time, which is a good and sensible one.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1289	Thank you. We shall now, as agreed, interrupt the meeting for a further quarter of an hour and continue with Mr Vice-Chancellor's remarks at 1.15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1331	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. Next, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer with a speaking time of 13 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1361	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed true that we have a critical situation in international financial markets and, of course, this crisis of the international financial markets also has its impact, its critical, its negative impact on the economy as a whole, on the growth perspective and thus also on employment. It is quite natural that, in an unusual, critical situation, policy is a matter of course – and this is the duty of policy in such an unusual situation – to act quickly, consistently and in a comprehensive sense, because we have two major tasks, ladies and gentlemen: This is on the one hand, to give the savers security and to banks the necessary stability – that is the first major objective of this package – and, on the other hand, to find that, of course, we also need to exercise political responsibility in a joint effort, such as this one today, also in the future for the issues of growth, employment and economic activity with the same intensity and with the same consequence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] When, if not now, ladies and gentlemen, is this political responsibility required? – This federal government is observing it. And I would like to thank all the political groups, very consciously, the opposition and the government parties, that we can actually give the right answers here in a joint effort. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What is the perspective, what is the central content of this package? – First of all: It is our task that we can react quickly in this crisis. In a crisis, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union, the European institutions, has proved itself in a very special way. In this crisis, for example, the euro area has given a very clear signal. The common European currency has indeed protected us from grosser effects. The European Central Bank is the institution of Europe which can react quickly. And the European Central Bank, ladies and gentlemen, and the euro are at eye level, yes, I would say, at a clear level with other institutions in the end of the world. This European perspective also needs to be addressed in crisis management. We have therefore prepared in the Eurogroup and in the Ecofin, which was then justified at the meeting of the Heads of State or Government and in the European Council. I would also like to thank you at this point for the excellent cooperation with German Chancellor Gusenbauer and with the Foreign Minister, whom I would like to warmly congratulate on the Austrian, red and white success in the United Nations on behalf of all of us and on behalf of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation, we have based the European foundation on this measure. What, therefore, does the package include? First: We can give the people with the deposit guarantee security for their savings deposits. Today, we in the Committee have also taken a step further: This deposit guarantee applies not only to natural persons, but also to small and medium-sized enterprises, so that SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises, the pillar of our economy – have security, ladies and gentlemen, very essential. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, we have established the legal basis for giving banks the necessary liquidity. I'm often asked these days: What do we mean by that? – This can also be expressed graphically: In order for the economy and the banks to function, the blood circulation must, as it were, be kept in motion. If this is interrupted, then we must ensure that this important basis of the economy, the blood circulation, the financial system, will come back to work. Therefore, this clearing point and therefore the possibility that the federal government also assumes liability for this liquidity. Quite clearly, not at zero! The taxpayers need to know that the banks are naturally paying liability fees. Liability is not free, but it is natural to pay for it. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, capital resources and capital resources will be ensured, if necessary. This means that the Republic can also acquire property rights. This is an Ultima ratio, and that means that we also give the banks the necessary security in international competition. If necessary, the State will also provide a protective shield so that there is no competitive disadvantages so that we can give banks this stability and security. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this law also gives us a new instrument. With the temporary ban on the sale of empty goods, for example, we can introduce a bar to the speculative elements on the stock exchanges, so that less speculation is done, but actually properly invested. We have made an essential addition to this law today: In addition to the more comprehensive deposit guarantee, we can now also take part in a regulation for the Minister of Finance to lay down certain rules for playing. People also have a right to do so. I'm often asked: What about the manager salaries in the future? What about the dividend policy? Or: What about the business policy of the banks? Is it still in the future to ensure that the banks actually invest properly the liquidity we guarantee them, for example in Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises? – We can now make these conditions and thus have the instrument in hand to help on the one hand, but also, if necessary, to take some influence on them – I would say – that right action is being taken that people actually get the right answers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to conclude by saying that I am often asked in these days: Is the direct money of taxpayers? – We give liability, ladies and gentlemen, and our aim is to avoid using this shield to use direct flows of funds, tax money directly. We want to make sure that the problem does not arise then. Also another picture: This is about the same as when, for example, a firearm car is purchased in a community for the safety of people. No one wants it to burn, but if it burns, then this shield, this shield must be present so that we can really help. No one wants these liabilities to fall apart. It is not the goal that we allow equity to flow into banks – but if it is necessary, then we have the instrument. Ladies and gentlemen! The second major perspective, in addition to crisis management, is: How's it going? What do we learn from it? . I think it is also a major task for policy at European level that we are aware that, for example, with the new assessment directives already adopted, with the new equity directives, with guidelines for management salaries, with a new Europe-wide directive on deposit guarantee for savers' security, with the issue of an independent European credit rating agency, or, for example, with the gradual European supervision of supervisors, Europe must provide the right answers. I say very openly to you, I have also changed my opinion in recent months and weeks in a question: I was originally of the opinion that it would be enough to network national supervision best. This will also be necessary, but beyond that, at the end of the process, we will have European supervision for those banks that operate across Europe, is actually a logical consequence. I also expect this ability to learn from others. Austria will bring in new initiatives or already have this on the basis of an initiative of the House. The speculation tax and the introduction of a financial transaction tax are indispensable, ladies and gentlemen, if we create new foundations in Europe and at global level in the long term. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The third major task, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore: I am convinced that there will be a redesign of the global financial architecture, and there is now a very great opportunity that Europe can actually act as a trendsetter out of this critical situation, as really that community that determines the rules of the game. This is a great opportunity for our continent, a great opportunity for our home country, a great opportunity for our economy. Why? – Because this new European self-confidence must lead to the fact that it can no longer happen as in the past, for example, that the USA is defining the Basel II rules, then Europe is applying these Basel II rules, but the USA is not. Or: that there are rating agencies that de facto are based solely on US law. – That requires European answers! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a fascinating opportunity for us to make the right European perspective out of this crisis. You see, the US is imitating our European system in its own programmes. Yesterday, for example, at the summit with Barroso, Sarkozy and President Bush, a global financial summit is expected to be held from 21 to 23. It was agreed in November after the elections in the United States. There Europe has a fundamental opportunity to base the social market economy on the global financial markets; a market economy, which I believe is: first clear rules of play, second transparency of markets – they must be transparent for all, including customers – and third supervision. – This is the task of the state also in the sense of the social market economy, which is the European response. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, we need the European and Austrian answers also in the economic perspective. Yes, it is true that the financial markets have their critical impact on the real economy, the growth forecasts are going down. It is all the more important that we now set the right prospects in the economic debate, for example on financing for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have achieved in Europe that the European Investment Bank provides EUR 30 billion for SMEs across Europe, and we want to ensure through Austrian measures that we make this European money most useful in Austria – for Austrian jobs and for Austrian SMEs. It is important that we also focus on the internationalisation perspective, that Austria also gives the right answer in export. This economic package is based on a solid and stable foundation of state finances. We must have this solidity now so that we can have the strength if we have to act. This is also my responsibility as Minister of Finance. I thank my colleagues, I thank the groups of the House, I thank the government partner for having now acted in this unusual way in an unusual situation. I invite that we continue to do so in the future on important issues of principle.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1515	The speakers of the next round have a speaking time of 14 minutes each. The first is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1540	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear government team! Ladies and gentlemen! The bank package to be decided on today, which includes €100 billion and which is now tied up here, comprises 15 billion which the state directly makes available to banks with guarantees, €75 billion will be made available for interbank trade, and 10 billion will be made available for saving savings. . We have now heard that, fortunately, the area of small and medium-sized enterprises with up to €50 000 has also been covered, so to speak, so to speak. This means that the State guarantees loans that banks give to each other. This is the one side of the medal, which we very probably have to consider critically. This is a bank relief with guarantees, but it also has to be done to relieve citizens and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. But today, on this important day, we are missing an economic package that would be necessary in this context. We need a short-term economic package, and as the opposition party we have rightly pointed out in the past that in recent years we have also called on the high-level economy to support this high-level economy in a positive way with tax relief measures. But this has been missed in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In any case, it is sad that there seems to be always a need for a crisis and that it seems that it is only when the hat is burning that one is ready to take reasonable and proper measures. 100 billion € – this is a huge sum that hardly anyone can imagine! Such a sum is not within our imagination, which is why citizens can hardly imagine. It is a pretty big challenge, and we had to realize that at the beginning of this crisis, there was also a misevaluation in Austria, from the Governor of the National Bank, Dr. Novotny, who at the beginning of this crisis was still of the opinion that this crisis would not cross over to Austria. As a result, Governor Novotny had to admit a breach, and he has certainly supported what we have called for from the opposition in recent years, namely that a tax relief package is now urgently needed. I would like to point out that, when we raised the demand for a rapid tax reform and tax reduction of €6 billion, the Federal Government was constantly praying that there was no such money at that time. Now, 100 billion euros of guarantees are very much being made available, and please do not pretend to be totally riskless in its entirety. Of course this 100-billion-€ guarantee is also associated with a risk! This is what we are presenting today – at least we hear it between the lines – as if we were to make 300 billion available, then we would be making an even better business in the future. So this is not quite the case, of course there is also a risk in this area. We should, please, not simply go into the agenda and give some praise to the European Union with its current measure on the green clover, because of course there has been a lack of early warning system here too. This has, of course, been a failure of this European Union. And as far as the ECB, the European Central Bank, is concerned, it must also be said critically that in the future it would be appropriate not simply to give in to the Fed by maintaining its commitment, but also to go a more independent European economic path in the future. The state now takes over €75 billion in guarantees and generates €15 billion, which is intended for the state to get directly from banks. It is hoped that these shares will be able to sell even better once the risk has been turned off, but they have been rejected for years by tax relief and economic recovery measures. Today, I would like to give an example that a construction leader has given me in the last few days, a construction leader from Burgenland, who has come to me and said: I've worked hard in my life, I've taken up debts for my house I've built, and I'm now paying this loan. I have saved myself 30,000 € by hard work for my life; that is very, very much money for me. At that time I was also advised by the banks to invest in shares, real estate – and today I am facing the ruins of my life: 3 000 € is the value of these shares today! That's exactly what we should not forget: We also need to counter the harm to the citizens in this area. We have the impression at times that there is already a certain Pharisee in this Federal Government, because both, both SPÖ and ÖVP, were the blockers in recent years, when it came to discharges for people and economic measures to strengthen the middle class. And now we have to stand by those citizens who are affected, the victims in our country! There are two groups that are massively damaged: Once again, there is the group of Austrian citizens who have invested in the second and third pillars of pension provision, in order to be able to take advantage of a certain guarantee of the future, which is now just ahead of their retirement and which is fully affected in this area. And there is the second group of Austrian citizens who have received loans for their home, which of course were often financed by funds, and also these people are now partly in front of the ruins of this funding and are faced with additional payments. In other words, we have a responsibility here, which we also need to meet quickly here in the House. And I already say that it makes it difficult for one of the previous actions of the SPÖ/ÖVP federal government to have confidence in them. However, despite all the criticisms and omissions that we see today in this bank package, we will agree to this package because it is a way in the right direction – not enough yet, but that is a good start. Of course, a comprehensive package of bank security is necessary, because the financial system is an essential contribution to the functioning of the economy as a whole, and we must do everything we can to ensure that this system remains a functioning one. This, of course, is also our political responsibility. Therefore, we want to make every effort to ensure and allow access to credit for businesses, but also for citizens, and action is needed in this area. If the banks today – and this is also part of the crisis – do not trust each other and the state for liabilities, even for loans between banks, if banks no longer trust each other, then it is not surprising that citizens too often do not necessarily have great confidence in the banking sector. In other words, we also need to strengthen confidence overall, and this right measure also serves to re-enhance confidence in the financial market. Of course, it is not to be forgotten that a comprehensive package of measures by the government is also necessary to protect the domestic economy, an economic package. There are also proposals of the opposition! I would ask that the SPÖ and ÖVP do not proceed according to the principle of discussing and deciding things somewhere in the chamber and then presenting them, according to the motto: “Fresh, bird, or die!” This cannot and must not exist in this situation! It is also necessary to have serious discussions with the opposition about their often correct proposals and also to involve many of the opposition proposals. Due to the lack of transparency in the financial markets, the risks of financial transactions have been etched and passed on to customers all over the world; we know that today. In the end, no one knew who finally bought the risks. For example, the bankers shared and traded the risks from US real estate transactions, and in the end neither the authorities nor the buyers knew where risks were “packed” at what level. The problem is, you can share risks as often as you want, but they stay as a sum. And that's exactly what's happening to us today. Whether the greed of certain bankers is the cause of the crisis is a common issue on the part of the population, and we should take the mood of the population very seriously here too. For one already has the impression that a few on the back of the peoples and citizens and peoples of this world have enriched themselves with speculation and that these debts are now being socialized on the back of the peoples. That's the impression that comes about here. Not for nothing you often hear in the folk mouth: The stupid bank robber attacks a bank – and the wise founders a bank! – This is quite something that is often heard in the folk mouth. And this should also stimulate us to think, to think. Neoliberalism, which has once again shown its failure and has turned out to be a scourge of humanity, shows that it needs regulation. That's the hour's commandment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It also needs security for the people and the citizens we have to make policy for, we must not forget. And we must at last take responsibility for the guilty in this area, which was partly argued in this package, thanks to Dr. Peter Fichtenbauere, who negotiated and advocated it for the Freedom Party. But that's just a small segment. We need to be much stronger in this area. But I'll talk about it. The financial crisis is likely to strike itself with a weight on the real economy – at least the financial experts say – in a way that one would not have thought possible recently. That means we have to fear going towards recession. We must counter-tax with all the means and possibilities we have to do so. The crisis eats itself with fearsome speed into the foundation of the financial system and, of course, threatens the provision of money to the real economy. It threatens the middle class, it threatens our jobs, and we are therefore called upon to find the right answers with economic packages as soon as possible. Just as little as in the case of war or in the event of a natural disaster, attention must also be paid to every euro in an economic crisis, not a question, but the principle applies: Distress knows no commandment. Therefore, we really need to put all the levers in motion quickly to counter them. Therefore, also convinced market operators rarely have anything to do with state intervention in exceptional situations, because if there is no market anymore, he can no longer solve any problems either. In such cases, the states are required, as we now see it. However, the Federal Government's package has some questions, and they are important to me. In the event of a possible nationalization, it is necessary to clarify many questions: Who decides what banks are to be saved? Is this then divided between red and black as usual and the proporz system continues again? It can't be. And who will ensure that the state measures do not completely distort competition in the banking sector? And what about the exorbitant high manager salaries in the banks? And that's especially important to me at the end of the day: At last I want to have a revelation page of our bank managers, a revelation page of our bank managers who bear responsibility and have to assume a liability and ultimately also have to be held liable! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And there is also a criminal relevance to be established. It can't be that there are bank managers who go home at €7 million a year, well known without premiums – with the premiums there are over €12 million – almost the 25-fold of what our Federal President deserves as gage and then will not be held responsible for speculation in such cases! I would like to make sure that these bank managers are already in charge of the issue. We need immediate economic measures in addition to the fast-tracked financial package for the banks. Basel II was addressed. Yes, please, just part of Basel II is to be rethinked, if you know that smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs in recent years have hardly received more loans in Austria. That's where we have to go. for our small and medium-sized enterprises, installers and other businesses, which often have a low level of equity and which have been denied access to the capital markets for years, set and counter measures. There's a lot to be done. I'll finish. The Minister of Finance other than Grasser said the following, I quote him: In every bank taking aid measures, the management should go! That is, I think, little to add. We should finally take this responsibility seriously in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1697	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. Also 14 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1718	On behalf of my group, I would like to predict that we very much welcome the fact that there is this broad majority in favour of this package. I would also like to stress that today the Federal Government, together with Parliament, will send a signal that will create confidence and will certainly prove that it has responded in all speed. However, when I studied the reports and read the comments, how many here in the house I noticed a comment, namely Herbert Lackner’s in the “profile, which wrote that Mr. Ackermann, Chairman of the Board of Management of the Deutsche Bank, who for many years has spoken against a state regulation of the financial sector, is now suddenly calling for impatient state aid. – This Josef Ackermann, head of the Deutsche Bank, has an annual salary of €16 million. This will probably not change when the whole crisis is over. Herbert Lacner continues: “For the risk these gentlemen so much like to talk about – the risk always applies only to the others.” And that's where we're at the point. For there are very many, hundreds of thousands, yes, millions of investors, to whom, even by means of a policy, has been informed, a new era begins, it begins a new age, namely: The shares are now becoming a co-owner and can then be shared and co-determined. You can then go to various Meinl European gatherings so that you know what co-determination really is – but this is only mentioned by the way because Karl-Heinz Grasser has fallen here. But he was one of those ideologists who repeatedly propagated that the state heard repressed, pointing out that now a new epoch is beginning. Yes, it starts a new epoch – but exactly in the other direction, when you see what has happened here and has gone from America. There, I think, only a small pile is active in financial market supervision and one has relied on how it is so common in the Anglo-Saxon region that there are self-regulatory forces in the market and that the market itself is something healing, something regulatory, positive. Yes, it almost looks like today that the state sometimes has to protect the market from itself. He has a really important role and function to play here. What is so depressing is that many investors have invested their savings in good faith. They trusted that the famous third pension column had a perspective, and no longer looked so much at the first pillar. At that time, the protagonists of this system have moved around from city to city and in the country and have preached, now the age begins, where one can also save pensions by propagating “more private and less state” in this area. Mr. State Secretary Kukacka, I do not know your pension, but I only know one thing, that was a mistake, because fact is that many have paid into the pension funds on the stock exchange and suddenly had to watch how their pensions have swung down to the Stock Exchange. And that's something that needs to be mentioned, too, if you're talking about these things today, because that was the background at the time. In this context, we must also say what was actually the original task of financial markets. The financial markets were at best an aid to the real economy, a support for the real economy. The decisive thing is the productive capital and not the speculative capital. Let us remember how this famous era of neoliberals began, the “hospitable films”, as all there sat with pants in front of their monitors and pursued with greed for fast money. It has been described as if it were the business – and the one who follows his normal work, his 40 hours a week, actually, is the stupid one. The wise one is the one who sits in front of the computer with the pants and quickly becomes rich there. - Wrong! That too is wrong. This too has collapsed, with all these chevideologists who wanted to tell us all that and would have liked the Thatcher spirit to spread throughout Europe. She really didn't have a generator, she even went into the general care until deep. The result was that there were major problems in the area of infrastructure and that the railway did not work anymore. For example, it has also been privatized the operation of telephone houses, which has led to the fact that the telephone houses have no longer worked – which may not be so serious in the mobile age, but at the same time, it was a proof that the private does not necessarily have to work better and that private is not always the solution to all of these problems. The famous sentence, which has often fallen, also during discussions here in the house: A state has never been a good entrepreneur! – Well, I also know private entrepreneurs who have become insolvent! [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Gusenbauer said that! Good sentence from Gusenbauer!]] From private banks I also know private entrepreneurs who then walk to the state and say: Dear State, please help me, for something has gone by on the stock exchange; I am no longer solving!, and so on. We should be really critical of what happened in the background, and also because of the fact that, when banks get into difficulties, this is, of course, a very sensitive and dangerous thing. That is why I welcome what we are going to decide here, and also as a signal towards banks, which is, in fact, an essential aspect of this whole economic “blood cycle”. And if there are problems in this “blood cycle”, then of course you have to help and support, because it is true that when the economy collapses, no one really has anything of it in the final effect: Consumers have nothing to do with it, it poses a threat to jobs, the economy is pressing – it has consequences that nobody wants. We know historical examples that these consequences have not only led to an economic crisis, but have also resulted in consequences for politics, consequences for democracy. That is why, as I think, we are calling on to do everything we can to counter it. What people really want to know is: Guaranteed to know that, if there have been painterries in various banks or in financial markets, they are persecuted with all the hardness on the part of the courts and justice. There can be no twinkling of eyes, that must be persecuted with all hardness! And I think that will be the same. It should also be so – this debate has been in place for a long time – that the relationship between manager salaries and what their responsibility is and, ultimately, their responsibilities should be seen when something goes wrong. These are things which, as I believe, are also a very essential aspect in this context, at least an aspect to be taken into account. In the past, it was always the case if states wanted to put together and put in place regulatory measures if they wanted to make supervisory measures more effective – we will now do so in Austria – that then this “famous” argument always came: Capital flight!, according to the motto: If you touch us, we leave this stock exchange, this economic location and so on! But now, as I think, there is a real opportunity for the state community, for the individual states – not just a chance, but a necessity, for: The most important thing in the economy, the most important for investors, the most important for investment is not only that there are loans, not only that one creates incentives for investment, but that there is also confidence. Trust is also crucial here! What we decide here today also has the background that trust should be created, and that is why it is so important that there are these signals – and that it is also used to take steps that lead to this trust, and can no longer be impressed by this “capital flight argument” with which one has always tried to prevent necessary steps. A thought also about Europe and the European Union, as this has also been mentioned by my previous speaker: I think those who have so far had doubts about the meaning of the European Union should actually have convinced this important institution of the banking and economic crisis. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I am still talking about critical comments and not about the superior smile you are now imposing, Mr President! I am referring to the fact that the European Union is now taking action, I am referring to the fact that we now know that, of course, there is an institutional need to do something here – for example, I now mention only the “quick intervention group” and so on. There was no such thing before; there was no early warning system either. – You certainly want to hear a little bit critical from me. [[Call the ÖVP: Write a letter to the reader!]] The fact that there is the euro zone that there is this strong currency – which, of course, would have been even worse if it had not been – is a positive one, and I believe that this must be outstretched. However, this also shows that in the European Union one has finally come together on these steps, with which – I assume – these supervisory structures and supervisory obligations will be improved, as will certainly be the case in individual national countries. It's just a shame that all this has happened now, because economics has also gone better in the European area, jobs have been created! It's a shame that it's damping now! That is why it is true that economic programmes are being considered at national and European level. This is supposed to be against what is happening right now: Withholding investment, short work at automotive factories, restraint on consumption and so on. It is now important that, in addition to these measures – ensuring that the liability framework is taken over, it is also necessary to intervene in banks and businesses, and thus also the taxpayer, to feel that money is not only made available, but also to take care of what is happening with it – on the other hand, however, in terms of consumption, steps are being taken to stimulate it. This can be tax incentives to increase investment, which can be tax reduction programmes and so on. These are, in any case, aspects that are very crucial: to take steps so that the weakening economy can be stimulated. The challenges in this context are not small when we think of the global threat of recession, precisely this financial crisis, just the need to take economic action. We are also thinking of climate change and its commitments and obligations, we are thinking of the global inequality, of the increasing imbalances between economies, of things that need to be done. However, the most important thing – in addition to the economic programmes on the one hand – will be the programmes for the efficiency, for the expansion of European, global control instruments, but above all, that one understands that the financial markets are not a casino. There were some possibilities of speculation, which is otherwise only imaginable in play casinos. That is just a pervert of the basic idea! And this perversion must be met in the state community with all vehemence, because that, I think, is really harmful. Coming to the end, I would like to talk about a few other aspects, because – even earlier – there was a little apathetic talk here in the house about the 1970s. The times when the good old keynes also played an important role in economic policy, also in budgetary policy, even in governments, were not so bad times. There was also the school of “Austro-Keynesianism”. And I think many of you now see Bruno Kreisky in a completely different light than you did in your neoliberal euphoria years ago. [[towards ÖVP]] I'm not saying this now from Nostalgia, but just put it in the room here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It will therefore be our task to keep the market economy functioning, to oppose cartels and monopolies and to make an active economic policy effective with the State's resources. Our task will be to promote a fairer distribution of goods in society and the economy, as well as social equality. This will be the most important things, as will the expansion of public pension, care and health financing systems. We must focus again on the first pillar of pensions, to which there is the greatest confidence. This is the new age that starts here – and this can only be marked by the health that the social sector, that pensions, education, safety and so on, are things where the free forces of the market have lost nothing. This is a very essential aspect which we see in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore: I am looking forward to the following discussions!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1800	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Van der Bellen. Also 14 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1824	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Also Josef Cap obviously reads the “Financial Times”, because in this article two days ago the article “A prophet reborn” – that is to say, John Maynard Keynes, the great theorist of economics – was reading, which, as described in this article, ultimately had nothing but saving capitalism. In German language it would be said: the market economy – or, if you want, the social market economy. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's something else! That's a difference!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, what you understand by Keynesianism, I would call ‘Vulgär-Keynesianism’. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka]] This has nothing to do with what Keynes really said. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] Today, we have available – in terms of content – three main packages to vote: the reform of deposit guarantee, guarantees and liability for credit institutions and insurance companies, and last but not least the possibility of government participation to expropriation if risk is in default in the credit sector. A total of a 100 billion package! 100 billion € – purely calculated about one third of the Austrian gross domestic product. That's a huge number! And of course, every one of us understands when he meets people on the street who say: Please, 100 billion for the banks, and if I go bankrupt, who's helping me? Nobody! – That's true, of course! It is not so easy to communicate that this is only a front-end bank rescue programme, but a rescue programme for the economy as a whole, for us consumers as a whole, ultimately for us taxpayers as a whole. Because if we did nothing in this context if we had done nothing, then there would certainly have been disastrous effects, similar to those of the World Economic Crisis 1929 and the following years. On the other hand, it is not to be overlooked that while one solves a problem, another or several other problems arise. One is certainly the old and unresolved question of morality, moral hasard, in particular of credit institutions, because if they have the guarantee that they cannot go down, they naturally take risks that they would not have taken. In any other sector of the economy, one would not accept it, only with banks and insurance companies has we not thought anything else so far. Of course, the danger is virulent, acute, that profits have been privatized here in the past and that possible losses can be socialized today. Individual bankers – the name Josef Ackermann has already liked today – are now really pouring oil into the fire. The remark that he generously gives the bonus that he owes for 2008 to the employees of his house, namely the Deutsche Bank, is now really, I find, not just tasteless, but provocation. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] This is a provocation, because to this day we are still waiting in vain for a comprehensive response from the bankers, the board members, the Supervisory Board members in view of the obvious failure of what I would once call an incentive design, i.e. the proper structuring of manager contracts, so that they enter into risks that are reasonable, but not those that are not reasonable. The current crisis has other causes or, at least, partly other causes than the world economic crisis at the time, but in the dimension it could be similar. The consequences that have occurred so far are almost identical, namely, first of all, the dramatic loss of assets – keywords: Stock market capitalisation, the value of shares worldwide fell by about half in 2008; in individual cases, if someone is wrong in his claims, of course, significantly stronger – and secondly, the financial market confidence crisis with the impact on credit markets. The measures we are taking today concern the second part, the confidence crisis and what the Americans or the English call "freezing up of capital", "freezing up of credit", but of course not the first part, because how should the stock exchanges be re-established? It may be worth looking at a factor – of course, it was not the only one that set this crisis in motion – namely the so-called subprime crisis in the USA. The American government is not guilty of this development. For example, the American government has confused mortgage credit policy with social policy. For a time, the American government has just required the appropriate banks and savings banks to be very generous with mortgage loans for the building of houses, according to the motto: Each American's own house or cottage. – Intelligible, only: There is no social policy in the credit market! This had the effect that today millions of Americans are sitting in houses where the mortgage is more than the value of the house. It will take years for this to be adjusted. That would be a problem for the Americans, as far as it is, “only” – “only” under quotation marks. But the real problem has been created by something that the economists think is in principle right – I also find it hard to understand what has happened here – namely the securitisation or securitisation of these “subprime loans”. That is, new constructions were formed, sold, others bought these constructions, according to the motto: These are really secured papers, there's real estate behind them, they're getting well paid for, why shouldn't I buy them? The idea of risk distribution, which stands behind it, is perfectly correct, but it has ultimately led to risks not being spread so much, but to hide, so that today no one knows what such plants are worth. This is an amazing phenomenon for which the credit economy, I think, still owes an answer, because only if we understand it properly can we make the reregulation of the financial markets, as we all want them, right in the future. For the time being, the consequences are indisparatable; in the sense that the American economy has to go down – due to the destruction of assets, on the one hand, because consumer demand, especially in the USA, is very much dependent on the corresponding debt, which in turn has to be reduced due to the falling stock deposits and so on, entirely apart from the real estate. This will therefore lead to a fall in the demand for consumer goods in the USA, of course to a fall in US import demand, and thus to a fall in real markets in Europe. That's inevitable. Now I have not yet lost a word about all the other things, of which we all in this house, I believe, do not understand anything or do not understand enough: Credit default swaps, other swaps, options, so options on all possible derivatives and so on. In the meantime, this has become a secret science, which seems to have gone back to the disadvantage of the bankers. Here again, I believe that financial market surveillance in all countries, in the US and in Europe, has always been a hindrance to these developments. That's a real problem. The products have been developed faster than they understood, silently than supervised. If we do not solve this in the future, we will have similar developments in five years, in ten years. The European Union: After first steps, which were absolutely not impressive and were similar to the global economic crisis, it was then possible to put in place joint actions that are impressive. With the first steps I mean, for example, the Irish, the Danes and then the Germans who have set the deposit guarantee to an unlimited level. This has, of course, turned states like Austria into lorries. It's not possible to resist such a thing, you have to, we have to go for it. This is exactly the same as it was done in the world economic crisis, “beggar thy nighbour”, it was said at that time, i.e.: Just look at you and not at the consequences for the others! This was the first phase; but in the second phase, at the latest with the European Council, the Foreign Ministers and so on, it has succeeded in making concerted measures which we picture here for Austria today – different in nuances; in the UK, in England it is not the same as in Germany, it is not the same as in Austria, but essentially very similar. In the Committee, in the main committee, I think we agreed that this development is not only highly interesting and not only shows that at least the top representatives of the European Union are aware of the problems, but also that it will have to reform the Treaties. Minister of Finance Molterer has not rightly pointed out that we need European financial market surveillance, and that will not do so. We have a strong interdependence between financial markets, credit markets, capital markets in Europe – but national supervisory authorities: That can't go well. It is completely unsolved what happens when, let us say, I do not want to suggest anything, an Italian mother powerful, but the Austrian daughter is absolutely solvable and healthy, or vice versa, and so on. That means: We need to amend the Treaties, which are certainly touching Austrian interests, Mr Cap. And you have previously avoided the question of how the SPÖ would amend the Treaties in this context, whether it is also capriculating itself on a national referendum on this highly complex issue. But I note that SPÖ does not wish to comment on this. Today's package, I believe, is generally acceptable. In any case, we will also agree to the package at third reading. However, there is a lack of an essential point which could also be resolved in the context of an economic package, which is above all the question of the deposits, the question of the so-called lenders of foreign currency loans and, in general, the question of loans secured by deposits, which are now only half of what they were worth a short time ago. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The background of this very long sentence – I apologize for it – is that, although we take only the private persons who do not want to release them from the risk they have received by crediting their mortgage in a foreign currency, with low interest rates, but additional risks, we do not want tens of thousands of such loans to be made due now because of the fact that weitem has not reached the extent that was assumed in the granting of the loan. One – how should I say? – Co-indebtedness of banks and credit institutions in this context cannot be a priori excluded. In conclusion: I do not think that the World Economic Crisis of 1929 is repeated. We have had the experience, at the head of the central banks, people who, we say, are professionals. And, above all, in the European Union, we have an institution that can prevent or at least prevent what happened at the time, namely that the individual states only look at themselves, neglect the consequences of the other, and thus only trigger the great international crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1911	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e1979	Mr Klubobmann Dr. The next one to speak is also a 14-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2000	High house! I'll close with Professor. Van der Bellen: Yes, it is true that at the beginning of this crisis there were national special paths and also licensing. One has also seen that this causes a chain effect – it was not just the Irish. First, the US has begun to go a completely independent way. The Icelandics have guaranteed everything, but have excluded the British customers. As a result, the British have frozen all Icelandic assets using the Terror Law – literally, please: the Terror Law. In fact, that's crazy in the 21st century. In the 19th century, such a national uprising took place at all. Thank God in the end, as you have said, was an impressive act of power in Europe. Even the “NCC ” referred to this, it said that it was full of admiration. By the way, the Swiss have now joined this path. This crisis has actually sprung up all quantitative ideas. At present, about € 2 000 billion is guaranteed at European level alone or made available through direct capital grants. If you still charge the US, Russia and Asia, this will probably account for over €3,000 billion. In Austria – so that you can already take the risk here – this is not only a shadow guarantee that is given, but a real guarantee, which of course also includes risks. So I think it's right, like H.C. Strache, to talk about these risks. For example, we guarantee all savings by the end of next year. That means we guarantee 185 billion € and once again 90 billion € over other guarantees to direct capital injections. This corresponds in total to a complete Austrian national product. The Germans will do this the same way. The Irish even guarantee the fourfold and the Icelands the twelvefold. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see: This cannot go indefinitely; in this respect I agree with Professor Van der Bellen. That can't go without conditions, it must be clear. If the state jumps in here, it must be handled wisely and with an eye. Those who are supposed to pay for this will ask themselves television and, of course, many other citizens. – In democracies, it is always the taxpayer who ultimately is liable for it. And if we asked him if he was willing to take on such a tremendous burden: I am not sure how in the event of an arbitrary referendum or survey such a referral of the sovereign, the taxpayer, was assumed. This is also the reason for the fact that in this dramatic situation all over the world governments operate with emergency regulations and with rapid procedures in Parliament. [[Abg. Strache: In Switzerland one would vote for it!]] That is the same in Switzerland. There has been a system in the Constitution which takes place in exceptional emergency situations. This is so in the USA, in Germany, in Austria. By the way: The EU rules of the game within the vote are far too difficult – by the way, a subject that needs to be considered within the European Treaties. Here today the “old” National Council and the “old” government advise in the usual composition. I would like to thank you very much for the excellent cooperation between Wilhelm Molterer and Alfred Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Strache: That's why new elections were held! That's absurd!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: This is really absurd!]] I would also like to thank the opposition and the government parties for having taken real responsibility in this rapid procedure to help and give security, which is vital in this situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we must avoid – I would like to discuss this point very openly here – that the child should be poured out with the bath. This is absolutely necessary, after the speech of Josef Cap, because, in reality, the protectionists and etatists of all countries have been rubbing their hands for a long time. I say very openly here: Globalisation, international trade, have brought hundreds of millions of people out of the most bitter and extreme poverty in recent years. And I also say – this is my concern in the current situation – that the Emerging Countries, the emerging countries, will be the first to pay the hardest price for it. You can see it already: The most important titles in China, India, Brazil have lost half their value, in Russia even 60 percent. In the coming year, the fresh capital flowing into these Emerging counties will be significantly reduced from 900 billion to not even 600 billion. Therefore: The free world trade, bound by game rules, has its meaning. This was the engine of a development that certainly shows the last decade in retrospect as a golden decade. Let's not throw away these achievements. Let's not shake the kid out here with the bath, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The same applies to the financial sector. I mean, it's very nice that we can ride from the Deutsche Bank here via Mr. Ackermann, but one thing I say clearly: It is not an Austrian system bank, it is not an Austrian bank in a situation similar to the Scottish banks, like Fannie and Freddie and many other banks – thank God not! I also hope that the risks can be controlled. Therefore: We also do not shake out the child with the bath, and we do not accuse all those who work in the financial industry of the same offense! That is not justified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, the financial sector needs to be reorganised – that is not a question – especially in order not to make the mistakes of the 1930s, namely decoupling and protectionism. I am also speaking very openly of a clear warning to all those who, like Josef Cap, are actually questioning the social market economy as a whole. By the way, I have heard that the Berlin Communist publishing house Karl Dietz has already determined a triple demand for Karl Marx’s “The Capital”. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bitch.]] Only, friends, that can't be it, if you're about to announce by one hand the nationalization of the entire health system – as the private doctors and the private sanatoria will thank you – the total nationalization of the entire education system when you question the entire second and third pillars. Perhaps you don't know, but in reality, the shares doubled in the years 2000 to 2008 when you take the long cut; this is an increase of 8 percent per year. Don't question that, and shake it. You don't have the whole child with the bathroom, dear Josef Cap! That was “retro”, what you offered here. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] Just to remember: This whole crisis, as Professor Van der Bellen mentioned, was triggered by the US mortgage crisis. Now you just need to know the following: The American mortgage market is the strictest regulated market in America, and Fannie and Freddie, these two mortgage banks, are semi-state banks that, at the request of the Clinton administration – not the “evil” Bush administration – had in themselves the goal of providing, in particular, the poorer sections of the population with favourable access to their homes at the best possible conditions. That was the idea, and Congress has supported this with many programs. In fact, this has been completely wrong – because you can't prove a plot to a double value, to a two hundred percent value with mortgages. As early as 1999, the “New York Times” has warned of this development; for reasons of time, I do not read it, that is to be read in the “Press” by Christian Ortner. At the time, it was said: It is likely that the government will have to save these two banks once. Market failure? – There was a huge portion of state failure and political failure with it! In addition, the policy of the cheap money of the American Fed, in contrast to the ECB, has been much more cautious here. There are some Austrian protagonists who have criticized the ECB for not going the way of Alan Greenspan – cheap money, unlimited liquidity. [[Abg. The Fed is private!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Fed is private!]] What was the result? – The bankers have of course believed that liquidity is always and everywhere unlimited. Therefore, risks have been received without number, and even the most serious have taken part in this area. In addition, there have been modern products – you have pointed out – these famous derivatives in hundreds of formulations. These were of course always by three steps and thus far ahead of the regulators. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need is not more government, but better government! We need rules, but we need sound rules that are really capable of addressing the problem wisely and with an eye. If this package is being worked wisely – and I am very convinced of what the two government representatives have said – then the taxpayer can get away from it without it as a risk guarantee, perhaps even with a small profit; it is not certain, we need to know today and tell the people in Austria. If, for example, Europe is facing the back of its feet, then perhaps we can really come up with global rules, which also apply to tax havens or offshore centres. If the financial sector is better prepared, we will be better prepared in the future for crises. As I said, the social market economy is something different from the American model or the etatistic model. I put great value on that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will not feel responsible for the mistakes of American capitalism. But we should insist on our model, because: The authoritarian China is already baffling itself with the fact that it has the better model and that it has actually found this balance between a strong state and the market to be very well functioning. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be our model! We know from the difference with our neighbours exactly what it is like to have a social market economy. All our neighbours have experienced this exactly in the planning industry: the same starting point – and after four decades their economic performance was less than half of the Austrians! In other words, the social market economy only works if there is a transparent, functioning market with the right framework conditions. That does not mean: no rules, but that means: right rules, sound rules and, above all, public control, public opinion, as it hopefully happens here. On the topic of Europe: I share the opinion of both Alfred Gusenbauer and Wilhelm Molterer that this crisis has shown very precisely that every country – and the smaller and medium-sized of course – can be overrun by such a crisis. It is no coincidence that, for example, the Prime Ministers of Denmark or Sweden – I am not talking about Iceland at all – think aloud about whether it would be beneficial to consider themselves in the present situation, but to be involved in the euro area. It is clear that we are well positioned if we have the ECB when the ECB acts for us when, in the international financial institutions, the European Union, the Commission has its seat and its voice, and almost speaking for Europe. Wouldn't it be classy to have the Treaty of Lisbon now – even knowing that President Sarkozy is actually holding the presidency excellent? Would it not have been possible to have someone who could be a strong voice for Europe for a certain duration of two and a half years, up to five years? Would that not be much more useful than to have, for example, the World Financial Summit, which is taking place at the very interface between two presidencies, in a few months, already in two months of the next, which needs to re-interpret itself? I believe that in the present situation, we should recognize that this European Union is an absolute advantage for us. We shouldn't weaken her. We also know – and I am completely of the same opinion with Van der Bellen – that there will have to be changes, changes in the Treaty, whether it be towards European financial supervision, whether it be towards a single voice in foreign policy, perhaps also in financial and economic policy – why not! This requires changes in the contract, changes to primary law. Each of these questions must be subjected to a national referendum: Friends, then it won't take place! You have to know. Therefore: Yes to this package! We agree with some abdominal pain because we know about the risk that is going to happen today. But there is no alternative. Thanks to all those who have contributed – I hope it works out well!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2140	Now comes Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Speaking time: also 14 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2161	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In his 15-year-old work here in the Hohe Haus, our late Federal Minister Dr. Jörg Haider spoke very often of this speaker's pulpage, as a clubman, as a simple MP. He was a passionate, enthusiastic parliamentarian, and he not only understood parliamentarianism as a hollow phrase and word, but lived it. I would therefore like to thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen in the House, as well as the Austrian Federal Government, first and foremost Chancellor Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, very much for the words and gestures of recognition, respect and participation. Retribution to God, thank you! [[BZÖ, SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ as well as Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This 100-billion-€ package – converted 1.4 trillion Austrian schilling – already has a dimension that is inconceivable for everyone. Experts in our club have calculated that if you put five hundred euros on top of one another, this sum would result in a tower 21 kilometres high – only that everyone can imagine about how much it is. It is therefore also quite relevant to ask why these €100 billion have been achieved in such a dimension for Austria. We've been looking at this now. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have reason to reason that the financial sector in Austria has a much higher share of gross domestic product than is the case in other countries. – Unfortunately, that is not true. We've been looking at this: The latest Eurostat data show that the share in Germany, Austria, Spain, France, Italy, Norway and Sweden is virtually identical to around 4 per cent; it is interesting only in Luxembourg, as we know, and in Switzerland higher. – That means that can't have been the reason. Of course, it is already allowed to ask why Austria is actually on the same footing with Spain with this package, which we will now also agree with, because it is alternativless. In comparison, it is only smaller than in Germany with 400 billion, and even if you compare it with US-America – 700 billion – then the dimension is naturally to question. It's a guarantee package, it's a package to stabilise money market traffic and, above all, to restore trust, and I think that's the most important thing. In our opinion, however, trust can only arise if there is strong control in this package, very strict framework conditions and complete transparency, openness and honesty. Some things have already been implemented, some things have to be moved and changed, I mean. People – Mr Klubobmann Schüssel has also mentioned this – rightly ask: Who pays for this now? Who pays it, and who will pay for it, for example, if perhaps “only” – under quotation marks – the 15-billion equity injection is to be paid? Why do people ask that? - You have to question that too. They ask, therefore, because we have been telling them from the High House and, above all, the Austrian Federal Government for months and years that there is no money. There is no money for higher wages, there is no money for much higher pensions, there is no money for a tax reduction and for more social benefits. That is why people are actually amazed at how suddenly billions of people are being jogged about and billions are being raised. That is what people question, and they do not understand. Therefore, the answer to these questions that we are constantly asked about this package must also come today: Where does the government take about €15 billion for capital increase when they come to bear? – I know, it's a lot of placebo, it's a lot of the talk that this doesn't come anyway. But who has the guarantee? Who guarantees that billions of liabilities will not fall to the detriment of taxpayers? Who tells us that because of this package we may not lay the foundation for new debt in the next generations? What happens if this package becomes striking, actually with the urgent discharge measures we all demand – tax reductions et cetera? And what about the control mechanisms that are urgently needed for this package? Not only the Court of Auditors, but also we, Parliament, all of us, are required to do so, because Parliament, all of us, is the trustees of the taxpayers of the Austrians. That is why we cannot simply issue a blank check here, but we in Parliament are required – and that is also the request of the BZÖ! – to decide on a co-operation committee, as did the German Bundestag, so that this House can also have full control of future regulations. I think it's necessary that we do that. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Of course, it also raises the question of indebtedness. What is actually going on in return for this package? – Because it cannot be that the taxpayer now ultimately takes over the bill for the transmission damage of so-called and much quoted Turbo-Capitalism. That can't be! Nor can it be that the taxpayer stands up for the boundless greed of careless bank managers and unrestrained financial sharks. I say here consciously: one should not flatten, this does not happen in Austria, mainly in the USA, even in Europe; one must not standardize. In Austria, we have not yet been able to thank God for such a situation. But neither can it be that profits continue to be privatized and billions of losses are socialized. That is why we have brought ourselves very constructively into this package. We also have further ideas on how we can make this package even safer: for example, with a comprehensive disclosure and transparency, as we have seen in the time of the previous government at BAWAG. Something happened there, yes, and the BAWAG was also stopped to open its books, to give insight and to see what happened there. I believe that the Austrian taxpayer – and I come back to this co-operation committee – should also have the right to consult, with his elected representative, whenever something happens, to ensure that there is also a decisive control right. We also need new accounting regulations internationally. We now know from the events in the USA that the system has failed. Which system has failed? – A system of so-called shadow banking economy, a shadow banking system that actually acted outside of any accounting regulation. Finally, the crisis has arisen – from the real estate crisis to the financial crisis to the financial market product crisis to the liquidity crisis, so that artificial liquidity has to be created in order to avoid inflation that is rising worldwide, whereby experts are now no longer talking about inflation but of deflationary developments, of a global money devaluation that can ultimately come to our house. Finally, it is also about humanities in the US banking industry, so that there are finance ministers like the current one that comes directly from Goldman Sachs. Well, he's not interested in better, tighter banking rules. – This is certainly not the case, because it has ultimately been set up by the banking world. That is to say, this mismanagement must be combated, also with more participation for taxpayers, but also with something like a so-called code of conduct, i.e., a code of conduct for managers – a code of conduct, not only as regards income, repayment possibilities, liability, but also the behaviour of managers. I say it again: no flat-rate condemnation! That's what you have to say: Winning is, of course, part of human nature, also of bank managers. What must not be, however, is that it is the unscrupulous abcash-humanity that ultimately comes from money that must then be held liable by the taxpayer. On European Banking Supervision, which Minister for Finance Molterer addressed: Yes, we too believe and see this as necessary, because the individual national banking supervisors are obviously unable to control and prevent such developments. However, we also need the control of individual financial markets. In this rage of thousands of funds and investment opportunities, which are often awakened to the citizens who hardly recognize themselves, once – you have to say that – hardly anyone knows each other. That means that, in the end, individual financial market products need to be controlled, not according to the motto, but according to the motto, better regulation. I think that's the meaning and the slogan of today. Ladies and gentlemen! This 100-billion package alone would be too little. We have already heard today – and this is said again and again – of course, this casino entity that exists must be put to an end. This can only be done if there is really a 100% transparency and openness. On the subject of revelation silk, I give you the right, Mr Klubobmann Strache: Such revelations must also be made. You're necessary, because otherwise it could happen that this huge package, which is thought to be a very big game of calm, eventually mutates to the next very big casino chip. – We all don’t want to do that; that must be prevented. Two more sentences on this a little left-wing romance, which now appears again, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, on nationalization romance, perhaps from the seventies; You called it yourself. We are already in line with the principle of the social market economy, and I say to you: The state is not the better banker, it has only more money – money from taxpayers, which it eventually takes itself and when and can be interpreted again to the detriment of taxpayers. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Therefore, we warn against such ideologies that are now emerging again. It is perhaps a bit reminiscence in these new nationalization waves, which may break out there, according to the motto: today the banking and insurance sector, tomorrow the housing cooperatives, then the pension funds and at the end the health system, social insurance and health insurances; everything is “cracking”, so we now have to state and use the taxpayers everywhere as a guarantee provider, so all the salvation from the state! – It cannot be, as we have seen in the past, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We reject that. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] DDSG, Semperit, BAWAG, National Lights Plait – if you list all of this, then we're actually healed of it. [[Abg. Krainer: The BAWAG was not a state bank!]] We say stone and clear: Yes, the state should carry out its core tasks of protection and security. I think that's right. We say no, however, to a new state dirigism and a little social-democratic romance that comes up there. [[Abg. Krainer: The BAWAG was not a minute in state ownership!]] [[Abg. Krainer: The BAWAG was a private bank!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the effects on the real economy have also been addressed. These are already noticeable: We notice short-time work, we notice major problems in the individual businesses running towards recession. Whoever now closes his eyes to the effects of the real economy is ultimately responsible for unemployment. That's the big danger we're all seeing right now. That is why we need a system of discharge now. Nevertheless, we need discharge measures – I say: nevertheless – but we still need an advanced tax reform. 2010, Minister of Finance, is too late! We need purchasing power now, we need something to boost the engine, we need a tax reduction now and quickly for the people of Austria, so that we can also create more purchasing power. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But we also need this often quoted economic package with a medium-sized fund – a central idea also of the BZÖ – and with funding, with a special support – that is an interesting variant; look at this, Mr. Finanzminister! – the approximately 70 000, 80 000 or more one-man companies in Austria. If, for example, we save them two years of additional labour costs, we can promote them if they include someone in their business, we could already make a preventive effort to create thousands of jobs in that country. - That's a good idea! Let us look together at whether such a thing can work, if that would not be the right way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is, despite all the difficulties in the financial market, despite all the poor prospects, we should put forward optimistic measures for the future, measures that are already taking place. Therefore, it is also necessary for you to present us with a corresponding economic package before the next meeting – there is still an existing government – perhaps by now. We put our ideas on the table. I think they're good. It would be good if this economic package were also to be carried broad, as well as the package to be decided today, which is important to strengthen the financial markets, and which we will be happy to support today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2327	Mr Faymann is now speaking. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2349	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say something about Josef Cap's speech, which has now been raised several times. I think I really understood Josef Cap, as most likely: He does not want to state a private sanatorium, nor has he proposed to state a private school. He also did not want to make a request for a ban on private supplementary pensions, but, Mr Kukacka, it is now a matter of being able to live on a state pension. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] – You should not have to rely on the additional board. [[As a result of the SPÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] The financing of health insurance funds must be so secure that everyone is free to take out a private supplementary insurance scheme for special benefits, but that every citizen receives an optimal health care even without private supplementary insurance. [[As a result of the SPÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] In education, everyone is free to accept the offer of private schools – many have done so by sending their children to private schools – but the public school system should be so good that no one is dependent on private schools because he knows that public schools are good enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Unfortunately, this is no longer true in Vienna, because your policy has failed there!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And why doesn't Cap even say it that way?]] It is a political consequence from the discussion over the past few weeks that we need to be clear that stock markets are not something that improves additional pensions from year to year, that they are not – as some may even have believed – as safe as a savings book, just a little more. All the errors that have arisen have caused some people who are looking at how much extra pension is really left, as the financial status of the supplementary pension looks, to be very shaken, because they have not expected stock markets to crash so rapidly. This is about money that families have expected, with which people may have tuned their loans, their purchases according to expectations, which they have received in many places. These people now face the ruins of their reflections. That is why, of course, it will also be important for us in the future never to promise the people security where we will not be able to guarantee them in the end – and that includes, as we have seen, also stock markets and some financial products. Today, all those who have contributed to preparing this package of measures – a 100-billion-€ security package, a shield, a security shield, as it has been called – have already been thanked. I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor, the Deputy Chancellor, the many experts of the Ministry of Finance and the Governor of the National Bank, already mentioned today. I too think it is very pleasing that there is such broad agreement in Parliament, because psychology of trust also has an economic value. And trust also comes from the fact that we have a joint decision here in the House. I would like to add a few comments as a consequence of the further discussion: I think we already have to stick to the fact that what we call prevention in terms of health has failed internationally. We will therefore have to talk with the same determination with which we have now built this safety net about a European and an international reorganisation of rules, but also about European supervision. If the citizens were given the impression that our determination and speed were to convene Parliament's meetings and take decisions, then we would have to stop half-way now. The population is expecting – I am convinced – that we are also going the second path just as determined and fast, namely the path of the consequences. We must make sure that we do not go back to the agenda in the future, but that we will create more transparency, more control and new rules in both the country and in Europe and also where we can vote internationally. Furthermore, the population – and I am convinced that we are not using this discussion to explain why we can't do anything for the economy now, because we have already decided something – so to speak, to use it as an excuse – but that we are bringing about the same determination, the same courage and the same pace for urgent action to counter a threatening unemployment. Many citizens know very well that financial markets and lending have something to do with order books, that order books in many companies are only being filled with concern, but that this will not be felt in the construction industry in the next few months, for example, because orders for the construction industry and measures in the economy have a longer lead period. We know, however, that there is a need for delaying effects, which will, of course, also have an impact on growth and thus also on employment in our country. We are therefore called upon to take countermeasures as quickly as possible so that all those predictions which speak of a strong rise in unemployment and a radical decline in growth do not occur. I therefore believe that the citizens expect us to move forward with the same closeness and perhaps with the same unity in the field of the consequences for the labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2443	Now comes Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Proud of speech. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2465	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the Intergovernmental Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I've got it a little easier: I did not interpret any of my previous speakers from our group, but the statements that have been made over the last few hours have left nothing to be desired in terms of clarity and prospects for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's the difference!]] That's why I can go right into the middle of the topic, which has already been discussed extensively today and of course also the spectators, who move people in Austria very much. In the last few days and weeks we have certainly faced the biggest economic and financial test on the international markets since the 1920s of the last century. At this special meeting today, this decision for a 100-billion-€ protective package for the Austrian banks should be made clear and clear, and the political needs for the future should also be derived from it: After initial difficulties in deciding on a common approach to combating the financial crisis in the European Union and its instruments, it is ultimately precisely due to the unanimity, to the ECB, to the European Union's bodies, that a common, decisive response could now be coordinated and that the national parliaments can now have the appropriate national implementation. This implementation not only serves the liquidity and maintenance of the financial flows between banks, so that the economic cycle can continue to be maintained in the future, but also, of course, the security of the savers, the people in our country, who have very essential savings with their savings, depend on the fact that the banking system of Austria and the European Union also has scope for action in the future. It is also important to note that the €100 billion – and there are obviously many difficulties outside the main tables and wherever it is discussed – is not liquid means, but liability, of which we all hope and expect that they will not be impacted and that our margin will not be limited even in the budgeting of future measures in the economic and public budgets. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that this financial crisis is not committed to bringing back to the foreground a re-nationalization debate – a retro-model – but that we have our right conclusions from the mistakes that have certainly come from America. I am firmly convinced that our economic model of the future must also be the social free market economy. The free market has made Europe, Austria strong. Much of what we have established today in the sustainable pension and social insurance systems has been achieved in a free market economy. – On the contrary: Many, almost all the state systems – you know that better than some others – have gone down the stream in the past years and decades, and last but not least, we are still paying for the renovation of the state-induced crisis of the 1970s and 1980s and are thus still putting in place the scope for future investment today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we should not easily use this financial crisis to beat political capital, but simply look at what is to be done. [[Abg. Strache: Now the reverse path has also failed! Both models failed!]] No question! We need new key points for the social free market economy. Willi Molterer, whom I would like to expressly thank – together with Alfred Gusenbauer, but above all the Minister of Finance – has carried out today, which in future should be the guiding principles for the free market economy. It is a question of the international financial market regulation in order to avoid such developments in the future; it is also a question of improved and more central supervision of financial markets; and thirdly, it is undoubtedly a question of greater transparency up to the customer level for those who invest their money in the financial system or operate from the system for private households, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises. At this point I would like to turn to a challenge that is now the second step in dealing with the financial crisis. No one or few will be as affected as our small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the engine for the job situation and for the economy in Austria. That is why we need to ensure access to finance, which is certainly not made easier by the financial crisis, with an economic package for our companies, in order to keep them competitive so that they can secure jobs. We should help companies with liabilities to support them with all possible means of exploiting credit frameworks and also discuss whether we can favour individual investments that are labour-intensive in order to launch a smart economic package as a first aid. We want to do this without delay – if it is still this week in the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. It is also about maintaining enough room and space for a future government – however it is composed – to be able to react when crises like the present come. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is also a lesson from the financial crisis, from what we want to set up today as a package: We must not forget, despite all the “crisis moods” – under quotations – to pursue the objective of keeping our finances in shape in order to be able to respond if it is necessary to maintain economic cycles, financial cycles, to support small and medium-sized enterprises and to combat unemployment in the future. In this sense, thank you to all the parties involved under the leadership of the Minister for Finance for the lacing of this package. It is also nice that today this can obviously go through the stage unanimously. It is an encouraging sign for the future, and it came at the right time, was professionally prepared and will not miss its effect.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2555	The speaking time of the next five speakers is also 8 minutes each. Mr Mag. Kogler is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2579	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Before the debate is now too sluggish, I would like to point out a few points on which I, at least for our group, claim that we have not made the decision easy. Just as the debate goes on, a few things belong slowly back to the head. Mr. Finanzminister Molterer, the right thing is – I want to take up the pictures you used – that this is a fire. If you could say a few months ago that the lunch is burning – starting, of course, in the US and perhaps a year ago with the subprime crisis – it is a long time now a lot more. For a long time, the building burns – the building of the financial institutions and the financial organisation at all. And that is why – and only for this reason – the Greens are in favour of fire protection measures, or first of all of all of these measures being taken. It needs to be deleted. It must not be saved with water in such an action. I see this as it is, but we must not take a look at where all this comes from, where the arsonists sit and how to organize fire protection in the future. - That's important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Klubobmann's bowl looks so skeptical. – I can calm you down: We still prefer a repair-needed extinguisher than none at all. Professor Van der Bellen has announced approval in third reading. I now announce that we will not vote in the second reading on individual points. Perhaps the following speakers from my group will be left with time to explain this more precisely. First of all, I would like to put on a few basic things: The question of mortgage loans in the USA has already been raised and asked. As far as this philosophy and tradition are concerned, however, you, Mr Pröll, want to revive or simply continue to know, namely this whole ideology “more private, less state”, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this was correct in certain areas from a green point of view, but has long since been overshadowed by the Bogen. For a long time, the neoliberal battling battling fur has disappeared, in which all of you have been instructed, and the leader finance minister, who was particularly vulnerable to this, is now no longer there. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: (standing at the club staff) I am very well there!]] - Not you! Your predecessor at this time; we do not want to mention him here. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: A very good finance minister!]] Mr Pröll, in your remarks I have been given the impression that you too have been infected by this virus. What is it about transactions in the financial sector? – It is obvious that there is now a clear need for regulation. I'm joining you. Better regulation is better than making that almost superfluous – from me, but then we also have to create targeted instruments for it. I would also like to draw the House's attention to the fact that a request by the Greens in the last main committee, which the Government would have attached to the main committee opinion at Council level or EU Council level, was not adopted, neither by SPÖ nor by ÖVP. This was exactly the direction. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Because she did it anyway!]] What exactly is the cause of this derailment of financial markets? – It is not the problem that we have a banking system. We need this because of God's will; of course, we need financial cycles. The function of banking and credit is, however, primarily to pool savings deposits so that loans can be granted, and the macro-political management by a central bank. All of this is simple and simple and thus supporting the real economy. In any case, it is not the task of the financial markets to operate pyramid games. All of this could not matter to us, if the construction of the pyramid and its collapses remained without impact on the real economy, the so-called real economy – probably an unword of the year 2008 –. This is the problem: that when the pyramid swings up, individuals deserve it very well, they are very well able to clear up real power to the side, and when the whole game collapses, all citizens on the globe pay the token for it. It is the asymmetry that is in it, which is the big problem! [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] We also feel it in Austria, if, for example, small and medium-sized enterprises are already complaining that they no longer receive loans at the old conditions, that much more security is required, even higher interest rates et cetera. Where is that supposed to lead?- Oh, my God! This is the effect not only of the downturn in the economy, but of this financial crisis. The problem lies there, and that is why it is so important that you do not look at it, but intervene in it. This must not lead to overregulation, but at least to regulatory measures. At the moment, the impression is that – not only in the US or also in the rest of Europe, but also in Austria – the financial institutions would not be regulated by politics and thus by social interests, but that the financial institutions hold a policy that regulates them. That's it! We had this in the findings of the Banking Committee, which we have when we look at the European financial policy so far. No institutions have been made to introduce a pan-European financial market surveillance system at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now there are lip confessions, yes, now there is also a historic window open! Now we could and should try to ensure that there is an EU-wide financial market surveillance system. Of course, this will take some time. First of all, this will be, as it were, a financial interpol, a cooperation between national supervisory authorities, but anyway. – I hope there will be something going on; You have given your word. But it also needs instruments, because finally it is about not being done everything just because it can be done. In the Federal Republic of Germany, there are 53 000 different derivative institutions, i.e. individual contract provisions. The authority there, the BaFin, itself says they don't understand them at all, but they approve them. Therefore, there must also be authorisation procedures for these instruments, which at least understand those who approve them. Where else is that supposed to lead? – In this context you have to look at it. Their credibility will also be on the test stage when it comes to finally introducing a financial transaction tax or a framework regulation for the rating agencies on its part. By the last minute, these institutions and also financial products have been evaluated with Triple-A, which were fully packed up to below the roof bar with lazy loans. This is the system I felt at Minister Pröll that he still wanted to defend it. That's not how it's done! We will look at it – not only as regards your initiatives in Europe, but also those in Austria. If I read that the five largest banks – which are chordd – are already working on government participations – the issue is half an hour old, then we will see under what conditions you, Mr. Finanzminister, give guarantees on liquidity or on equity use, because that they are still serving on this occasion and the interests of taxpayers are not preserved, that is going to go too far. This is against the background – and this is the great drops of advertising in your law – that no four-eye principle is introduced, that the Court of Auditors is not sure and that we give the ministry certain freedoms that we do not like. Nevertheless, a folding extinguisher is better than no discharge vehicle at all, therefore our approval, but we will ensure that the interests of taxpayers are safeguarded. I guarantee you that we will read in the media the next morning – for tomorrow this law is in the Federal Council – which banks are now gracious to the state: those banks that wanted to sue the parliamentarians when we set up the Banking Investigation Committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's incredible! Now the spear turns around at once. Society and politics must set the conditions for the economy and not vice versa. If we don't understand that now, then probably never again.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2714	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Maximum speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2735	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! For some speakers here, I almost felt that the debate is not taking place in the Parliament in Vienna, but in the USA, because, as other previous speakers have already stressed, the whole malaise was created in the USA: Not we have packed lazy mortgage loans in securities, they have punked with the quality seal of rating agencies and provided them with the beautiful name Asset Backed Securities, but the USA has done all that. Moreover, all this has not caused our policy, but the excessive private and public debt of the USA, the imbalance between the USA and China. Mr Cap! Social market economy is a bit different from what is happening in the USA. Can we agree on that? - Okay. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] One thing I have to say, ladies and gentlemen: I am firmly convinced that what is happening worldwide is the biggest financial and economic challenge in recent decades. If Alan Greenspan, the former head of the U.S. central bank – with his policy of cheap money itself – has not said quite innocently – something like this happens every 80 to 100 years, and if British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has said he demands a new Bretton Woods, this shows the very historical dimension of the whole malaise. In 1944, Bretton Woods set the course for the world financial system after World War II. And even if only yesterday again, it has already been mentioned, World Financial Summit – not just one but several! – were announced, so this really shows the drama of the situation in which we are. But, ladies and gentlemen, every crisis is also an opportunity, especially for politics, and I have to say honestly, I thank the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor. If this government, allow me this remark, had worked in the last two years as it had in the last two weeks, we would probably have been able to save ourselves a lot. It is an opportunity for policy because it has been demonstrated to be actionable, and also at European level. I'll give it to you. At the beginning it was one, we say now, very preoccupied, late launch – there were horror seconds that lasted a very long time – but at the end the EU demonstrated its full capacity to act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] I am with German Chancellor Gusenbauer, when he, as I have read recently in the newspaper, says that Austria cannot separate itself from Europe, that we should be glad that we have the ECOFIN, the euro and the European Union and that none of us should have imagined what it would have been like if we had not the EU, the ECOFIN and the euro. I am also of the opinion of Hannes Androsch, who recently said that we need more Europe and no less Europe. – This, too, has proved this world financial crisis, ladies and gentlemen! A crisis is always an opportunity, and I look at Mr Cap again, because I have to say honestly, I have the impression that through your entire speech the following goes like a red thread: Forward comrades, we have to get back! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – It was already a “retro speech” that you have kept here, despite the interpretation of Mr Faymann; but only the word by Faymann has shown that an interpretation was necessary. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless: Forward comrades, we have to go back! is not the concept of the future that we can agree on, Mr Cap! One thing I would like to say, and this has been stressed very strongly by Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, and we have always known ourselves as supporters of the social market economy – a market economy with social responsibility or an eco-social market economy, one with ecological and social responsibility: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But that's where you need the state to do it!]] A market economy needs first rules of play, second transparency... – Then we are once again of an opinion, but large parts of your speech, Mr. Cap, were already a bit... – Well. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I said that!]] So we need rules of play, we need transparency and we need supervision, no question at all. This is the concept that we draw as a lesson from it. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The word “Sustainability” did not please!]] Every crisis is an opportunity, as Mr Vice-Chancellor has already mentioned. [[Abg. May. Worm:... a crisis in order to be failed?- Oh, my God!]] – A month ago, it was totally unrealistic to think of a European financial market surveillance system; today this is the last state of the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But is this possible without crisis?- Oh, my God!]] The next topic, Mrs Lunacek, concerns one of your “right” hobbies, the financial transaction tax: Even as unrealistic as one or two years ago, this is certainly not anymore. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: And why did you... Did you notice?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, a crisis is also a chance to rethink. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is this possible without crisis, without annihilation of wealth?- Oh, my God!]] . I do not know if Mr Haberzettl is in the room. I have read with great approval that he meant that a financial transaction tax was far worse than an asset growth tax. – I can only say: Completely right! We should not tax property, we should tax speculation! That's right, Mr Haberzettl! Complementary to this rethinking process, which was also triggered by this crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I know the statements from the SPÖ sector, which have affected the growth tax, before this crisis – contrary to property, against the family, against the mid-term, and now those on the financial transaction tax. We can certainly continue to talk about this in the future, Mr Cap. One more thing, my own. Ladies and gentlemen: Of course, this crisis – once again: not with us, but in the United States, de facto caused by these lazy mortgage loans on a regulated market of mortgages that were then shipped worldwide – is quite frightening, because one sees how small the world has become, and how much the whole world is connected, and this, of course, requires new answers. If I have spoken of a European financial market surveillance, of course there is also a need for a close-up with the US, but a close-up is not in the sense that we are doing the same thing as in the past, as the Americans are doing, but rather, we are showing the Americans how to do it. The examples were mentioned: We need to revise Basel II, we need to revise the accounting guidelines – loud things that we have believed that what the US is doing is happening and right, and now we are insisting that exactly the opposite is the case, and today the US is looking at Europe, what we are doing here. So, overall, I think, we can say that every crisis is also an opportunity – a chance, especially for politics, an opportunity for every government, even for Parliament. I also thank you as the chairman of the Financial Committee for the really constructive discussions: We have built in many suggestions that we received from the opposition on Friday during an informal conversation over the weekend. I agree with the Minister for Finance: As the chairman of the Committee on Finance, I will continue these informal discussions, which have existed in recent years, even in the future, because they show that one can work very constructively here. – In this sense: Another good cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2906	Next, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. 8 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2927	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Very much appreciated members of the government on the bank! High house! I first come to the point of putting forward motions for resolutions, and then to the vote. I am therefore submitting the following request regarding Cross Border Leasing, because it is obvious that the Cross Border Leasing ratios, which have been entered in mass, may also lead to a problem: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second motion for a resolution tabled by our club, Mr Strache, on criminal responsibility of criminal banking and financial services managers, reads as follows: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Justice, is invited to take all appropriate measures to ensure the criminal responsibility of criminal banking and financial services managers. A government template providing for intervention and regress into the already paid income of such persons shall be forwarded to the National Council without delay." Now to the price: It is of course true that – it has already been stressed several times – the alternative state necessity has also led us to participate to the best of our strengths here, and so we contribute to this protection package. Although some points have not come to such an end, nevertheless, it has been advised and driven so far by efforts by all parties involved that we as the Freedom Party are fully in line with the package – voluntarily, even if appropriate criticism points would have their rights. Mr Cap, allow me to say that you have spoken very strongly about the famous "red cat" here and so to speak, let them cross the government bank. That cannot be contradicted! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – In our conviction, it is still “as much private as possible and as much state as necessary” to be introduced and maintained as the right model, but because more state is needed in this situation, we carry this model that we want to decide today. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] It is not about a socialist retro perspective, that “state” is beautiful and “private” leads to misery, but about the exact devastation of both elements, and that the private-controlled economy is put to the side that the abuse and espionage at the expense of others is not possible, is the commandment of the hour. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A little trip to history: Maggie Thatcher has often been shocked, but from your side probably because she has a really historical merit: It has broken the abuse of power by the trade unions in England – I can remind you that when painting or tapesting a room a wallpaperer for trade union protection reasons was not allowed to nail three meters of floor slats, the ground lattice union stood ready; apart from that in England it was so, we still know too well that political strikes in particular led the coal workers to the edge of governance – otherwise their success would not have been possible. However, it is not a guide to what we are planning, but the systems are too different. I repeat: As much state as necessary, as much private as possible. This also does not contradict the fact that the third pillar is not a sensible approach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] – Of course, it is right what Minister Faymann said that one should have his retirement with the state pension, no question. The third pillar is a supplement model! The first pillar, the state pension, is based on the pay system, while the third pillar is actually a savings model. Sad enough that likely many have to suffer a breakdown in the success of their production. It is also very common, of course, to have a "weapon instrumentarium" in terms of arithmetic. It is blamed on the terms in progress, or they are called illegitimate, because of which an article by Mr. Sloterdijk, which can be read in the current “profile” has been seen in a positive way. It states that the so-called capitalism is the indispensable partner of the tax state, because it presupposes a thriving property economy. – And this is the central truth: It needs a thriving property economy. It's about this "blood cycle" – by the way, a term that the French economist Quesnay used in the 18th century. We must protect this cycle by the century. And for all viewers at home: We do not “move” the banks into the money, but we provide a framework of liability to protect private deposits – that is the big difference! We protect the private interests of the citizens of this country by providing this volume of liability, and it depends on that. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e2998	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3259	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. 8 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3296	Mr President. If a house burns, you have to do a few things. First of all, you have to drive and delete, you have to ensure that no panic breaks out, you have to ensure that the fire does not break into other neighboring houses, and finally, after the fire has been removed, you have to evaluate the damage and ask yourself: What can we do better in the future so that such a fire does not occur at all, and if it has already come about that it does not grow that big? – And that’s exactly what we should do here, and that’s what we do. The first thing we do is to prevent panic by clarifying: Bank deposits are safe; deposit protection, regardless of the amount, is provided by the existing security systems or by the Republic of Austria. That means you don't need to panic. The second is that we are deleting and providing extinguishing water by looking at the fact that, so to speak, the waste water can flow again or that banking works. It's important that we say: If a bank is in need, there's money to save it. But all of this is not free; if banks use liability or guarantees, they have to pay for it. We must also say: If a bank is in need and needs money, this is linked to clear conditions of the taxpayer as well as to property law. This means that the State can support business policy, dividend distribution and management remuneration. This also means that the State can demand interest when it comes to own resources loans. That's the first step. He needs to be made, and we're making him today. And that's good. Further: It is necessary to prevent the flames from moving to other areas, in this case to the real economy. This is something we are not doing today, but something we have to do and will probably do next week on Tuesday, because it is just as crucial and as important as we are doing today. We must pay attention to two essential things in a single economic package. First of all, we must ensure that the economy continues to invest and create jobs. We need to create incentives, which is a question of which instrument we use. There must be incentives for companies to invest in Austria, but not if they invest abroad, but if they invest domestically and create and secure jobs in the country. One has to agree on what kind of promotion one chooses – whether for degressive depreciation models or whatever – one has to agree on a model, but that needs to be promoted. The second, namely the big worry child of our economic development – not just for today or for a few days, but for a few years – is domestic consumption. This means that we need to strengthen domestic demand and that our economic package strengthens mass purchasing power, so that people with small and medium incomes have more money in their pockets so that we can also maintain this cycle in the economy. Just as important as the deletion today is to prevent the transition to the real economy. This means that through an economic package – and perhaps not only through one but through several economic packages – we also protect the real economy, the people and the jobs in that country, and not only see that the banks do not collapse. The third thing we have to do is to learn from what happened. The answers are quite clear: First: The problem is a lack of regulation. It may already be that in the USA the real estate market is regulated, but the credit market is not regulated. And that's exactly what happened: Loans have been granted, this market is completely unregulated, and from there this crisis has begun. Where there was no regulation, the beginning of the crisis. The second was the investment banks. This market is hardly regulated, and the second stage in the whole crisis – after the subprime crisis – was the investment banks. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: In the USA!]] The third – even in the USA – hardly regulated area is the area of rating agencies. This is the third step in this whole crisis. The answer can therefore only be: Regulation, regulation, regulation – where it is missing and where it is necessary. The second is, of course, supervision, and the third is, of course, control, these are the guidelines that we need. Not deregulation is the answer, as it was heard a few days and weeks ago, but regulation, supervision and control. Not self-obligation, but state supervision, state and legal regulation, which are really the steps we need to learn from it. The next point – because this issue has already been addressed briefly today – is the growth tax. What's this about? This is about the fact that there are different kinds and ways to make money. On the one hand, stock speculation can make money and thus obtain income. For example, if you earn € 50 000 a year as a house number, you pay zero euros in taxes after a year - after the speculation period. You can earn €50,000 if you have a lot of money and you have dividends or interest income. Then today you pay for an annual income of €50 000, €12 500 in taxes. If you own an interest-rate house, you rent it and thus get an income of €50,000, you also pay taxes, namely about € 18 000 to € 21,000 – depending on what the tax conditions are. You can also earn this money by going to work. Only these 50 000 € will be charged with 33 000 euros of taxes and taxes! In our entire tax system, it can only be done if we reduce taxes on work on the one hand and, on the other hand, where there is no tax or no tax, we see that these people also make their fair contribution. That is what this question is about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's about justice in the tax system and not anything that is anti-performance, because – apologise, please – what's the highest performance? – This is when someone goes to work for money, and not when someone is referring to an unemployed income! In fact, the tax system, as it is now, is anti-performance – that is, hostile to those who earn their money through work and not through pensions or the like. It is a question of making our tax system more efficient and of making it fair. For this we will use the guarantee! The second question is how a business package does not work: It scared me when I read that the Freedom Party requires one-off payment instead of percentage increase in wage negotiations. It can't be that we only have one-time payments and no permanent percentage increases! I would ask that the Freedom Party take a position on this and clear these things. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In addition!]] One last word on pension provision. Yes, the provision of the future is now outdated, but it is urgently in need of repair. Very, very serious mistakes occurred when this was designed by bowls and grassers at the time. This is a system that cannot work and needs to be repaired. It is also clear: Sure is the state pension. The prospect of the future is a completely uncertain instrument. Our task is to secure the state pension because it is viable.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3404	Mr Bucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3427	Mr President. Representatives of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The analysis of the banking and financial market crisis is, I believe, quite clear and unanimous. However, there are different approaches to the causes of this crisis. If today, for example, it is said by the SPÖ or by the ÖVP that we have God thanks the European Union and thank God for the mechanisms of the European Union to be the master of this financial crisis, then I would remind you that we had completely different assumptions in 2005 with the introduction of Basel II and certainly the USA went on the glue – I am saying that now so salopp. What happened? The US has imposed more stringent credit protection directives on Europeans, however recommended, and the Europeans have implemented them immediately in their superiority. The result was that a lot of capital, surplus liquidity was deducted from the real economy and placed on the international financial and speculation market. This has led to a much worse access to loans, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. This has also led banks to have to deduct a lot of money because the US rating agencies have recommended this to these banks. I think it is very worrying if we trust this American financial dog à la Greenspan, Paulson et cetera too much. That cost us a lot of money. Up to a certain proportion, ladies and gentlemen, we have co-financed economic growth in the US, namely European countries, European financial institutions and European Union investors. I think that's worth mentioning. We should also criticise this on a European basis, namely that we were far too little in mind to recognize and analyse the whole context properly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Since today the “social market economy” has been mentioned: We have to admit, honestly, that this is no longer the case in many respects and that the social market economy has in one case or another gone out of the joints. I'm just thinking about the interest rate. If the European Central Bank lowers interest rates, you will notice that when you have loans to serve, when you will then receive these declining loans – much, much later, often days, yes, weeks later. And these “between rooms” of course use the banking institutions to improve their liquidity. The same happens in the fuel sector, in the crude oil sector: When oil prices fall in Rotterdam, it takes time for us to feel it on the taps. – This is not a self-understanding of the social market economy, ladies and gentlemen, and we should also ask whether it is not a regulation that requires mechanisms from the state in order not to let this development be sanded but to point it out and to use the lever so that the people, the citizens of our country can feel these benefits. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have tabled an amendment tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues to the report of the Financial Committee, which has been distributed, and I hope that all the political groups have already received it. It is a request concerning the authorisation of the Minister of Finance to deal with the banking and financial crisis. With this request, we have a number of proposals, proposals which have also been partially included in the Government's draft, namely the transparency of manager salaries, with regard to credit ratings, with regard to dividend distribution, profit advances et cetera. We are indeed responsible, as I believe, to the citizens, to taxpayers and taxpayers in relation to the provision of the huge capital of €100 billion, and we must ensure that these funds are used in a targeted, transparent and fair manner. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, in this amendment, we have also called for a co-operation committee to be set up here, a co-operation committee to ensure that these funds arrive where they are needed, and that, for example, financial market supervision is strengthened. From the Banking Investigation Committee, we have learned that in Austria we need to catch up that the rules of financial supervision in Austria do not work 100%. There is still a red and black thinking: the red note bank and the black financial market supervision. I believe that we should proceed if there is already a five-party consensus today that we want to have better structured financial supervision in Austria in the future, to install a red-and-white-red financial market supervision in Austria – and not one that is co-determined by parties. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have kept track of the Banking Investigation Committee, namely in the reports we have presented on the part of the BZÖ, that it is important that we have a networked pan-financial market supervision in Europe, because the financial conglomerates and the different securities themselves are no longer analytical for banks and for the individual portfolio managers and therefore no longer clearly express what is actually in these financial products. We also want to report to our protest what this clearing site is about to do. We have made the following proposal: We would like these €75 billion, so to speak, not to be placed under the umbrella of the Austrian Control Bank, but to have in this context a government fund that distributes these €75 billion – and it is not in the revenge of the banks. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the Austrian system banks are involved in the Austrian Control Bank. – That would therefore be a fairer, more transparent and responsible way of dealing with the means of taxation, as we have proposed, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This bank rescue package is undoubtedly important, but we must not ignore that we have not only a financial market crisis and a confidence crisis, but that we are moving towards a recession. In order to avoid economic downturn, we urgently need an economic recovery package, a medium-sized fund, but at least a tax reduction to ensure that citizens again have more incomes that go into consumption, which in general gives the economy more income and growth. I ask the Federal Government, as soon as possible – at least until the 28th century. October – to present such a package so that a recession can be averted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3546	The amendment tabled by Mr Bucher is sufficiently supported; it has been explained in the key points and will be explained for its scope in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3667	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. Maximum speaking time: Six minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3688	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The last few weeks have shown us clearly what happens to markets that are completely detached: They are not self-regulatory, but they are destroying themselves. itself – and it is therefore quite clear that these turbulences can also affect healthy economies. The banks, even though still so strong and solid – such as Austrian banks for example – of course also suffer from the mutual mistrust that has now arisen. What does that mean for the economy? What does that mean for people? – This means that small and medium-sized enterprises are getting increasingly difficult and less credit and that they cannot invest in future jobs. For those people who have always worked hard and, for example, build a house, this means that they need loans, but now come even less to them. All of this will result in a weaker economic growth in the future and a tighter labour market situation. The policy is therefore called upon to oppose it with all the forces at its disposal, in the short term. And: Medium and long-term measures are necessary. This draft law is intended to protect Austrian savers as well as the hard-working prosperity in Austria. This bill, which you all know, is a decision-making process, an action plan at the summit of the Heads of State or Government of the Euro countries in Paris. This action plan is a strong signal towards solidarity. In this crisis, ladies and gentlemen, the countries of Europe are united, and they have committed themselves to implementing joint and coordinated actions to curb the financial crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to be feared, however, that the Austrian economy will grow less than 1 percent in the next few years – and that means that the number of unemployed will increase. The AMS expects an increase in the unemployment rate of 11 000 people across Austria. It is now our responsibility for all of us to curb this danger. These challenges need to be met, with a lot of knowledge, a lot of commitment and experience from all of us. In this context, I would like to remind you that the social partners have recently decided at a meeting in Ischl to prepare a joint economic paper in the coming weeks and to make it available to the Federal Government. Because fast action is so important now, all the constructive forces must hold together and the common, the well-being of Austria over the parting, very valued ladies and gentlemen. We owe the people in Austria the struggle to reduce the impact of the financial crisis. As the first measure, for example, planned infrastructure packages could be preferred. This would create or maintain jobs, but at the same time also mean a meaningful investment in the Austrian economic location. However, it is also very important to take measures that are directed towards women's employment. It must not be possible for women to be used again as “economic reserve” and sent home. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, one reason for the financial crisis is that the incomes of employees have not kept pace with the profits – and as a result, purchasing power has been lost or dropped. All the more so now, in order to revitalize demand, we must also reduce wage tax as soon as possible. The financial crisis, however, is above all a crisis that extends beyond national borders. Therefore, additional measures must be taken in Austria, but also in the field of The European Union must be met and an economic package must be tied up. However, stricter rules must also be established in Europe in the context of financial markets, and these stricter rules must be applied globally. The saving of people, ladies and gentlemen, must not fall victim to the speculation of some bank managers! At European level, however, tax competition between countries must finally be terminated. Ladies and gentlemen, this package of measures in the context of the financial crisis is a first important and proper step. However, it is necessary to link these economic packages and also to learn from the past and to put in place so-called preventive measures in Austria, but also in the area of the European Union. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3776	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. 6 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3801	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs Csörgits meant that we should learn from the mistakes of the past. - Yeah, I'll give her the right thing. If only you would have done it!, I'll tell you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little surprised. You just needed to read the newspapers. 31. Years of this year: Deutsches „Handelsblatt“, bought in Berlin by me personally: ‘UBS sinks in the subprime spindle’. Or in July of this year: ‘90 U.S. banks are threatening the pleite.’ Or, ladies and gentlemen, have we already forgotten that in 1988 in America 375 billion dollars were spent on the recovery of savings banks, or that in Finland in 1991 12.8 percent of the gross social product was needed to renovate financial agencies? Or has it already been forgotten that Mexico was on the verge of pleite in 1994 or South Korea in 1997? Sometimes I wonder: Have we forgotten all of this, or what has actually happened? – Unfortunately, nothing, because you couldn't agree internationally, and that's the problem we have in principle. Dramatic measures at a dramatic time, global stabilisation measures are necessary, and we should also expressly note with all our criticism that Austria's banks, Austria's economy, are in a better position and we should also be happy about this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In total, however, the question arises: What lessons do you draw from this crisis? And if it is true that every crisis is also an opportunity, then we should see the opportunity to prevent such financial earthquakes in the future, every chance! We have an Americanization of the accounting rules, we or very many bank managers have been proud and have preached this as the nonplusultra, the assessment by a credit rating agency. American ratings have been excellent if I imagine that just a few days before Lehman Brothers went into bankruptcy, you still have Double A, that is, the second highest credit rating. Ladies and gentlemen! The Americans have us, it has already been carried out, putting Basel II on the eye. Europe was excited about it. All the warnings of the bankers also in this house have not yielded anything, but it was almost so that Austria also fell to its knees at Basel II, because it is very important to implement it. Ladies and gentlemen! What else is there for a possibility? Recently, a great advertising was in the newspaper “Der Standard”, I do not advertise it for the Icelandic Kaupthing Bank, full-page percent, percent, percent. And stand back, that's only the beginning. – Yes, the beginning of the end, you should be involved today, ladies and gentlemen. A savings book has been a little earlier, an examination of Austria too little, rating was important. And what happened? - That's what you see. Ladies and gentlemen, what opportunity is there to prevent sales of empty in the long term, not only temporarily? That would also be interesting once, interesting also in the context of these global networks. Today there is nothing more to be heard of national measures. Today, everyone is calling for international help. Yes, we also need it, it is also necessary, especially for a particular group. If Mr Bucher – I very much appreciate him – said that there was a red and black bank supervision, National Bank, FMA and so on, I would like to ask him: What about the blue Hypo Alpe Adria, which is not just a part of Carinthia? That would be interesting, too. How much have you had to correct today? That would also be a question, ladies and gentlemen. One thing will be necessary in the future: greater transparency and as much control as necessary and as much responsibility as possible. If today, and rightly in these days, the disproportionately high gigs of bank managers are critically illuminated, then I must say: Yes, this is an advantage, but there are also supervisory councils that bear responsibility for it. They do the contracts with these gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This aftershock in the financial world is going to shake us for a long time. That can't be! Where was German banking supervision in recent years? German banks have explained to the ailing world in Europe that they would return the small and medium-sized industries to the market because they could be presented differently in America. What's left, ladies and gentlemen? – Finally, a huge problem, just a financial mass grave, one would regret to say. Thank you, in fact, to the Federal Minister, the Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and, above all, the Governor of the National Bank, who has done excellent work with their staff in these days. And I also claim that Austria has responded perfectly in connection with the European Union. But I would like you not only to be introduced to America, but also to think about the world's currency reserves, which have already taken over 1,800 billion in China, and the Americans have a total of only about 45. You should take a look at that, too. It will therefore also be necessary to take action with the involvement of these players. I am convinced that on the Raiffeisen sector, no one will benefit from the 15 billion € nuclear capital package. It is important that this aid package is also a psychological measure, a shield because it will help to calm the money and capital market. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hope that the taxpayer will be held accountable. And with this, my final sentence, ladies and gentlemen: It would also be to consider whether it would be advantageous to recover the BAWAG from Cerberus and whether it would not be necessary to bring the Bank Austria back from Milan. If banks are in the foreign sphere of influence, it is not absolutely certain that they are excellent The first thing is to think about your own countries and then about Austria. - We don't think so.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3898	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 6 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e3919	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer, I would not be so sure that Raiffeisen does not have to use any guarantees or State resources. At least on the rumour exchange you hear different. [[Listen, listen, call at the SPÖ.]] Let's go back here, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. What about the emergence of this global financial crisis? Haven't there been warnings, a variety of warnings, from Soros to Schiller and Stiglitz and what they all call? - Put everything in the wind! All the rules in the international financial markets were not questioned, from complex financial instruments that shot out of the ground like the Schwammerl, to the credit rating agencies that made this entire speculation bubble possible at first, this game casino mentality that was created there. Finally, people have slept, globally, nationally, but also at European level, since the outbreak of the subprime crisis in August 2007. Nothing has happened, even in Austria! And now let's hide back: Who has it been in recent years, who has jumped on the train of deregulation on the financial markets in Austria? Was this not the ÖVP, which, for example, abolished the exchange rate tax in 2000, an instrument in small, what we are today largely discussing in connection with the financial transaction tax? Who was it that drove people into the second and third pillars? Wasn't that the ÖVP? – Yes, that was the ÖVP that preached to all of us the unfinancing of the pension insurance system until vomiting. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] People were then driven into the second and third pillars with tax subsidies. Let us look, Minister of Finance, at what happened to these people who are dependent on these pensions today! – Losses of up to 25 percent in their pensions and pension entitlements, not included in the year 2008. And who is the one who has failed in recent years to push forward what the Greens have repeatedly forced to introduce a tobin tax and, more recently, the financial transaction tax at European level? – That was you again, Minister of Finance, or your predecessor! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: This is simple and simply wrong!]] Why do we not have this at the European level yet? How far are we with the introduction of a financial transaction tax? In January, you propagated her, but de facto nothing happened. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Who started the discussion?]] A rehabilitation package is necessary, that is already out of question. Necessary, if we decide on a rehabilitation package, there are also clear conditions, clear conditions, and I miss these clear conditions in this package. There is a regulatory authority for the Minister of Finance, but from this one can read little about the manager remuneration, in terms of management liability, in terms of dividend policy – yes, yes, you can read all of this, you know all this, I know; [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] You know nothing, I tell you –, in terms of business policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Let us consider what the Minister of Finance will do if Mr Meinl is soon looking for a state guarantee! I don't know, but it would be possible. What will the Minister of Finance do? I can't read anything from the government's documents, but I can't read anything at all. In order to be able to provide a small replenishment in terms of manager remuneration and management liability, I submit the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] As in this motion for a resolution, it is necessary to clarify the point in the bill as to how this regulation should be interpreted. In reality, we need this regulation today so that we can decide seriously how the conditions for the use of guarantees on the one hand and for the use of state aid on the other hand should look. So it's essentially a blank check for the Minister of Finance, and that can't be it. But it can't be that the little people stay out there, those little people, those house builders who have been driven into foreign currency credits and who today face increased collateral on the one hand or even the default of loans. Here I miss measures. One of my previous speakers, Van der Bellen, has already tabled a motion for a resolution. This also applies, of course, to SMEs, which are in a very similar situation. SMEs may also face the provision of additional security. However, they are also faced with the problem that they may in future have higher interest rates for the financing of real investment projects – these are important – on these matters. And last but not least, this package ignores the rules of the game that have been introduced into this chaos. If not, then nothing will change in this overall system. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4031	Mr Magistrate. The motion for a resolution tabled by Rossmann is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4107	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. 6 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4128	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, we are always accused of being EU-critical, specifically you do so by the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP: Be you too!]] And as we see today, right. Mr Dr. Stummful and also colleague Auer stressed what we got from America. And when we remember: In 2001, we had similar cases; not to this extent – you know that. [[Call to the ÖVP: America does not belong to the EU!]] Yes, but you know that the EU has learned nothing from it, because we are unconditionally committed to the Americans, and above all you, as so-called economic experts or self-appointed economic experts, have done so over and over again. And the EU has not learned anything from it, it has not managed to stand on its own feet and react accordingly in such crises. Mr. Jakob Auer has said that Basel II has also brought us to the attention of the Americans, and then also admitted that they have not kept themselves at all, and we are now in the fatal situation that our small and medium-sized enterprises are no longer getting money, because the banks are no longer willing to make money on the basis of Basel II. That's the point! The Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor said very correctly today: Today, we decide on this package in order to regain and regain confidence in the Austrian banking centre and, of course, also the savers, to calm the many savers accordingly and to show them that, of course, the Republic of Austria and this Federal Government will be against the fact that security is also given. But what they don't say is that there are many, many thousand in this country that really must be glad that they get over the rounds with their wages at all. That is to say, we have thousands of workers and employees in this country, even a lot of Austrians who do not have the opportunity to make savings. They're not being helped at all. And what you have announced today, but what has not occurred in any of the speeches of the many Members here is that of course we see an economic problem coming to mind. You know, in this financial crisis, in which we decide a package here today, we are forced to react because it has hit us in full weight. The economic crisis is already recognizable in Austria in roll-in and sub-areas. If you know today that the German car industry is already drastically backing production and that many Austrian companies are affected, you could still operate here. But I have not heard from you that, at the same time as this bank package, with immediate effect, tax relief must be started and, of course, small and medium-sized enterprises should be strengthened accordingly. Then you could counter it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have had a high level of economic activity over the last two years, but you have not been able to produce a zero deficit, and you have not been able to prefer tax reform accordingly. We are now talking about an advantage to the tax reform, but this remains in motion. I have not heard a request here when it is supposed to be, and how you want to act in order to remedy the economic crisis in order to give people and small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to survive. If you have heard reports in recent days that large businesses in Austria are putting hundreds of employees at short notice, then you have to realize that this is a very tragic case for these employees because they have to purchase income losses. But they have at least the guarantee that they will perhaps be able to do their job again in two or three months. But what you never say about it is the fact that many large companies in Austria are supplied by thousands of subcontractors to SMEs. These are small and medium-sized enterprises that are losing short-term supply contracts, but cannot afford to put five out of ten employees at short notice, but they are forced to separate themselves from employees. And you'll see, if you don't act here right away, then in the next half year an unemployment wave will come to us that has washed. And I'll warn you about that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since I know how the Federal Government has worked over the last two years and it is not expected that this will change in the near future, we are bringing in a motion for a resolution where you can show that you want to act here as soon as possible and perhaps want to help dispel this economic crisis. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Show courage, my Ladies and gentlemen! You can counter this. A banking package and a bank rescue package alone are too little to cope with the forthcoming crisis in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4225	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4304	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Maximum speaking time: Six minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4336	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There have already been statements by Members like: They all say the same thing! – I say: Let us be glad that we here in Parliament today have a consensus on this difficult question, that we want to deal with this financial crisis together, that both government parties and opposition parties are committed to this responsibility, because ultimately we are also in favour of tax money – € 100 billion in taxpayers' money! – to ensure that the damage caused by speculators does not ultimately fall back on the small savers and borrowers. And this should be expressed very clearly and clearly on that day too. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The European Union has been praised. – Yes, I also believe it is important to show that a global crisis is also to be addressed through mergers and the cohesion of organisations. However, it has to be said critically that the European Union has taken a very long time to respond. We had already expected a few weeks ago to try together to take the necessary measures to address this crisis that has spread from America to Europe. In Austria we now link a 100-billion-€ package. As I said, We're on this too! However, we must also point out some peculiarities here, namely, to be critical. Of these 100 billion, 75 billion, i.e. three-quarters, are used to cope with a crisis of confidence within banks or between banks. That is to say, Mr Bank Directors, who are otherwise always seen together in sad condolences on the beautiful receptions, suddenly distrust each other. And the saver and the borrower, i.e. the taxpayer, we should all now have this confidence. With 75 billion euros in response to the crisis! I only hope that just these bank directors and the banks as a whole will keep this in mind when it comes to reminding the borrowers – including the small creditors – of additional collateral or of making loans due because of what they themselves have caused. Of course, the borrower must be liable for his own risk, even if he may no longer have income to serve the credit because he has lost his job. The fact that he also has to be liable for the fact that the bank or the banks with which he has received the loan are not properly dealing with the respective funds is certainly not acceptable, even if we stand for it, namely, all of us – all Austrians! – at €75 billion! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The safety of savers is of course also important. There must be confidence here, but there must also be lessons for the future. And now what's going on with me – a few speakers have talked about it, especially about the opposition – is control. And there it has become very quiet in all this discussion. This is a bit strange, because when we – I remember exactly – talked about a state liability for a bank in the House the last time we talked about a state liability for a bank, namely at the BAWAG – and there should be nothing beautiful – we also made clear demands, and since it was a much less liability. But that's where we made clear demands, so everything had to be revealed. There have been audit committees, there have been very strict requirements, and Parliament has also been involved. - Now we don't hear about it! I believe that the Committee on Cooperation, which we have called for from the BZÖ, has an important task, in the form that we as representatives of the people – and this can be kept confidential; I also believe that this should not all be tied to the big bell, clinging to the principle of trust – can help to ensure that there is a proper control of what is happening here with the funds, also in the Austrian banking landscape. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Cap, you have said that various financial instruments are wrong here. – We have also helped a union union to remain stable. I think we did not question the employee representation at the time only because a few trade union officials speculated with foreign money. Again, don't let the child be thrown out with the bath. I do not think it is responsible to question pension funds in a slightly Marxist manner, for example. Of course, the first pillar, the state pillar, is important, and it should also be the most important pillar for the future. Nevertheless, we know that it will be important for 20, 30 years, but also to keep the second and third pillars high. And: Unlimited freedom is not what we want! Freedom also needs restrictions, freedom also needs control. That is what we should do – now also with the banks, also with the pension funds, and also with regard to the future, when it comes to such financial structures, but not in a Marxist way to question the system in principle! We need freedom of the economy, also freedom of the financial economy, but also clear control and clear sanctions when abuse is carried out here. That's why it should be today! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What I do not want is that this crisis is now being taken as an argument for the fact that there must be no change in Austria and that this great coalition, as I have heard, is now cemented. Today is the best Example: When it comes to showing responsibility, we take unanimous decisions here. So: That cannot be the reason for a great coalition of the future! If there are other reasons, then put them on the table here. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Perhaps you just don't want to have control, which would be necessary if there were other coalition variants.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4453	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speech. Your maximum speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4474	Mr President. Estimated members on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strasser... – Mr Scheibner, please excuse me. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Freedom without frontiers leads us to where we now stand, namely to renovate the financial system. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He didn't say that!]] And if our clubman Cap today meant that we have to secure pensions and, above all, occupational pensions, something where employers' and employees' money flows in, so to speak, state insurance, then this is far from a social policy – as you have said: Retro perspective?; no, Mr President, this is stupid, but you are also telling the same thing, just in other words – that is, it is not a social-political retrospective perspective, but it is exactly what people expect from us, namely to ensure existence. [[Abg. Strache: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] On the one hand, we secure the financial system, but on the other hand we must also help people to secure their existence. I would like to stress this once again, so that this does not go down so easily. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to point out the current labour market situation, something I was able to experience last week, and I do not want to abstain from it either. Our Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer has already said today that small and medium-sized enterprises are not getting the necessary money and that dramatic signals are recognizable. That's it! I come from the district of Braunau, a district active in the automotive sector. This very automotive sector has noticed very massively and very quickly how this financial situation affects our real economy. I would like to give you a few examples, just so you know what we're talking about and why we're doing this today. It is a total of nine companies that were at the AMS in one day and have collected information. And I'll tell you what size the companies have: 450 persons employed; Producer of automotive connections: Since Monday, 6. October over night Deduction of two thirds of total order production! We're talking about 450 employees, and: The end is not foreseeable according to the managing director. The second company: 420 employees, as well as automotive suppliers: Infringement of orders by one third to the second quarter. Follow: Workers' announcements are expected at the end of October, namely 50 to 60 in production and, in particular, 20 to 25 in administration and research. The third company: 140 employees, suppliers also in the automotive sector: from 110 percent order situation minus 40 percent capacity overhang overnight! That is, even this company has lost rapid orders. Another company with 35 employees: Two-digit order decreases. And only today: In a company with 35 employees job losses of minus 40 percent! So real consequences of irrational banking – I think we all agree in that – irrational banking operations, namely air operations. And so that it doesn't happen anymore, we all gathered here today to eject appropriate rescue anchors. We have to give security to people and businesses – and we have to see that already – so that they can be expected to get money again, to be able to operate accordingly and to award orders again. I hope we don't have to ask ourselves the question: What's going on? No one has said that either. We all have to be very careful that at least at EU level the sensors are extended so far in order to be able to intervene as quickly as possible. What we need next is a business package that makes people hope for work again. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I have heard today from the debtor's advice that the number of people who work, but who can no longer secure the cost of living with their wages, and that is, we need appropriate jobs to ensure that these people are also cared for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4549	The next speaker is Mr Amon. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4571	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler said today in his contribution to the debate that the Greens do not make approval of today's package easy. – I believe that this applies to all of us – and I would like to say that clearly – because this is a very comprehensive package that, in full consequence, can have very dramatic consequences, of course. Nevertheless – and I think this is already a very good thing – all political groups have equally assessed the seriousness of the situation and are therefore of the unanimous opinion that there is no alternative to this package. It is also good that there is an amendment that allows the Federal Minister of Finance, in agreement with the Federal Chancellor, to provide for arrangements in order to be able, if money and credit institutions use support, to influence business policy orientations accordingly, to influence the use of the funds allocated, to regulate the remuneration of their institutions, to regulate own resources, to regulate the distribution of dividends and also to require measures to maintain jobs in, for example, those monetary institutions. I believe that this is a very wise amendment, which is also important, so that the one who at the end, should become serious, should ultimately pay the token, namely the taxpayer, has a certain degree of security that the Republic can influence here. However, I would also like to address a few of the arguments raised by previous speakers because, in fact, the debate here does not mean that the child should be thrown out with the bath. It has been assumed to us that the ÖVP would have driven people into the second and third pillars of the pension system. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I would like to oppose this very strongly! We have always said that the second and third pillars are complementary to the state system and can make sense as a complement to the state system. Moreover, one should not pretend to be able to guarantee the full guarantee of a state system. State pension systems have also gone bankrupt – think about Chile! That is why it is also so important to review the pension and social system over and over again, so that it can be financed so that it stands on safe legs, ensuring a balance between those who are in retirement and who have a legitimate right to their pension, and those who are in employment and who have to finance it. It has also been criticised in some kind of debate. I would also like to say that: According to the old processing system – estimates by the Chamber of Workers – only 15 percent of people had any claim at all, according to the new system of processing already more than any second worker has a claim. [[Abg. Oils: A tiny...!]] – Mr Oellinger, he may be smaller at the moment – it is also criticised by the handling funds for relatively short time; three years of minimum presumption, which is criticised, because of the very fact that this also poses an increased risk – yet more than 50 percent of all workers today have a claim under this title; earlier it was 15 percent. The system is therefore, I believe, inappropriate and not correct. [[Abg. Oillinger: You should have done it differently!]] I would also like to oppose Mr Cap, who has already conspired to Mr Maynard Keynes. – That is why Keynes, because he was born the idea of Deficit Donating, I would like to accept it: That alone is not enough! Maynard Keynes was – and this should also be mentioned – a conservative MP in the British House – by the way an interesting economic philosopher – and only because he had the idea of the Deficit Donding in times of recession to take part in social democracy is a bit simple, because the problem of social democracy was always that she had a donation in times of high-conjunction and then, at times of recession, the budget was too short. – This is the problem here. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter.]] My immediate predecessor, Mr Hagenhofer, also raised the issue of CO2 emissions policy. . I believe that we must also ask our own people, namely representatives of social democracy, who voted in the European Parliament a very reasonable proposal from the Committee on Industry with a view to greater flexibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4639	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4660	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the hall! Mr Aman – Mr Am o n; please apologize! – has just criticized that the ÖVP has been accused of pushing people into private pension provision. [[Call the ÖVP:Amon!]] – Mr Commissioner, that is true. They were the ones who pleaded for it, who played with the fire. They are responsible for constantly shortening the state pension system. They've made it clear to the people: Make more private, that's much better for you! That's right! There is no doubt that you are to blame for this, and you are in charge of it in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we're talking about the game with the fire: What does it look like? – Yes, it is true, it is now fire on the roof as far as the financial crisis is concerned. My colleague Kogler meant that if the whole house is in fire and burning, then you have to delete it and then you have to do it now. That is why we will also vote in favour of this law, although at second reading we are very likely to disagree with some of the points. But what is it about? Why did this fire even come about? There's only one answer to that: The system has had massive shortcomings, and since you have watched all the ÖVPs ahead, over years and decades, struck all warnings in the wind, as all that according to the motto: The free market regulates itself! have meant that they can now speculate and manage funds of which they have not even had an idea, and according to the motto: One will win, and the other will see where they stay!, have played. Some of you may remember the show by Hans-Joachim Kulenkampf – the elders still know it – “One will win”. That was a game, and someone won. For me, however, this is a symbol of how the world economy works and, as was thought in Austria, in this system: The free market regulates itself, one will win, and the others who lose should look where they stay! This system, this neoliberal anti-regulatory ideology that has ruled over the decades, has been modified so that such fires, as they are now taking place, can never happen again, ladies and gentlemen! That's necessary. This started in the 1980s, with the World Bank and Monetary Fund, Latin America and Asia crisis, where structural adjustment programmes and debt policies were simply propagated, the less state, the better, everything into private. Thus, people were massively driven into poverty. This policy must end. If French President Sarkozy now thinks that the International Monetary Fund should be reformed, I can only support it. That must finally be. This has been said not only by many Greens, but also by many others, such as the Globalisation Critical Organization Attac, for many years. As I understood Sarkozy, however, he meant that with a European financial market surveillance one could wait a little while, but one should first reform the IMF. So, ladies and gentlemen of the still-government – and I am also addressing the future government – to wait for the IMF to be reformed, sounds a bit like “waiting for Godot” and the intention to do nothing myself. On the other hand, it is a requirement of the Greens to address European financial market surveillance. – This was also the case in the European Parliament, and I was very surprised that Members of the European People’s Party – including Austrians – voted against it when it came to giving the Rasmussen report exactly this European financial market surveillance. There must now be European financial market surveillance as soon as possible. It was important that first steps were taken in the Council, but that is too little, that must go faster. It must be faster to establish a common financial market supervision! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me mention another point where the Greens have succeeded in bringing it into this package, which is now being decided. It was originally intended that, in the case of equity grant or in the case of a partial nationalisation of banks, the value of such a bank has been taken as a price over the last six months. – We have insisted that the current value is taken from and not from a few months ago. – This is very important and necessary; well, that we have succeeded. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point that has already been mentioned a few times today is the financial transaction tax. I am glad when Mr von der ÖVP said that one to two years ago it was not even possible to imagine this. Ladies and gentlemen, a financial transaction tax at European level is not only imaginable today, but also necessary. Unfortunately, the current government at European level has also done far too little to support it and has not approved our proposal in the main committee at last. That is why it would be important for us before this tax at European level – unfortunately, it will take a little while – to reintroduce a stock exchange tax in Austria, just as it was until 2000 before the ÖVP put the Minister of Finance. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4765	Mrs Mag. The motion for a resolution tabled by Lunacek is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4823	The next speaker is Mr Grastaur. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4844	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! These days, in Upper Austria, letters flow into the households in which a gas price increase of 20 and 22 percent is announced. However, neither the e-control nor the competition of Minister Buchinger does anything. A few days ago, it was also possible to read in the Austrian newspapers that the ÖBB had covered approximately €300 million in financial speculation. – In reality, it is €623 million. [[Call the FPÖ: Madness! Scandal!]] The managers responsible for this will receive a corresponding settlement to ensure that they stop earlier. [[Call: Locked they belong to]] - That's right. The citizens do not understand that one is saving and securitizing when it comes to increasing the care funds or raising pensions easily, but on the other hand one has at once 100 billion € available for our so praised large banks – as a liability or aid. [[Abg. Strache: The one that is likely to be used in the near future!]] The first thing that happens: At the same time, the Constantia bank has slid into problems. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But not for that!]] And ruck-zuck have hit the big banks of Austria and bought a very profitable, good bank with good deposits for a euro. – € 400 million is the guarantee that the State will have to spend on paying the taxpayer. These are things that the citizens do not understand, because there is something totally separate. What the subject of Constantia is still in itself is that the financial funds of the Fries Group were thus secured, which is also not to be understood. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: That's not true!]] It is certain that the Freedom Party has always pointed out weaknesses in the system and continues to do so. Just think of the financial market supervision in connection with the BAWAG scandal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to speak to the honourable Member. Amon is right in saying that something has to happen in the area of pension funds, but I am missing out on these actions by the ÖVP. We are doing something in this direction, because it is already fixed that the target size of pension funds is missed by 30 percent and the inflation rate is not reached. At the latest by the financial crisis, it has become clear that urgent action is needed. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e4952	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5031	The next speaker is Mr Schalle. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5053	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Today, errors of bankers and financial service providers are corrected with taxpayers' money. Dear Mr. Stummful – he is not here now – when you point to the USA, I must say, of course, there are always two of them: one who sells, but also one who buys; he also bears responsibility to check this carefully and not to buy the cat in the bag. Today, we are adopting a package of measures to ensure the stability of the Marod Austrian financial market with a total of €100 billion. Mr. Finance Minister, the banks must pay. - Okay. But you also have to say what they pay for and how much they have to pay for. - You have remained completely guilty to us. The €100 billion is a very high amount in European comparison, considering that we are taking in two and a half times more funds than Germany, where in the meantime two or three large financial service providers have already been severely affected. If we link such a large package of liability to other countries, I wonder whether the Federal Government already knows more about the actual situation of the local banks than we know or need to know here. [[Abg. Strache: In the next few days we'll find out, won't we?]] Dear Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! I ask you the question: Why is the sum so disproportionately high? Is there such a great need that we know nothing about? Or do you keep it like Mr Bundeskanzler, who has just said that it is all right that everything should be assured that there are no problems that no package of measures is necessary or necessary? – Give us here and now pure wine, and place the cards openly on the table! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] You don't have to look at the US or Europe. Let's just stay here in Austria. The supervisory authorities have also failed on all lines and are jointly responsible for the fact that it has come so far at all. It is not only the board of directors who have to be held responsible, but also the auditors, auditors, revision organisations and, above all, the FMA have totally failed. Mr Finanzminister, it is of course a matter of revenge once again if you occupy the FMA politically and not professionally! – This has led to a disaster. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] In my opinion, we need no more control, but a better quality control. It doesn't stop with the supervisory authorities. Look The newspaper reports of the last days are as follows: The ÖBB speculates €600 million and has no money for repairing its wagons. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: A scandal!]] AUVA is losing money – probably more than 30 million – and what is really bad, the country of Lower Austria – you have to imagine that! – €300 million. In addition, 90 municipalities with so-called SWAP credits have taken over in this federal state. Many mayors have been influenced by the country's financial operations. Just one example: In the Heurigendort Perchtoldsdorf, they alone destroyed €1.5 million – the municipal citizens' money. The federal government, countries and municipalities invested millions of money in cross-border leasing business out of greed and thus gave a bad example for the entire population. [[Abg. That's right! The increase in prices must swallow the citizens!]] For example, the municipality of Vienna has sold and returned parts of the canal network, parts of the subway equipment and parts of the electricity grid to large US insurance companies. – Remaining will be the taxpayer once again. [[Call the SPÖ:Falsch!]] To Constantia Privatbank, the Bank of Millionaires: At the expense of taxpayers. As profits are privatized and losses are socialized, however, it remains human without consequences, not for the board of directors, despite occurrences, which – you really have to say so! – yell to heaven, still for the Supervisory Board. If one does not suffer the consequences, then one can release Mr Elsner immediately. However, the consequences are also completely lacking in the case of ÖBB, the State of Lower Austria and the AUVA, which speculate tax fees. Another criticism of the package to be decided today is – I come to the conclusion: [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] According to the Court of Auditors, money is mainly to be achieved through administrative reform. There's a lot of money to save up to 4 million. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: billions!]] For this reason, a tax relief package and an economic recovery package are very important and urgent to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5176	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5198	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Amon, perhaps only very briefly at the beginning, because John Maynard Keynes has been addressed, as a member of the Conservative Party: Keynes was a member of the Liberal Party, at the Oberhaus. I would ask that we should be worthy of historical facts according to what they are. – That is why I am also in favour of a different political interpretation than you wanted to present it today. Mr Schalle, very briefly to you: The stories with the Bundesbahn, which you presented to us today, and also with Mr. Huber, who is truly not a famous leaf in the history of the Bundesbahnen, have taken place under Mr. Gorbach – then Vice-chanc and Minister of Transport. So I don't quite understand what you're particularly complaining about. [[Abg. Strache: And the discharge and pension insurance has been done by Minister Faymann, as a thank you for this story!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in general, it has been possible to have a relatively harmonious discussion today. I think that everyone in the house really recognises the sense of these measures, which we are soon deciding on. It is, of course, just a first step. That means we're calming the capital market, the banking market. If an economic location has to exist, this means, of course, investing, ensuring investments and, of course, providing the appropriate capital to equip the banking system. The fact that we need, of course, an economic recovery programme, which will also come, which the government has already presented in the broad outlines, is not at all a question. Mr Auer, I would like to thank you very much, in all the aspects that we have outlined today and in which there is harmony, for the fact that you have, in particular, really put forth the financial market policy of Grasser, the Minister of Finance at that time, with very strong words, as what she really was, incompetent and dilentant. In fact, we have learned from him exactly what we are now seeing that it is not working, namely that capital markets are in no place, especially where derivatives are concerned, i.e. these new products. How to regulate yourself, just as gambling does not regulate itself. If we now have to note that in the capital market, not so much the actual value of companies has become disposition, but it has been primarily about making bets, how high the grain price will be in five or ten years, how high a company will be rated in five or ten years, and that more or less the basis of assessment, the basis, one sees, of course, that one has necessarily moved from the real values into virtual, fictitious values, which, of course, can work in the long term. Transparency and sustainability are therefore very important. This, of course, requires a legal framework. I can only remind you very briefly that, before this crisis started, we had this miserable problem around the Meinl Bank. We have experienced there how to apply the products of the Meinl Bank in an insolent way and we have said that this European country would be more or less the savings book of the future for the small man. Thousands of investors have spent their money there, the savings books have dissolved – and then it turns out that the group in the Meinl Bank has actually done nothing but a profit optimization model for itself, with the greatest possible risk to all investors. This, of course, has also led to the fact that people have fallen by mass for their money. – Of course, it is also important to stop such things. [[As a result of the SPÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Another problem is the stock options. Ladies and gentlemen, when we see that many of the annual payments of executive directors are obtained through premiums and the premiums depend on the need to achieve a certain economic success on a financial day, and if we recognise at the same time that this success is not achieved from the operating general business, but suddenly through the sale of the company's holdings, then we see that this is not healthy, because this, of course, greatly impedes the sustainability of corporate governance. Sometimes they say, back to the core business. It sells everything that is in the Group in advance and downstream and thus destroys the powerful base of a company, only so that a good company success can be presented on a certain deadline – it is of course not sustainable – and that corresponding premiums can be paid out. On the other hand, the future steps will be taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5245	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5267	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, my duty: I am tabling an amendment to the Government's proposal, § 93 para. 4 and § 103. I can explain it in the essentials. This is the removal of a editorial error in § 93 para. 4. It is clarified by the change in the sentence that the amount of € 50 000 secured for personal and capital companies applies exclusively to deposit protection. ==References====External links==* Official website In January 2010, the difference between € 50 000 and € 100 000 is to be replaced by the Federal Ministry of Finance of the Deposit Insurance Facility. And now the cure. Let me now come to the essential points of my remarks. I would like to hold on once again, because I believe that this is extremely important – important also for all those who watch and listen to us at home –: The Austrian banks – all relevant, all essential – are safe, strong, solid. No one needs to worry for just a minute to make his savings deposits. I say: Fortunately, this is different in Austria than in other countries! Then why do we decide today on this very ambitious financial market strengthening package? – For a very good reason: because we want to work forward. On the one hand, it is an immunisation of the Austrian credit industry against infectious effects of the crisis, so it is a kind of protection vaccination. That is why we have given the 100% guarantee for the deposits of the Austrian savers. I am particularly pleased that we have now also significantly increased the deposit guarantee for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a major concern for me, because especially SMEs are under particular pressure in view of current economic developments. Therefore, it is of great importance psychologically. Secondly, we want to create a level playing field, namely the level playing field of competition between Austrian banks in international monetary markets. There is a need to say: In recent weeks, a number of banks from other countries with state participation in their credit quality have been greatly strengthened. That means in the clear text: For these banks, it is currently much easier in the money markets than for Austrian banks to create liquidity: to place the money that they then pass on again in the form of loans to private - the house builder has been called - but also to companies, and especially to those of the medium-sized economy. A central responsibility of the banks is to provide sufficient financing for the economy, for businesses, and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Austrian economy and our jobs. And in order to enable our banks to implement themselves in the competition for liquidity, which is extremely hard because there is currently too little liquidity in the markets, We offer them a very large and very flexible range of instruments with today's package. I am sure that credit institutions will benefit from this spectrum of instruments, but expect them to do so in their own responsibility, to do so responsibly in their entrepreneurial freedom and always keep in mind their customers and their adequate funding. From the Minister of Finance, I expect him to take care of the conditions that we put in his hands today in the case of a longer-term commitment by the state, with the necessary fingertips and with an eye. Especially where it concerns listed banks. The investors who are now observing our approach with a certain expectation must not be driven away, because then we would solve one problem and create the other. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] All in all and at the end: This package creates the confidence we so urgently need in the markets – between the savers and the banks, between the companies and the banks and ultimately between the banks themselves. This is a command of the hour that we fulfill today!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5334	Mr Magistrate. Ikrath's amendment is sufficiently supported. The application was explained in its core points and is therefore included in the proceedings; it becomes subject to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5404	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5426	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the banking package here today, it is ultimately about securing, strengthening and improving confidence and confidence in the financial market. But finally, what we have to negotiate here today is nothing but a Ho-ruck measure that has become necessary because fire is on the roof. We of the Greens have said: Yes, we need to strengthen the financial sector, we need to improve the supervision of the financial market, and we therefore already made a request in July 2007, which was aimed at strengthening the supervision of the financial market. This included many points which were very important: from the qualification of the Supervisory Boards to the task of auditors to the organisation of the state commissioners and their use. Do you know what happened to that? [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: They were incorporated into a law! Financial Market Supervision has been made new!]] Nothing else has happened, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, except that it has been rejected in Bausch and Bogen, without carefully examining and involving it. Yes, the financial crisis poses the great danger it will face the real economy. And that means nothing but that consumption in households and investment in businesses will decrease. The question now is: What are you doing to prevent this? What concrete steps are being taken by you to strengthen economic growth in this form? As we all know, both the Economic Research Institute and the IHS and all international organisations are forecasting a decline in economic growth. The export economy, which is a very important economic factor in Austria, suffers from a weak dollar price, from the difficulties in the countries. But also areas that are very future-looking, such as environmental technology, eco-energy, suffer very much from the fact that there is no home market. That is exactly where it is to be taken in a second step. Worldwide, steps must be taken in relation to a global financial summit, to reform the international organisations that have already been addressed. Nationally, measures must be taken to strengthen businesses and in particular to promote the purchasing power of households. What do we have right now? – We have a great crisis in the financial market. The capital markets are in decline. And at present there is a danger that this debate will face a very central problem, and that is the great climate crisis. Those who have read the newspapers over the past few weeks have noticed that there is a dramatic change in the situation, that a strong warming will take place, which will achieve a dynamic with incredibly high costs of damage – damage costs that will affect us to an extent that will ultimately reach the amounts debated today over years and in the future. Finally, it is about taking steps, because these are the very ones that would strengthen the economy. Investing here means nothing but creating jobs exactly in these areas, saving people money by being able to flow into other areas. It is important to secure home markets and strengthen purchasing power. This is an eco-social tax reform to finally achieve a relief from the labour factor. Here you, Minister of Finance, have done nothing in the past legislative period. But there are still many open questions, such as: How will cross-border operations affect the close-to-state businesses? What about all the dubious financial transactions? How much are the close-to-state farms at risk? Many problems have been identified, there has been an approach to a small area today – but the major problems, such as education policy, research policy, tax policy and climate policy, remain open! [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5468	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. Maximum speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5490	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Today, in the course of this debate, we are experiencing once again a classic example of how a federal government, which over the last two years has basically been listed as the famous bock in the garden, both in the economic and financial gardens, because there are many things that could have been done better, and because many parts of this crisis have been made home, tries to become a gardener with anointing words. It is a classic example of trying to change by trying to turn a thing around completely. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, it has been said of a "firearm" which, as it were, expresses a place of employment in Austria, but I have the suspicion that if I look at the contributions of this red and black federal government in the last two years – and I also count the non-reports – I have many "brands" on top of the team car, namely in red and black, and that they are now leaving to clear a fire for which they are substantially responsible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am therefore talking about the “bock in the garden” – which you have shot in many areas – because you have saddled and hesitated and slept everywhere where we have said that you should have acted. I just mention a few words: Redemption through a large tax reform, boosting of internal purchasing power. – Nothing happened at all! On the contrary: They have all blamed them as being irresponsible, who have been demanding this for years and who say that they must not be so naive and believe that the beautiful weather phase of the economy continues until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. They were not responsible – and not those who demanded it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you keep sleeping, ladies and gentlemen! Although you know that unemployment will continue to increase on a massive scale, we do not hear anything about an immigration stop. On the contrary: We want to continue to open the borders to immigration! That is not responsible for what you are doing in this phase, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am not talking about your responsibility, although you know that people no longer have money in their pockets and that the most necessary things in life can no longer be done, yes to a massive increase in electricity and gas prices, and so to speak, your pre-Christmas gift to pensioners, single parents and to those people who already have no money. That's not responsible! And that's why you're the goats in this economic and financial situation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, because They gave you gas everywhere, because you couldn't go anywhere fast enough because you pushed there, where you should have braked and where you should have been careful. And that's where I'm just telling you – there's a key word for it: This is your blind-hearted neoliberal course! At this point, I would particularly like to address the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, who are so happy to knock on their breasts, as we all know, and point out their economic competence on every occasion: I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to do very well, also for the truth, with the term “economic competence” either much more cautiously in the future, to deal with it more cautiously, or at least to say what economy you think you consider to be competent, because the economy you think is exactly what we need to recognize in recent years or for some time now as a classical neoliberal mistake, but you are holding fast to what the Vatican could not do better in certain areas when it comes to defending religious dogma. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I would also like to address the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and say to you: The SPÖ was there all over it, so you can't let them out of debt. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am pleased that at the beginning of the debate, Mr Klubobmann Cap put Mr Grasser as a symbol of this – that is right – but Mr Grasser has to be given one thing to do: He has openly come to know this ideology! But you're doing it. So to speak, under the red spell. They are just as neoliberal and they are sitting on this nonsense as are your coalition colleagues, with whom you will soon be in the coalition bed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What a neoliberal course it is if you are ruining people's power if we do not even belong to the tram equipment in the absolutely red Vienna, with which we drive every day when the Danube power plants no longer belong to us and when electricity networks are ruined to America! You can only be congratulated if you now realize that it would actually be better if the public hand were to keep the protective coat over this property. Believeworthy, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, all of this is not! Ladies and gentlemen, now, because it is also a matter of saving the AUA in a time when the economic situation is a bad one, I am not going to continue to make people's assets worse, a motion for a resolution that at least needs to save the AUA that has been attacked, so that one does not go astray and does not continue to squander people's assets under its worth. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A final sentence...
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5634	Mr President, no, your speaking time has already been exceeded. [[Abg. Mr President, I should like to make one final point.]] The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, Mr Ing. President. — The debate is closed. [[Abg. Strache: Not even a final sentence!]] [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Kickl.]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5725	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5746	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Appreciate to seeers on the gallery and at home! Before I go into the present national package of measures to protect the credit and insurance industry in detail, I would also like to draw on the example of the vehicle that has been quoted today and to say that it is really about using it, but it will be necessary – and this is especially the case with the Federal Government, but also with the future! – to ensure with the international partners that a safe and, so to speak, fire-resistant construction of the financial markets is built, which does not allow for a crossover of the sulfur to another floor, to another space in this building. It will be necessary – unfortunately, Mr Faymann is not here now – that on the one hand, one is the fundamental evil of lack of control and the lack of transparency, above all – but not only! – on the US financial market, and on the other hand, what is very important is that the work and the constructions of the international rating agencies, which come from the US side, are revised, as they are a fundamental factor in the lack of confidence in the lending of money between banks at the moment, because a basis for the decisions to lend money between the banks is, of course, the rating of the opposite bank. And if you can't rely on this rating anymore or on the rating of the country where this bank is positioned, then it is only logically, the banks, including the local banks, have the problem of getting money on the one hand and giving money on the other. In other words, it will be very essential to tackle these problems in the first place in order to prevent further disposal operations being necessary in the future. In his speech, Federal Minister Faymann stated that there must be consequences, and he also noted that there must be more international control and transparency. Yes, I say, I can only agree with it, only: Mr. Federal Minister Faymann, wherever you are now, you are the Federal Minister and therefore part of this Federal Government, so you do not talk, but act! I think it is very important to note here: It must be done here! We can't watch that anymore! It is necessary to act internationally on the partners, including on large powers such as the United States of America, to take appropriate steps here. However, it is also very necessary – and this is also to be said – to link the issue of the capital of €100 billion, as it is now planned, to appropriate conditions. It is very positive to note that, since last night, this government template, which we are discussing here, also includes appropriate conditions for credit institutions and insurance institutions. Until last night, there was no provision for a variety of conditions, including for the benefit of citizens who are responsible for them. This has been said here again as very positive. I am particularly grateful to my colleague from BZÖ Josef Bucher, who has made a significant contribution to the fact that these conditions have now been incorporated into the concept. [[OBJECTIVES]] These conditions include, among other things, the possible requirement for credit institutions and insurance institutions in the field of business policy orientation, requirements for the use of the funds received, requirements – and this is important for the acceptance among the population – regarding the remuneration of the institutions of banks and insurance institutions, requirements for the own resources of these institutions, requirements relating to the distribution of dividends, requirements relating to the maintenance of jobs in beneficiary credit institutions and insurance institutions, requirements regarding the prevention of distortions of competition and, of course, also the application of corresponding accounting reports from those institutions. That is, if we make 100 billion € available to the credit industry and the insurance industry, then this can only be done if we put in place appropriate measures and provide appropriate conditions, which, of course, are also sufficient for the benefit of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5804	Ladies and gentlemen, the TV transmission is therefore over. But there are still two words before me: The first is Mrs Tamandl's speech. Would you like me to give you a speaking time? - 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5828	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, it's actually a shame that the television broadcast ends now, not because I'm so keen on talking during the television broadcast time, but because probably many of the audiences today even have not known in what direction the law is moving, which is intended to secure its savings and which all parties are constantly saying that they are of an opinion and that this law will find a broad majority, in connection with which many but also quite different things have said. For example, Mr Kickl spoke of everything possible. Mr Kickl! If you are talking about the lack of economic competence in us, I would like to recommend that you not put the word “economic competence” in your mouth, because you cannot even write it as you have described it to us today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] .. Mrs Lichtenecker, you have explained to us what you do not expect. Among other things, they have called for: We need a tax reform or an eco-social tax reform! – I think you have forgotten that we have had national elections and that the current government is only in office until the next government is fishing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Do you want to presuppose this new government? We'll be back today as we were on the 24th. September everything possible, so to speak, as herb and beet decide? I think that would be a presumption, and we should not allow that! To the present law, which I hope we will adopt unanimously today: Many of you have said that we can now spend €100 billion, while otherwise it always means from our side that we have no money for tax reforms. – First of all, I would like to say that we do not yet know which liability will definitely hit. At the moment – if you look away from the situation that is now being settled elsewhere – you are not sure how many billions or millions will be beaten. We must also be really glad that the small savers, the house builders and the people who have financed themselves with loans can now be sure that on the one hand their loans will not be due and on the other hand their savings will be safe and they will not lose the money! There are also many who have made conservative investments and have not invested in the stock market or in funds, and it is true that we are now securing the deposits of these savers. I also think it is necessary for us to secure the deposits for the individual companies and small capital companies, because at least 90 percent of all Austrian companies have less than 20 employees and thus we also receive jobs by securing this company the money they have spent on any investment. On the other hand, we must also, of course, make it easier for companies to get credit, which hopefully will soon be started with a business package. I can tell you from the practice: There are companies that have 10 to 20 employees and would urgently need 20 000, 50 000 or 80 000 euros, but do not get a credit because all banks appeal to Basel II. We've heard this many times today: America has brought this to our attention, but they don't even put it into practice themselves. That means something has to happen here. We need appropriate economic packages to help companies create new capital. That's necessary. Some of your colleagues have said that we are of the ÖVP those who repeatedly wanted to destroy the first pillar in the pension system and change against the second and third pillars. – One does not exclude the other! If someone takes private care, it's very good. You're not going to be bad. want to talk! However, we have always voted in favour of the state pillar! And I ask the rulings who did not vote in favour of the pension reform in 2003, how pensions without reforms should be safe when the pension contributions explode sometime. It is therefore necessary and important to build confidence among the population. Finally, I would like to quote a legendary banker, the former head of the credit institution, Heinrich Treichl, who has become 95 years in these days. In a “format” interview, he was asked the question: “Do you think the banks need to become more conservative again?” Remarkably, Heinrich Treichl answered this question with the words: “Yes, a bank management is supposed to be conservative, to be afraid of innovations, and to protest little. The American banks have partly not been very well managed. There you are constantly looking for something new. And in banking, this tendency is a danger.” I think our banks in Austria are very serious about the money of the savers. In addition, their approach to lending is also very serious. Today's package will provide security against the threat of losses, and this is good in the sense of the population and in the sense of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5912	The last mention in this debate is made by Mr Magistrate. Stadler ahead. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e5934	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel has ended his debate with the remark that he agrees with abdominal pain today. – I think that’s how everybody is doing today! I originally intended to let go of my abdominal pain as long as I did not agree to it at third reading, so to speak, so to speak, not to make a cramp of it. However, I am going to support what is to be decided today in third reading, because there is simply no alternative. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation that is not pleasant for the state. In this situation, Parliament is practically pushed by this banking power to the wall. This is, as I have said, not pleasant, and I fear that nothing will change, and not through the deadlines, Mr Klubobmann. If the deadlines expire, I will look at whether repayments actually take place or not the next desires will come. The aim will be to extend liability because you cannot afford repayments. It will continue, ladies and gentlemen, it will not end! With what we decide today, we are going a completely new way of securing the banks in Austria. It will probably not be much different internationally, but it is at least a completely new path that takes the taxpayer, who has already been conjured several times today, into his duty. And who is this taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen? – It’s the middle class, it’s those who really pay taxes! These people are wearing the main load. That is why all the speakers today were right, who have said that these taxpayers must be relieved as the next one, that they will continue to become a cashier and that they will have to assume the liability burden of getting loans, which they also have to pay expensively, from the banks at all. Mr. Klubobmann bowl, 100 billion € are a huge volume. I am hardly a country that uses one third of its gross domestic product to improve the status of its banks! I am now putting myself in the position of Mr Elsner in the detention centre. He'll ask himself: Why didn't I keep up? If I had held it for another two years, then I would be held liable today. What am I in the detention centre for? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I admire the SPÖ that she is not tempted to take part in a arrest request. I would've agreed! The question arises, ladies and gentlemen, that Elsner has been accused of something and is now sitting, while others are running around freely in a similar situation and can also improve it! Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing today for the first time that the country's banking power is becoming fully felt. The representative of the Sovereign and the representative of the taxpayer will be made clear which power banks have. We cannot afford to make banks slumber in crises. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are dealing with this, there are differences of views. I say it again, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel: I will be voting in third reading. However, I note that I am not at all happy when, in the future, the control bank decides who is granted a liability and who is not. This creates a new Lombard club through the back door. Günter, it is! There it is decided who is there and who is not. And it was also tried: One originally wanted to grant a liability to those who are themselves involved with a share in this bank. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The Lombard club is already something different!]] We know that too! But the agreements that will take place there in the future are not irrelevant. What will take place there is no longer insignificant, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This involves a clear distortion of competition rights and the right to award. All these items will certainly not be issued throughout Europe. All of this will not happen, but all of this will be muzzled in the future in the Lombard club of a new kind, and we will only be able to see more, but have no way to influence it, and not over the ÖIAG. Mr. Klubobmann's bowl! Now there is a bit of revenge for ÖIAG's self-employment! We may have left them too far away from us! Therefore, we must consider, but try more strongly to take the daughters of the ÖIAG and the ÖIAG themselves again under state control or supervision. In any case, supervision has suffered. I used to be in favour of this, but today I am more skeptical of this release from the state supervision. Ladies and gentlemen! I am – around with Klubobmann Go ahead and talk – certainly no etatist and no protectionist at all. But you don't have to be an etatist or even a protectionist to speak the word to the supervision! Control is not etatism or protectionism! And the control, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly lacking in this draft law, which I very much regret. I assume that this law will already be new in the foreseeable future, so that the control will be extended. I would have liked that the institution of the State having the budgetary sovereignty should also have a role in the issue of liability. We have proposed this mo-dell of a German-style co-operation committee. However, this was rejected. However, I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that sooner or later Parliament will no longer be involved. After all, the taxpayer will not be involved at some point. It is not going to happen for a short time or a long time, if one does not strictly increase the liability of bank managers, especially the fund manager, and clearly says that there is also an exchange to take place here. This must be a condition for acceptance of liability and liability in the future. In addition, we must also be aware that financial market surveillance needs to be much more closely monitored in the future. We have found in the Banking Investigation Committee the failure of auditors who have then cleared themselves. And the Judicature also gives them justice. It is to be feared that we will have to experience that the banks do not at all think of letting down the pants and saying how they are intertwined internationally. When I think about how far this is going, I'm going to be unwell! My stomach hurts sorely! Mr Auer, I do believe that the Raiffeisen banking group Upper Austria is not really deep inside! Mr Scharinger will certainly have told you that! But is that the case with Raiffeisen International? – I have my doubts about it! I have no secure knowledge, but I have my doubts about it! I fear that these liabilities, which are now in the room but should never be used, will unfortunately be more effective than we all expect or fear! I'm worried that some banks are much deeper in the mister than they're admitting to us! Five weeks ago, no one in Iceland would have said that the state will soon be bankrupt. For a week now, we know it's the way it is! That would have been unthinkable a few weeks ago! So we go to an incredibly dangerous terrain for the general state, and we have no alternative to that. That is the brutality of the process! At least we should know who we are dealing with, and that is why we also need to disclose the entire international linkage. I believe that we will no longer be able to accept liability in the future without disclosure of international links. Although there is an approach to this issue in this context, I believe that it should also be ensured that the SME at last has something to do with the financing of its own medium-sized enterprises. I had a discussion with Mr Donabauer a few weeks ago. At that time he said that it is inconceivable that the State assumes liability for medium-sized enterprises in the form of a founding aid. – Today, I hear from the designated party chairman Josef Pröll that he is at least thinking about doing that. That's an hour's commandment, ladies and gentlemen! If we already assume billions of liabilities for banks, we must also be prepared to cover those who still want to start a business with liability at the start of their business. Ladies and gentlemen, it's all right that "better government" has been announced, but: There must also be transparency and control in the implementation of this ‘better government’! In addition, it is also to be considered how one really sells empty sales. I have a proposal to make. I have heard a lot about the empty sales today, and I suggest that in the future only more empty sales should be possible if the ac ten packages are physically available at the bank. Mr President, this is a simple solution. Only if guaranteed and confirmed that the shares are physically available... Yes. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Then there are no more empty sales!]] That would stop the empty sale! At present, however, these sales are still taking place, ladies and gentlemen. We want to, but we can't stop them. Why don't you take a look at the Vienna Stock Exchange? Empty sales continue. In the moment, however, in which the stock package must be physically available, the sale is no longer an empty sale! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is high time to think about how to take the banks under more control and make them more transparent. It's safe to say: The new composition of this House gives opportunities that banks cannot be right if they oppose control. I spoke to one of the authors of this law. If the banking sector continues to be opposed to control and transparency, this House will have the opportunity to nevertheless establish control, with examination committees and with special audit orders to the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen. It's a scratch on the back door, but that's unpleasant. If the banks prefer this, they would have been told from here: If they are not willing to disclose and establish transparency, then this House will be able to defend itself against taking us only by the guild, octuating liability and otherwise not even saying what and for whom exactly we are liable, ladies and gentlemen! I am now back to the stomach pain of my colleague's bowl, and so hard is it for me, despite my stomach pain: I will vote in third reading today because I do not want our economy to suffer damage through Parliament's rigorous refusal to participate. But it was said to all: If one believes that this Parliament can continue to be held hostage, then one will be fooled! This Parliament has opportunities to defend itself!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e6003	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. That is what we shall come to the vote. We shall first vote on the draft law in 683 of the Supplements. Here are the following applications and requests: Mr Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, amendments or amendments, an amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr President, and a request for a separate vote by Mr Mag. Rossmann, colleagues on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I shall now vote accordingly on the parts of the legislative system affected by the supplementary and amending proposals referred to above and by the request for separate vote. The Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment relating to Article 1(1) (1) point (b) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to be introduced. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 1(1) paragraph 1. 4 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask all those members of the House who are calling for such a sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of Article 1 of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. Mr Bucher, fellow Members, also tabled an amendment to Article 2(2). 5 of the draft law. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – That's the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph 6 in Article 2(2). If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of Article 2 of the draft law, which has not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution on equal opportunities for direct and fund bonds annexed to the Committee's report 683 of the Supplements as Appendix 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. It's accepted. (E 115.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution relating to the Committee Report 683 of the Supplements as Appendix 2 on the re-design of a high-performance investor compensation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 116.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Rossmann, colleagues on private (foreign) currency creditors and SMEs/EPU security package to bridge the consequences of the financial crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues on Cross Border Leasing. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on criminal responsibility of criminal banking and financial services managers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, colleagues on manager's salaries and liability. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on the discharge of Austrian citizens and businesses due to the financial crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on the reintroduction of the exchange rate tax. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Grastaur, ladies and gentlemen on the necessary amendments to the Pension Scheme Act as a result of the financial crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kickl, colleagues on AUA privatisation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[17:24:54]] Decision to terminate the 2008 extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e6269	I have the following request: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary 2008 XXIII meeting. The legislative period of the National Council with the end of the 75th. declare an end to the meeting.’; I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[17:25:15]] Reading of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e6301	I would also like to make a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol so that it can be deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will enable immediate decision-making. I shall therefore proceed in this way and now read the Official Protocol: ‘With regard to item 1 of the agenda, according to § 44 para. 2 GOG unanimously – with the required two-thirds majority – decided to withdraw from the 24-hour expiry period of the Committee's report. There is a request for an end to the 2008 extraordinary meeting of XXIII. GP of the National Council with the end of the 75th. Sitting (Annex I/1). There is also a desire for separate vote (Annex I/2). It is the desire to read the Official Protocol of the 75. National Council meeting (Annex I/3). TO point 1: Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (682 of the Supplements): Federal Act establishing an Interbank Strengthening Act and a Financial Market Stability Act and amending the ÖIAG Act, the Banking Act and other laws (683 of the Supplements) Deputies Mag. Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA. Mr Fichtenbauer, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/2 EA). Mr Strache, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). Mr Bucher, fellow Members, tabled the amendment Addenda 1/4... Deputies Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/5 EA). Mr Themessl, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/6 EA). Deputies Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/7 EA). Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution tabled by the European Parliament is an annex 1/8 EA. Deputies Dkfm. Dr. Assuredly, Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment Amendment Supplement 1/9 introduces... Mr Kickl, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Doc. 1/10 EA). The vote will take place at The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 683 of the Supplements, takes account of the amendment amendment Annex 1/9 in second reading in separate reading. Vote partly unanimously, partly with alternate majority groups (for which S, V, B, S, V, F, S, V, G, B respectively). S, V, G, B, Mag. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and adopted unanimously at 3 p.m.) The amendment Annex 1/4 is rejected in separate vote (F, B, Mag. ==References== G, F, B, Mag. Stadler). The resolution annexed to the Committee's report 683 of the Supplements (Annex 1) will be voted by a majority (for which S, V, F, B, Mag. ==References== The resolution annexed to the Committee's report 683 of the Supplements (Annex 2) was adopted unanimously. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA is rejected (G, F, B, Mag. Stadler). The motion for a resolution (Annex 1/2 EA) is rejected (G, F, B, Mag. Stadler). The motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA) is rejected (F, B, Mag. Stadler). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/5 EA is rejected (for that reason G, F, B, Mag. Stadler). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/6 EA is rejected (F). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/7 EA is rejected (for that reason G). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/8 EA is rejected (for that reason G, F, B, Mag. Stadler). The motion for a resolution (Doc. 1/10 EA) is rejected (F). At the request of Dr. Cap, Dr. Schüssel, Dr. Van der Bellen, Strache, Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, the National Council unanimously adopted the following decision: .The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary 2008 meeting of XXIII. The legislative period of the National Council with the end of the 75th. End of session.’ There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members, the Official Protocol of 75. Read the session (Annex I/3).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[17:29:11]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-20-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00075_d8e6439	I still announce that Questions 5056/J to 5065/J were received at today's meeting. The sitting is closed.
