ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e7625	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! The 65. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. The Official Protocols of 61 and 62. Meeting of 5. ==References====External links== Meeting of 6. In June 2008, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, Mr Dobnigg has been reported. [[09:05:10]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e7659	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that the Deputies of Reheis, Hauser, Schieder and Silhavy have waived their mandates. Mr Magnificent. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Andreas Schieder-free mandate was given to the Member of Parliament Laura Rudas and his mandate was given to Deputies Doris Bures. The mandate of the honourable Member Mag. Gerald Hauser was assigned to Mr Hartmann Lautenschlager and the freed mandate of Member Gerhard Reheis of Deputies Hedwig Wechner. Instead of MEPs Heidrun Silhavy, Member Michael Ehmann was appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the scribe, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now looking for the writer Rainer Wimmerum to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e7741	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e7768	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:06:57]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e7798	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: 'Dear Madam President! I have the honour to inform myself that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 1 January 1988, is the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. July 2008,..., in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act Vice-Chancellor Mag. Wilhelm Molterer of the Office as Federal Minister for the Interior and Federal Minister Doris Bures of the Office as Minister of State at the Federal Chancellor's Office and under Article 78(2) in conjunction with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the State Secretary Heidrun Silhavy of the Office as State Secretary in the Federal Chancellor's Office. At the same time, on my proposal under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has Mrs Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter on the Federal Minister for the Interior, pursuant to Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 77(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act Mrs Heidrun Silhavy as Federal Minister in the Federal Chancellor's Office and under Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder appointed as State Secretary at the Federal Chancellor's Office and attached him to support in the management and parliamentary representation. With the best greetings Alfred Gusenbauer” I take this opportunity to thank the retired members of the Federal Government and wish the new all the best. We are now arriving at the current hour with the theme... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Madam President, on the Rules of Procedure.]] On the Rules of Procedure, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e7853	Madam President. Values Members of the National Council! Yesterday, the Austrian Federal Government issued a capitulation declaration and informed us that it no longer wants to continue working, but that it wants to have new elections as soon as possible, because its members can no longer work together. The BZÖ, my group, the Alliance of the Future of Austria, foresaw this development very early, namely a year ago – this is very unpleasant, I know – and it did on 4 July. In July 2007, a re-election request was filed here in the Hohen Haus, which is exactly one year ago. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] In addition, the decision taken yesterday in the SPÖ also clarified and decided that SPÖ would not be ready, so that both political groups are not prepared – neither ÖVP nor SPÖ – to take part in and develop decisions here in Parliament until the election, which would bring about a possible relief from the population, for example tax reductions, cost compensation, or increase in care fees. I therefore allow myself, in accordance with § 43 of the Rules of Procedure, to set a deadline with today's day for our request, which has been in the House for a year, and to make an oral request for a deadline: Application for a deadline in accordance with § 43 para. 1 GOG of Deputies of Ing. Westenthaler and colleagues concerning the setting of deadlines pursuant to § 43 para. 1 GOOD The National Council intends to decide, in accordance with § 43 GOG, to report to the Constitutional Committee on the application 262 / A of Deputies of Ing. Westenthaler and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the XXIII. The legislative period of the National Council is terminated early, introduced on 4. ==References====External links== ==References== ==References== July, yes, that's the day after 8th. July, tomorrow. If you agree to this deadline today, and I invite you to do so, this House will be able to be here as soon as possible – just as the SPÖ and ÖVP want – to decide on our new election request and thus start to run the shortest possible deadline, and new elections can take place as soon as possible so that the population can finally send you both, red and black, into the desert. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e7898	I see no further statements on the Rules of Procedure and therefore announce that the deadline request will be put to the vote at the end of the sitting. [[09:11:05]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e7919	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Gypsies builder – the broken word applies: Red chaos in EU policy First of all, Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e7947	Mr State Secretary! Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, who would have thought that the issue we have chosen from the BZÖ for today's current hour, namely the referendum on the European Union and the SPÖ's line to do so, is actually equal to the trigger for national elections? And that was probably the trigger for the forthcoming National Council elections. The ÖVP will still have to explain how this is, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that you are constantly opposed to a people's participation and then, suddenly, – although a majority in favour of referendums in this country now stands, not only in the population, 80 percent, not only in the media, but also in politics, also in this House – because of the fact that you are against a co-determination of the population, break new elections from the fence and want to ask the people about it in September: Are you also in favour of not having to decide on your own anymore? Ladies and gentlemen! These national elections, which are in the open, will also be a vote on whether people in politics will be allowed to participate more or less in the future. When it comes to the EIA, they are no longer allowed to vote at all, but only to express their opinion every five years in the elections. We do not want that, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I say quite clearly to you: Those who refuse to vote in essential political areas – the European Union is such an area – cannot expect the citizen to vote in the national elections. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Let's wait!]] That doesn't fit! I am sure that many voters for September have already made a clear statement to the Austrian People's Party that one does not support a party that has been against the participation of the Austrian population for many years, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Let's wait, colleague!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] But now on Social Democracy, Mr Parnigoni, I am coming to you as well: [[Abg. Parnigoni: I'm afraid!]] Its line on the European Union, the policy of the European Union in recent weeks and months is already interesting. For years they have voted against a referendum, against a referendum on EU treaties, most recently the Treaty of Lisbon – and this is the case. They have vehemently denied that the population should agree here. Yes, even after the Irish Votum, your new chairman and top-level candidate Faymann took part in the "Time in Picture 2" on 18 November. In the words of June: I voted in favour of the vote by Parliament, and I can remember these decisions – well, he can remember – which I have also contributed. – End of the quote. Yes, Faymann is also a fellow culprit, even though he now understands this role backward, for he has repeatedly defended it, and therefore the unbelief is so high. They were always against a referendum. They were here in the House for a ratification at the helm, you have whipped it through that in April could be ratified. They were in charge of this house. Then came the Irish-Votum, in which the contract was broken at the Irish cliff, which was on 12 November. June, and in the end no longer is to be maintained. ==References== In June, the “Kronen Zeitung” still entitled: “Gusi fully aligned with the EU banks”, because Dr. Gusenbauer, your Federal Chancellor and Party Chairman, said: They should vote once again, which in Ireland should vote so often, until at last there is something going on. It has been voted in favour of agreeing on the Treaty once again that ratification is being carried out very hard. Your Member of the European Union, the SPÖ Member of Swoboda, has even said that we should consider excluding Ireland from the European Union because it has not been subject to this Treaty! That was your line! And the contract was and is valid for you until today! Then the 26th comes. June – what happened there?It may have been this headline – and you will be telling an astonishing public that you are suddenly in favour of a referendum, but not of the Lisbon Treaty, but of future treaties, which are not in place at all – it is not a future treaty in view. And that's one of the biggest political bluffs, one of the biggest political twists and twists that has ever been in history, ladies and gentlemen. This is once again such an empty election promise that you gave to the people, as before 2006, when you promised everything, but didn't keep anything. This promise to vote on future contracts is the same, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, as if you promised people before the election that if the SPÖ wins, after the election no more rain falls on any weekend. You won't be able to influence that at all! There's no other contract. Then the following is added: The Federal President, SPÖ Federal President Fischer, will tell you: There is no change at all in EU policy. EU policy remains unchanged. That is, your role is not even taken seriously by the Federal President. And what your party friends have arranged for you, Mr. Klubobmann Cap: “Banana Republic” the SPÖ mayor of Salzburg said damage. You're not being taken seriously anymore. “Political Misunderstanding” was another term, “Missgriff” said German Chancellor Vranitzky, your former party president, whom you still know well. Yeah, it went all the way to comparison with an eel. What's come! This “spectacular” – between quotation marks – turns, this swivel takes no one seriously. I am telling you that what you have done was not a swirl, but a maximum of a swan of the SPÖ that you have carried out here and that none is taking away from you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then Mr. Klubobmann Cap says: Everything wasn't meant to be that way! He wanted to save the government again and said: Actually, this is only possible with the agreement of the ÖVP. – That’s how it was in the “Kurier”. I know you wanted to explain the modalities in Parliament, but you've been left: You can do this anyway only with the consent of the ÖVP. By the way, you're acting the same way. Now in this phase, after this government has failed, you continue to get under the ceiling of the ÖVP and say: We do not want to decide discharges in Parliament with the opposition parties! The SPÖ is not prepared, for example, to abolish the tuition fees. [[Abg. Broukal: Would you have been ready?]] Mr Broukal, ladies and gentlemen – I really must tell you today that I never thought I would ever tell you this from here – very, very honourably your attitude, namely that you are taking the consequences and that the SPÖ is turning its back on you. I congratulate you, this is a truly stable achievement! All due respect, Mr Broukal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] We would have liked to raise the care allowance – that would have been possible. We would have liked to reduce the taxes with you. We would have liked to have decided on a price compensation for people because they can no longer afford life, the food, the spray prices, the mineral oil tax not. In this short period of time, we would have liked to take discharge measures with you and other parties – and that would have been possible – but you say: No, just with the ÖVP! Until the election, we will submit to this People's Party! – The voters will certainly not buy it, ladies and gentlemen, either. Two more sentences to the contract itself: It is also the curse of evil deeds, because after the Ireland-votum, the Poles, the Czechs and even the Germans suddenly come and put this ratification on ice, yes right on ice. The Presidents do not sign, for they say that the people have resisted that the people have made a correction and they take note of it. – It’s democracy, but it’s not going beyond it, continue, and announce any nebulous referendums for the next time. That's not fair, and that's why it was a bluff, just a swan and no swivel. I say this quite unscathed here: The signature of the Austrian Federal President, who is also from your party, under this EU Treaty is a huge blame for Federal President Fischer. He signed a contract before the Irish Vottum, ultimately an uncovered check – against the Austrian population. We warned him, I was with him for a personal conversation, we warned him and said: Please wait for the Irish Votum, wait for the decision of the other Presidents, and then make your decision! No, President Fischer had to sign on bending and breaking, and today he is standing there, quite painted, and knows that there are other attitudes of other presidents who have not just signed. Ladies and gentlemen! The uprising of the democrats in Ireland has also led to an alliance of non-democratics on the other side. This debate will also be held in the forthcoming elections. In the forthcoming elections, people should also know that there are parties that have acted against this Lisbon Treaty, which believe it to be wrong, which it feels to be a dictatorship and also criticise the content, but which is not against Europe on the other hand. And that's what I want to hold for my party: We are not against Europe, but we are against this centralist and bureaucratic European Union, which does not catch people in the hearts, but at the wallets. And that's wrong, that's the wrong development. People also need support from the European Union. The European Union has an obligation to oppose the price-fixing obligation, at prices, at food prices, at fuel prices. Nothing happens at all! But we can continue to pay € 500, 600, 700 million of net contributions to this European Union every year. That's unfair, that's unfair, that's unsocial! A non-social European Union has no future for people, and we will also reject them, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We don't carry them. We want a European Union of Citizens, a Social Union, a Union that recognises the problems, the concerns of people and is also honest with people. Mr Klubobmann Cap, get out of here today and explain why you are not for a vote on the current Lisbon Treaty! [[Abg. Parnigoni: He will do that anyway!]] We'd like to know about you. We now need the involvement of the population, now a referendum, now a commitment to more democracy and more co-determination, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8092	Mr Mag, State Secretary, has now tabled an introductory opinion. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8116	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is not surprising that the BZÖ has attached its parliamentary right to a current hour to a question that is in fact not a question at all. Because it is true that the SPÖ has a clear line on the issue of EU and European policy, and I will also be happy to present it to you today. I would also like to add that I think it is a bit absurd that the argument raised here is used as an instrument for legitimizing new elections. I am happy to explain to you the line of the SPÖ to the EU and also to clarify what is now the state of affairs, especially since the Federal Party Presidency of the SPÖ has also presented a clear decision-making document on the questions in question, which also covers the case of European Social Democracy and the Socialist International. The SPÖ is fully committed to a European unification work. The European Union is probably the most successful peace project in the history of our continent. Enlargement to Central and Eastern Europe was correct and has brought great success. The peace initiatives in south-eastern Europe are taking place, and last but not least, the economy is on a stable footing. The membership of Austria in the European Union has proved to be a valuable and positive factor in the successful development of our country. The EU is a unique success story from an Austrian point of view alone. But hardly anyone wants to hear it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also need to look at the fact that hardly anyone wants to hear this success story anymore, as I mean. Many of Austria's problems can only be solved at international and European level. We must therefore also fight for a strong and united Europe that contributes to the solution of global future issues in the interests of people on our continent. Many things we can achieve at national level, and many of them we have also implemented. But there are a number of problems that we can only solve within the framework of a European union. For example, I firmly believe that Austria, as an active member of the EU, must continue to work towards the development of the European Union into a social union in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Like the whole SPÖ, I am convinced that the EU can and must regain the trust of Europeans. This can only be done by accepting the real concerns and problems of people. The interests of the working people in Europe must be at the centre of European action. The SPÖ will, of course, contribute to an open and critical debate on the EU and its policies and the development and improvement of the EU. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are now no longer Party Secretary, you are now a member of the government!]] Austria has ratified the Lisbon Treaty after a detailed debate in Parliament. The Charter of Fundamental Rights, the instrument of European popular desire and the strengthening of Parliament are important positive elements in a more democratic European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it may also be surprising why, in a country that is clearly on the winning side, whose economic and labour market data are better than the average in the euro area, there can be such a blatant separation of conditions. But the reasons for this are partly also found in the rest of Europe. Increased income differences, social dissatisfaction, the fear of the middle class from slipping into the modernisation trap, the key to cost of energy, education and living, the irrational discussions on mass immigration and the associated crime are, to a large extent, the advantages to be reported. The widespread scepticism towards the EU in Austria must be addressed by a consistent involvement of the population in European policy. If this does not work, it remains in the hands of an EU discussion, which is largely guided by anxiety. Continuous information and the increased public and dedicated discourse with the Austrians are an opportunity to contribute to greater participation and to make greater use of existing EU policies. This should also help to address people's serious concerns and insecurity. But that's not enough. In my view, there are several approaches to a trend change. We all have to get up and make the effort to convince the skeptics. One of them is the referendum, best at European level, because referendums are an instrument with which all political leaders are required to convince people to deal directly with the population. This obviously does not happen sufficiently. We will not move enough with poster actions, brochures and advertisements alone. Many people know the Treaty of Lisbon and know about its many advantages and the benefits that the Community of States, but also the respective national representations, and not least every one of them can achieve. The signal for citizens must be clear and clear: We have understood and we want to enter into a very serious dialogue with you. I very much support the fact that future changes in the Treaty will be subject to a referendum. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Europe-wide or only in Austria?]] This applies both to a new reform treaty and to substantial changes to the Lisbon Treaty, which would also require ratification. Furthermore, I am also convinced that the inclusion of Croatia and the prospect of accession of other Balkan countries will make an important contribution to prosperity and stability in our immediate neighbourhood. Turkey's accession, on the other hand, would overstep the current EU structures. A possible accession of Turkey would in any case be subject to a referendum in Austria, which is not new either, because it has already been in the government programme. But it also needs, ladies and gentlemen, a change of policy, of Europe's policy. Europe must become social and at last focus the interests of workers. Europe must finally find answers to the questions that affect people, such as the rate of inflation, rising food prices and climate change. Unfortunately, today's EU is a conservative. The Commission, the Council, the European Parliament are dominated by conservatives. And those conservatives close their eyes to people's problems. For a better Europe, it does not mean to be against the EU. We say: Yeah, but. But the SPÖ is in favour of a more peaceful, democratic, social and civil Europe. We support reform projects and the involvement of citizens. On the basis of these principles, the EU will also be able to regain the trust and consent of Europeans.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8205	I draw attention to the fact that according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8237	Madam President. High house! Yes, the ÖVP has decided to end the cooperation in this government. The main reason is that it is against holding a referendum should the EU submit to the revised Lisbon Treaty. That means she just says: Let us vote on the vote. In other words: We do not say no departure from Europe, we say turn to the citizen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And this call for “return to the citizen” is enough for the EIA to end government work. It will be interesting what the voters will say when the ÖVP moves into the election campaign and says: We agree that you have nothing to say in the further design of Europe, for you are not enough; we will simply explain to you what is going on in Europe – and if you have understood it then we will only respect you! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is not a democratic access that you have from the ÖVP! And you will be surprised by the ÖVP in the further discussions, because rightly the citizens in Austria say: Something is going wrong in the European Union, and we want the European Union to become social! We want more democracy in the EU, and we Austrians want to participate in the further development of Europe. We are satisfied with this arrogance and superiority, which so often occurs in debates, when one or another Commissioner or one of you tries to explain to us how the world is like Europe! We say we know what it should be, and we will do everything we can to give Europe a social face – and become more democratic! [[Abg. Wheeler: When?]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] If you don't want to go this way from the ÖVP if you want to turn away from the citizen, then stop this way – and then probably your decision was also right to end this cooperation, because then there really is no common basis anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the Eurobarometer shows that in Austria it is only 28 percent of the population who say that they generally find the EU model okay, find out what is happening in the European Union, then you cannot simply go to the agenda! If you say that we're just going on as before, hold a little more folder, a little more letters, a little more school visits, of all things a little more, but don't demand that there be a policy change, too, in the European Union... – Look, something's wrong if even the French President says that Europe must be protected from the EU Commission! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] As you cannot say from the ÖVP just keep saying that it is totally okay what the Commission is doing, we support this 100%!; and my God, he may be some sort of slipper! – No, we Austrian Members here in the House are obliged to bring the interests of Austria into the European Union! If there is a desire for the people to talk more about it, then we have to take this into account – but not break new elections from the fence, as you did from the ÖVP, because you do not want the population to join in! That's inconceivable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Morak: This is a referendum!]] So that there are no mistakes here: The Lisbon Treaty is not legal!Only so that we can understand ourselves correctly. Ireland has rejected it in a referendum and, therefore, the Lisbon Treaty is not valid. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] That's fact, you have to find out, because there's going to be politics again trying to do with the question; well, but, maybe, and so on. - Nothing, nothing at all! We from the SPÖ are against any kind of back door, yes, we from the SPÖ are against any type of back door. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] You don't need to laugh at that! The Lisbon Treaty is not legal – and if there is a change when it is presented again, there must be a vote on it. Since you have just been so full-bodied by the BZÖ the current hour: They were in the government for six or seven years; They have indeed contributed to the entire policy in the European Union in the Schüssel/Gorbach government, in the Schüssel government with the FPÖ at that time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] You have been sitting here and have agreed to the Constitutional Treaty – and then give us talks about more democracy!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is ridiculous and such an unbelievable thing – and that is politically true of itself! You from the BZÖ have also noticed this yourself, because you have smiled – and now you still smile, because you know for yourself that you do not seriously mean what you are saying here. That is why I say again. It's a policy change, it's about not turning away from Europe, because: We want to take part in European development; we believe that Europe is important for our economy, for jobs, for democracy and for peace.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8354	The next item is the speech by Mr Second President, Dr Spindelegger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8376	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has heard the two contributions, namely those of Mr. State Secretary Arbitrator or Mr. Klubobmann Cap, one cannot go beyond the question of whether they are both part of the same party, for Mr. State Secretary has explained the SPÖ line to us on the grounds: Actually, everything is fine in Europe, we have just proposed a small development! On the other hand, Mr Cap said that Austria must be protected from the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Say Sarkozy!]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are already big differences! And that's what I'm already at the point: Mr State Secretary Arbitrator, with all understanding, but: You are in a new office, you should actually represent the government line – and not the SPÖ line! This is a principle that every member of the government would have to comply with. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And you, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, must also see one thing: The big discussion in Austria is that the German Chancellor and the SPÖ's designated chairman have taken a new path – with a particular calculation, which is already very questionable. Your way was not to start a discussion in the Federal Government, not to discuss with the President of the Federal Government, not to come to Parliament to present a new line in European policy, but your way was to write a letter to the editor of a newspaper – linked to the calculation: If you swing on the line of this leaf, there will be a better report in the future! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, both very worrying! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can sum this up as follows: A Federal Chancellor is the chairman of a government and one is obliged, namely the Republic of Austria. A Federal Chancellor therefore has to represent the interests of this Republic – and not party interests, ladies and gentlemen! .. [[New applause with the ÖVP]] I know that there and there both may be mixed together, but this principle, ladies and gentlemen, has, above all, our Members here in this House to be represented again and again. And you must not leave this principle! Whoever is praised for the Republic, as the Federal Chancellor of a government, has to serve this Republic, and thus not to experiment with not making bocks jumps, but to put these interests in the centre. [[Abg. The Republic, but not the EU Commission, Mr President!]] I would like to expressly support this on behalf of my group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is your calculation, my Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, can't go on either, because a German chancellor has a different audience than just the readers of a newspaper. We also see that this group of addressees, far beyond Austria, is extremely irritated. In the international environment, Austria now has a question mark, so to speak; it is no longer known. And it cannot be that there is a foreign and European policy in Austria, where there are two completely different directions. That's why I'm really horrified at this one of your ways – and actually personally disappointed, because I wouldn't have trusted a German chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer, who has long international experience. Let me now come to the subject of referendum, a very important issue. Everyone can of course put forward a proposal for this, and everyone can also discover his love for popular elections, but I already give to consider: In Austria, we only had referendums twice; once for a political reason, what the TKW Zwentendorf is about to do, and once out of the legal necessity, when Austria joined the European Union. So in Austria we have no tradition on this issue, but we have another political system, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Just because we do not have a democratic tradition, one should not strengthen democracy!? That's a weak argument!]] I am also a member of our political system, which means: We elect Members who decide what is good for Austria. And I believe that the Austrians as a whole are satisfied with this system, and we should stay with it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me just say something about what actually has to be done. Of course, we all have to think if many Austrians do not fully agree with this path. But will it be better now to put forward the prospect of a referendum over a new treaty in ten years? - I don't think so! Discussion and information are required today. The old proverb: What I do not know does not make me hot, does not apply to European questions, there is quite another, namely: What I don't know from Europe makes me hot! That is why, as I believe, we are also calling on everyone to discuss more about Europe, because many of the benefits of it and those associated with our membership are often unaware of the Austrians. That's why: Let's go this way a lot better, and stop with such calcules, with a belly spot in front of a newspaper! This is not worthy of Austria, especially not a federal government, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8494	Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek's next speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8516	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We can make fun of it later, Mr Westenthaler. Now let's stick to the matter! The theme of today's current hour has been selected: “Gypsies builder – the broken word: red chaos in EU policy!” I don't think it was a big surprise yesterday that this government declared its failure and managed to do so. During the last few weeks, we have had to look at how Vice Chancellor Molterer lamented: It's not going anymore, it's not going anymore! Yesterday, he took the flight forward. However, it was obvious that the change in EU policy was crucial. It's worth losing a few words. Sure, you can change your mind! The SPÖ has often changed its opinion. She has represented many opinions, positions before the election, which she then no longer represented in the government: Study fees, Eurofighter. I remember a quote from the 17th century. May 2006: “The next National Council election will allow voters to between a government with Eurofighters and a government without Eurofighters.” Well, you can change your mind, especially if you move into a government. However, the prerequisite for such a change of opinion, as I believe, is something very important in policy: He is supposed to be comprehensible, one should discuss, perhaps one should also be convinced of his change of opinion! All of this was not the case with this Europe-swivel! The impression has arisen – and this impression is shared by many people in Austria, as I believe – that it is not about making a new conviction about the end of a discussion about a new knowledge, but only about offering themselves, offering a newspaper, making a Kotau in front of a publisher, in order to be mild in vote in order to vote him kindly. The impression has arisen that it is not a question of a new European policy. – And that’s the point in this discussion that makes such a vote! [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Making politics means convincing! If you were indeed convinced by the European Union and by the changes you want to make there, you would have had one and a half years or two to enforce them at European level. There were also some announcements, for example a consistent anti-atomic policy; in the transport policy there were dozens of announcements also from the current top candidate Faymann. You didn't keep much of it. And now you're talking about a situation - namely, the social gap, the problems that many people in Austria have - that they can no longer live with their incomes, although they work, real wage losses - and say: Yes, if people are so dissatisfied with the European Union – and the European Union is obviously responsible for this social situation – then they should vote on it too! The truth is another. The truth is that most of the social policy, distribution policy, justice issues have been in the hands of SPÖ over the last one and a half years. And this balance is desperate, which is really desperate! They have announced reducing unemployment, reducing youth unemployment. There's a little bit of success. However, you have consistently put yourself on the wrong side of the major political distribution issues. I do not know what has moved you to adopt further tax privileges for the 3 316 Foundations in Austria at the last National Council meetings! This makes use of 10,000 people in Austria, but the single-schoolers, the people who work but can no longer live on it, the pensioners who do not have a real increase in their incomes since 1995, for example, do not benefit from it at all. And that is only Austrian social policy, justice policy that you have not done! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the Europe discussion, however, both ÖVP and SPÖ went to dive sites very intensively from the government side. Most of the work of conviction has essentially been done by the First President and the Federal President. Our opinion is: This treaty has clearly failed now, but the parts that were good in it – for example, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the upgrading of the European Parliament, but also the possibility of making popular desires – should not be forgotten and simply let populist politics go! Instead, we should use the opportunity to save this for the people of Europe! And one last sentence: Change opinions – okay; without conviction – no! What happened yesterday is a special class of changing opinions. At the last moment, when you were SPÖs, you had the opportunity to rescind the promises you made before the election, for example, to abolish the tuition fees, to break them again, with the following statement, and I quote Mrs. Landeshupffrau Burgstaller, who meant: With propriety, this coalition is to come to an end. – If it is referred to as a ‘favorable state’ that Parliament has now been kneeled in the last three days and there is no way of allowing majority voting here, then I do not know what will happen!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8603	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8624	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government has been taking a great deal of advantage of the citizens of this country since the start of government. This is a way of describing the alleged European Union swivelling of SPÖ. This is nothing but another galery, a ridiculous soap bubble, which can ultimately be determined that a lot of noise has been made for nothing. Although this open letter from Gusenbauer and Faymann to a large daily newspaper artificially aroused the ÖVP and also led the ÖVP to launch new elections now, I wonder: Why is the ÖVP really so excited? A few weeks ago, the SPÖ and the Austrian People's Party joined forces against the Austrian people, against their own people here in the High House, here in Parliament, has whipped through the European Constitutional dictatorship and rejected all the requests of the Freedom Party in this Parliament – that is, seven pieces. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have acted and acted jointly against the interests of their own people here a few weeks ago – with active support from the Greens, with active support from the BZÖ. The BZÖ has also rejected all seven requests from the Austrian Freedom Party for a referendum. That's quite interesting! Mr Scheibner and Mr Bucher have still said that this EU Constitutional Treaty is far too far away. In fact, we need to formulate these much more dictatorial when it comes to the BZÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't understand! But that's no wonder!]] But you too have always rejected a referendum! They always wanted a nebulous population survey that had no legal obligation. That makes the difference. We are free from another wood, because we trust our own population, we trust in the right sense of the Austrian population and trust our own people in this question of course the power of decision! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You'll be surprised if you don't put any confidence in your own population, and then your own population won't trust you! That's a logical process. We trust the population because we also trust the population. That is, as I believe, exactly the core area where one can hold that one should not wonder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] With regard to your European Union swivel They probably sent a letter from Social Democracy to Brussels, where it reads: Don't worry! We have already voted against the Austrians in Parliament for this constitutional dictatorship! Our party friend, Federal President Heinz Fischer, has immediately signed this Constitutional dictatorship! And we are not at all willing to ask the President to withdraw the signature! But that would be honest! That would be honest if you came here and apologise for your behaviour if you asked the President of the Federal Republic to withdraw his signature, which he put under the Constitutional Treaty, and if you said: This Constitutional Treaty failed after the vote in Ireland and ultimately failed to revive it. It's history! And we're going to have a popular vote like that – and not like you, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, lived the next kneefall before the ÖVP by going here and saying: Please, don't excite yourself from the ÖVP! Without you, we will never vote for a referendum! There you can say: This will last until eternity, that you never agree to a referendum, because we know the position of the ÖVP on this issue. Why the ÖVP still carries the term “people” in its own party name, although it makes permanent politics against its own people and against the Austrians, is at all very wonderful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This name you should actually take once, if you permanently pass over your own people, over the Austrian population with a prepotence of power, how you can't imagine it worse at all! – And you have always been the contributor in all these areas, in all areas! [[towards SPÖ]] Schachtschneider has given us a right to his current expertise that he has made. Under the title ‘The protection of constitutional law against Union policies in Austria following the rejection by the Irish of the Lisbon Treaty’, he stated: “This” – i.e. with the Irish vote – “is the Treaty of Lisbon, which according to Art. 54 para. 2 TEU can only enter into force if all Member States have ratified it in accordance with their constitutional rules.’ — Quotes. [[Abg. Eßl: Who is this? Who says that?]] Shaftschneider also warns against a renewed referendum in Ireland. He says that this must not be possible and not possible under general law. And he also says: The Treaty of Lisbon brings about an overall change in the Austrian federal constitution. And that's it! They have always trampled their own Austrian federal constitution with feet. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is a right to referendum that we have and that you have refused us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, the next election will also have a national voting character: Those who want to strengthen Austria can do so with a voice for the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8720	Next, Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8742	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague Strache – looking at us – said he was carved from another wood. Mr. Strache, I don't know what wood you mean! [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: Oak!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: German oak!]] Maybe the German oak. But it's a little messy, Mr. Strache! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Bamboo better than your bamboo! Better than your backboneless bamboo, Mr Scheibner!]] It is not only a loud voice that belongs to a broken policy, but also a good content. This makes us different from you, and we are proud of that, Mr. Strache. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are, as we have seen now, many politicians who turn off the mind in election struggles. There are others who don't need to do that because they forgot to turn it on after the last elections. [[Abg. You mean you've never used your mind, Mr. Scheibner?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Strache, unlike you, we know what this Europe is to look like, which we are imagining. You always demand: Volksammen, Volksammen, Volksamm! – About what, you don't say that! [[Abg. Strache: We adhere to the Austrian Constitution!]] If you want a referendum after the Austrian federal constitution, you must first agree to the basic treaty. [[Abg. That's where you see your thinking!]] That is, in order to be able to hold a referendum, the FPÖ must first have agreed to the whole treaty here in the House. That's not what you're saying, Mr. Strache. But these are the contradictions. And I hope the population realizes that too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Of course, the performance of Colleague Cap was also interesting. Mr Cap, I think you're from Hernals. There's not far away from the Stegreifbühne Tschunner. And you've really brought us the best Stegreiftheater. I can still remember how you have accused the Members who voted for a referendum of having too little self-esteem. You said the Member – representative democracy! – has the opportunity and the duty to stand here and vote! - Those were your words. And now suddenly you say to those who are against the referendum: They are against direct democracy and against citizens! So that's really interesting. But I have often praised the acting skills of you. But it is certainly also interesting to highlight this turnaround. What we are concerned with, ladies and gentlemen, is the following: Both these advocates, who are against anyone who criticizes the EU, harm the European Union and the European idea as well as the opponents who, in fact, only want to leave without considering the consequences of it. We want another, a new Europe. We have already said clearly – whether to introduce national referendums or not – that: It is clear that this 27-year Europe can no longer work with these mechanisms. That's impossible. We need a new Europe, we need new structures. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we are committed to a Europe of different speeds. You cannot compare Austria and Germany and the Netherlands and the UK with the countries that have joined us: Romania, Bulgaria and other countries. It can't be shaved over a comb. That is why we have said that there must be a core Europe, a core of the European Union of the best developed countries. And there is a sense in the national referendum, because, of course, the accessions of the Member States have been long since. That was another European Union, my dear colleague. – Listening [[Abg. Strache: There you have also spoken against the referendum, with Romania, at the Easter enlargement! Backboneless!]] It's a little bit too, maybe you'll learn something more about what would be reasonable! A national referendum should be carried out on this core, whether the country concerned, whether or not Austria wants to be a member of that core Europe. And all other countries do not participate in full integration, but only use modules from it. At the extreme ring there are then countries that do not want to join for various reasons or cannot, because they do not meet the criteria, such as Turkey, where there are only bilateral treaties. That would make sense, because – and you are right, Mr Strache – in some areas we have too little Europe – but I have already heard from your Frak-sion colleagues – namely in the fight against globalisation, in the fight against speculators, for example in the oil price, in the question of a common security policy, in the question of a common foreign policy as a counterpart to the United States. [[Abg. Strache: This is the globalisation project, this Europe! This is the brain of globalisation!]] But this does not apply to areas such as those that are changing the problems of the Germans regarding study fees and access to study in Austria. There's too much Europe. We have too many regulations in many areas, too many rules, but in some important areas we have too little. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that's why neither the withdrawal struggle of the opponents nor the euphoria of the advocates is the right way, but a principle discussion: Where do we want to go with this common Europe? New structures, new tasks and a clear decision by the population whether it wants to be in this new Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8912	Next, Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8933	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we can live in peace in Europe is by no means a matter of course, but has to be developed after hard war experiences. Peace is really the greatest success of the European integration process. And that is why the SPÖ is and remains a convinced European party, fully committed to European unification, in its entirety and not as a piece of work, as suggested in the form of nuclear Europe or similar ideas. That is why we are also convinced Europeans, because we know that many problems of the present and the future can only be solved in a larger framework. You think about climate change, you think about cross-border crime or the challenges of globalisation. Social democracy has always been a European movement, indeed an international movement, only from the realization that capital is also working internationally. If the legal framework remains national, then this cannot work permanently without the interests of those people coming under the wheels that have no more than their labour force. And that is the vast majority of humanity. If the legal framework does not work, this vast majority will be on wheels several times, as employees and as consumers. [[Abg. Strache: The "Gitti Ederer-Tausender"! The pensioner's letter!]] And precisely before this situation, we are now facing price explosions in the food and fuel sectors. They mean not only a limitation of quality of life, but an existential threat for many people. The causes of this are diverse. We know that. Many are unaffectable, many but very well. And here there are a lot of studies proving that these price developments are not due to real demand increases, but simply to speculation. And since the Austrian Federal Government proposed a speculation tax at the European Council in June 2008 to intervene regulatoryly. And I deliberately say “the Federal Government”, although Mrs. Foreign Minister Plassnik has already expressed himself in the run-up to this summit – I would say – very distant on this proposal. As a result, what we did not wish for has also come to light, namely that this proposal was simply scrapped off by the conservative and economic-liberal majority in the European Council or pushed to the long-term bank. It has been decided that half-hearted measures are not suitable for weitems to cover the root problems. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a very great opportunity to put in place confidence-building measures. And trust-building measures are urgently needed in order to get the people back into the boat, trust-building measures are necessary to get hold of price developments, trust-building measures in general in the social field are a necessity to save the European idea. And since, in my view, it is clear that it is the conservative and economic liberals who, regrettably, in the institutions of the European Union, have the majority that destroy this European idea if they continue to ignore the most pressing problems of the people. And that's where we say as SPÖ, as social democracy: Stop! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also say stop if the conservative and liberal forces want to install a project by elites for elites – whether it is that Commission President Barroso picks up to the general Austrian abuse, if one does not think in this country the way he would like it, or if it is that Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner is publicly ashamed of Austria. That's what I'm saying: We must by all means prevent politics from galloping away without a people!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e8979	Next, Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9000	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! What does an entrepreneur need, what does the economy need for an investment decision? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: “Security! ”]] – It needs legal certainty, now apart from market information. The economy needs legal certainty and needs reliable framework conditions! If I look at the line that has been pursued in recent years, it was a clear line. Austria has benefited greatly from the accession to the Union and from the European project. I quote from a broadcast of the “Socialist Correspondence”: “Up to 1989 Austria was on the edge, 50 kilometres away from the Iron Curtain. Today we are at the centre of the new free Europe. And like no other country, Austria benefits from economic developments.” For example, Austria has created and secured the largest return from these countries and most jobs through enlargement in terms of investment in the new EU Member States. “What we say about this successful path, which has led to more prosperity and more jobs.” – quoted Alfred Gusenbauer. And the Secretary of State tells us: We can't hear this success story anymore! - Why can't we hear them again? Because there is another quote from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, also from the 9th century. April: “In my opinion, the negative mood in parts of the population has little to do with the EU and even less with the reform treaty.” ‘It is rather a valve of dissatisfaction,...’ And there lies the approach, ladies and gentlemen: With your own policy, with your own indecisiveness! Because, consider: Now bring to the economy, bring the location very different conditions! They want to vote if the reform Treaty changes. And I ask you – some of these quotations are from the 18th century. June –: What's changed? What has changed in the EU? Why do you suddenly discover the people and have agreed to six Treaty amendments since 1995, Mr Cap, without touching the citizen? Now you touch the citizens at once! What initiative have you taken at EU level? Where did you inform Mr Barroso – ‘Barolo’, as you say to him? Where did you try to convince him? - Nothing you've done! You have written only a letter to the “Kronen Zeitung ” according to the circumstances, according to polls! And I have to say: I have never experienced anything bigger in the negative sense of worship. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The individual gentlemen who have written this have disqualified themselves accordingly, both Mr Faymann and Mr Gusenbauer – that is their problem – but they have also done a bear service overall to politics because many have the prejudice, opinions and decisions in politics are directed towards the media – and you have confirmed one thing! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I would suggest: You can still do this! You can take the reader forum of the “Kronen Zeitung” to the standard for your election program. On the basis of which you make decisions, then you can give up your own opinion anyway! Yesterday, the Federal Chancellor said: We do not want to discuss the form, but the content! - That's where I have to tell you: That's kind of funny. If you really are serious about what you have written, then this is a departure from the previous EU policy, a departure from the previous principles. They will be in the EU by the secure partner, from the reliable partner to the unsafe partner. And what you will be for the location Austria: They'll be incalculable. You decide according to the “Kronen Zeitung, ” according to daily politics, according to your moods. - It can't be. Second point – this is even more problematic –: If you don't mean it seriously – just as some commentators write: in fact, no change in the contract is before, the ÖVP is supposed to take this a little bit more calm! Then, I tell you, it's even more worrying. Then take the reform treaty, then take the important EU consensus issue abusively for propaganda purposes, to distract from your own difficulties! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For this, ladies and gentlemen, the location Austria has nothing but nothing left! We need the economy, the business location needs continuity, the business location needs reliability, the business location needs clarity. And that is why we do not need a zigzag policy à la Faymann, à la Gusenbauer, but rather a very clear line!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9049	Now comes Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Five minutes, too. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9070	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the house and also in front of the screens! First of all, to my previous speaker, Mr Mitterlehner: It has already been a joint government of SPÖ and ÖVP, which has ruled this country over the last one and a half years and has not really done much in Europe's policy, especially in the social field. So it wasn't just the SPÖ, you're both part of it. – This has only been noted in your direction as a small correction. I find it quite surprising that German chancellor Gusenbauer, who has initiated this swivel, this 180-degree turnaround of the Social Democratic Party of Austria into an anti-EU line, does not sit here today, but sends all kinds of representatives and does not defend himself here. I find that very unfortunate, but it seems to be exactly that picture that the SPÖ has provided in recent days: They don't want to rule anymore! And to colleague Grossmann: They first meant that the SPÖ was a convinced Europe party. – I believe that your great former chairman, who has also been focusing on Gusenbauer, named Kreisky, would turn around in the grave in view of what your party has done in recent days, namely this kneefall in front of a boulevard magazine – and precisely in front of that newspaper that has contributed to this negative attitude towards the European Union in the last few weeks and months! [[Congratulation by Members of the Greens and the Agg. Morak.]] Now, of course, there is much to this European Union, which we also do not like, which many people do not like. It is clear that, in recent weeks and months, confidence in the European Union, as well as in policies as a whole, has been very much affected by policies at national level and those at European level. This also has to do with the fact that governments like these have not helped to explain to the people that this Lisbon Treaty contained many positive elements: for example, more democracy, even for this Parliament here. I haven't heard from any of you yet! This Parliament would have more rights, the European Parliament would have more rights, the Treaty contained a Charter of Fundamental Rights, such fundamental things! – You have always meant, well, you should have explained it to the people to a greater extent. – Explain alone is not enough. It has to do with politics: It is necessary to regain confidence, indeed also to take action! Because you mentioned that SPÖ has proposed a speculation tax: Well, “wonderful. ” Do you know what you – this federal government here in Austria, you here in this Parliament – could have done? – Accept that there is a preparatory law for a financial transaction tax – à Tobin Tax, which is perhaps better known – on which speculations are taxed in such a way that those at risk are no longer profitable. We could have done this here in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our request for it was a long time ago. – But: No, we don't! The EU should do so. – We are the EU, ladies and gentlemen. That's also this government that's been sitting here! And you didn't put these actions there. They haven't been looking for allies in the fight against the Atom lobby, which is now becoming strong again. [[Abg. Strache: You have also voted for the doubling of the nuclear miles in this Constitutional Treaty!]] We've always heard: We're against nuclear power anyway, but we can't stand it! There are still individual governments in this EU – there are some states, and there are majority in the population! – all against nuclear power! Where have you been looking for the allies, for example, Ireland, to fight against them? – No, always: Unfortunately, we can't! [[Abg. Strache: You have also strengthened the atomic lobby!]] What about the social sector? – Social policy must also be developed at national level. My colleague, third President Glawischnig has already said: Where have your topics been? For example: Absence tuition fees! – Before yesterday or yesterday, broukal: Yeah, let's do it. – Now the SPÖ says again: No, of course it will not vote against the EIA. - Or: Where were your initiatives for a minimum wage at European level after purchasing power in each country? I didn't hear anything about it! That is to say, this confidence in the European Union is not won by kneefall, by bubbling in front of a newspaper that is the strongest, but which massively polarizes against a common Europe. It can't be. Now to what we want Greens – and I come back to a statement from you, Mr. Klubobmann Strache: They have meant that the next elections we are now in are also going to be a vote by the people on politics in this country. - I'll give you that. But will they be a decision on the direction that this Austria will take? Will this Austria close to a narrow, narrow Europe, where only national identity counts, where social benefits depend on what kind of passport you have – or will it become a world-wide, European, liberal and solidarity-like Europe for which the Greens stand? [[Abg. That's right!]] That's why this election campaign will take place!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9164	Mr Vilimsky has now come to speak. Five minutes, too. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9185	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Demissioned Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A sentence in advance to the BZÖ, because it is always said there are now 6 to 8 percent of the BZÖ's consent. The fact is, you're confusing something like this: It is not 6 to 8 percent, but six to eight weeks that you will still spend here in the House! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You said that before the last election, and it didn't happen!]] With as much dishonesty as you live – by, for example, your EU spokesman Herbert Scheibner regrets that the Irish have voted with No, and also regrets that the ratification process cannot continue – if someone swings so much from time to time, you will get dizzy by chance! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] You shouldn't let this go. [[Call the ÖVP:Don't look at him anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen, a few basic remarks: I want to take the opportunity here today – perhaps a little unusually – to wish the German Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer all the best. He was someone who didn't leave out a fat cap, he was someone who broke with you almost all the promises he made, but: He was open in all directions, he was democratic and he was, if you like, a bridge builder, because he did not rule out cooperating with all the fractions of this House. They then flattened it on the red guillotine. The last bridge he has been able to build in politics was one that has reached Portugal, because there he is now to become a construction consultant for any group. I'll tell you: What you've done has nothing to do with solidarity and friendship – even though you're constantly stratifying these terms – but what you've done is simply inappropriate! Listen, don't be spared today. And the person to take the place of Alfred Gusenbauer, Mr. Faymann – of whom you yourself say that he is “smooth than an eel”, that he is making a “teflon policy” – falls back into this old socialist Vranitzky doctrine, saying: No, with the other political groups – for example – there is no cooperation! [[Abg. Strache: But the Molterer too! He also spoke after the Vranitzky doctrine! ... ‘Firewall’!]] He is one who leads your SPÖ in a direction that will look like you will no longer be the chancellor the next time, but that you will be the vassals of an EU-wide policy of this group, possibly under a chancellor Molterer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me now also say a word to the ÖVP: They represent the whole thing as if anyone who does not bend his knee in front of the altar of Brussels were a high traitor! They represent this as if anyone who does not support this EU policy – which no one can see from the population any more – would be in favour of someone who is supposed to come to political failure! – This is a policy that is diametrically directed against the red and white-red interests. You should learn a little about democracy, constitution and the state, because Article 1 of our federal constitution does not mean: “All power goes from the ÖVP”, but: All power still goes from the people in this republic! – You should write that in your parent book. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the third time, they deliberately broke elections from the fence: 1995, 2002 and now again 2008. And I'm saying, You are the instability factor in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Who has Knittelfeld...?]] [[Call at the ÖVP:... itself rang 2002!]] They are the ones who, because of their party-political sham hats, take the Republic into account because of their power-political considerations! – If I am going to, you will have to repay the costs, the millions of euros that the taxpayer now has to cover for your actions, even from your cash register, in return for the election cost. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you were once a party that has committed itself to nature conservation, to the environment, to co-determination, to democracy. - That's all over. Today you are the party that lies on the black carpet in front of the ÖVP central, saying: Please, please, let's rule! We're ready to throw everything over the pile! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You may be next on the ÖVP's food plan and, if you have successfully pushed into the government, will not last even a year. I can say that to you here and today. – But They will receive so little approval from the population that it will not be calculated. And I'm telling you, it's good. I think the population today, when it thinks red-and-white-red, has only one choice – and I am convinced that the majority of Austrians still think red-and-white-red and not the way you share this annoying saying: “We are Europe”. – No, we are not Europe, we are primarily Austria! And that is also to say! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer holds a red and white-red scarf with the label “Austria” in the height.]] Whoever thinks and wants to act red-white-red today remains only one party, and that is the Freedom Party with our Obmann Heinz-Christian Strache! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9338	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9359	Madam President. Dear representatives of the Federal Government on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! Mr State Secretary Arbitrator was lonely at the beginning and sitting alone here on the government bank and, so to speak, also highlighted the benefits of the European Union and how Austria benefited from it. Of course, through the Easter expansion, the Austrian companies operating there benefited. The tax revenue of these companies has also been transferred to Austria. But that's the only thing! . He has formulated the appeal that we should come to a civil Europe close to us, to a social Europe. Only: What has the European Union contributed to this? – The euro has become a teuro. In the meantime, only 12 out of 27 countries have introduced this single currency, and all complain of a price increase. The Austrian national state does not oppose, nor does Europe. Luxembourg has an official price stop with high fuel prices. Austria has not responded here. The Federal Government was unable to act in this area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You could have had an official price stop: Until then, there is the competition, and no more! – Mrs Brinek once told me that this is just like the eastern block with the plan economy. – Well, the market economy alone is not the cure. We in Austria have agreed to carry out a social market economy. And that must also be true in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Klubobmann Cap has declared today that the wrong situation in Europe is at last gone away, that we have to get away from this miscarriage and to a level. - I'll give him all the right. As far as the arrogance of certain European Commissioners and Members of the European Parliament is concerned, I am also quite right to do so. I have seen for myself how the Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection Kyprianou in Brussels, at the time, declared full power before a consumer protection meeting: If someone takes a product out of the shelf and has already exceeded the expiry date, then he himself is to blame! – This is the arrogance that appears in Brussels. You talk about flexicurity again and again, about being flexible. Only: Being flexible can not only go in one direction, it must not be a one-way road, it must not only affect the economy, it must also have benefits for workers. There is now a working time directive. The Austrian Minister of Labour Bartenstein agrees to an extension of working time from 48 to 65 hours per week. That's where the question arises: Where's that going? In Ireland, people wake up: There was a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, and the Irish voted against it. Some EU Parliamentarians Already felt obliged to say, for example, the Austrian EU member Swoboda from the S & D Group, that Ireland was actually excluded from the European Union. They're already wondering: Where are we? I am glad that you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, have experienced a shift in opinion polls in Austria, in which you have fallen among the 30 percent mark in terms of your popularity, namely that there is a rethinking on the issue of Austrian social democracy. But it took a very long time to get there. We have a lot to do on this question, ladies and gentlemen, because what is going to happen now from the European Union, which was an economic union from the beginning? Will it now also be a monetary union, which will be further expanded, or will there be, as it were, two “speeds” in Europe? Are we moving with the European Union towards a state? Or will it remain a nation of states? Which direction is this going on? All of this would have to be discussed in Europe and discussed in individual national states in order to create a truly civil, social Europe. As far as health policy and European social policy are concerned, it is true that, although every EU citizen in each EU country may be treated at the rate of his home country, the rest of the country must then pay for it. As a result, for example, any Romanian or any Bulgarian can be treated in a hospital in Austria, but the Austrian taxpayers or social security contributors will have to pay the remaining amount. – You have to tell people that too! Once upon a time, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that, in future, when ratifying EU treaties, the whole EU people will be questioned that a survey takes place not only in the individual states, but also throughout the EU, for anyone who refuses to vote can not expect to receive the citizens' consent for the period of a legislative period. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9441	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:23:03]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9463	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] The following template has also been received: Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 564 of the Supplements. After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on one of the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any contradiction? - That's not the case. That's why I'm doing this. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9637	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that Mr Grünewald has requested that the Scientific Committee report on the request 1/A, University Law 2002, be limited to 9. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that a number of further requests for deadlines have been received. I'm going to announce this. Mr Steinhauser asked the Justice Committee to report on the application 816/A, Federal Law amending the Criminal Code, a period of until 9. to sit on July. Mrs Mag. Lunacek requested that the Justice Committee report on the application 3/A concerning a federal law on the creation of a civil pact be limited to 9. to sit on July. Ms Mandak requested that the Family Committee report on the request for a federal law establishing a “father-month” be limited to 9. to sit on July. Mrs Sburny requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the request 15/A of Deputies Sburny, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Party's Law be limited to 9. to sit on July. Mrs Mag. Brigid Weinzinger requests the Equal Treatment Committee to report on the application 60/A concerning a federal law amending the Party Law, the Club Finance Act and the Public Service Act (promoting the participation of women in politics) a period of time until 9. to sit on July. Mrs Schatz asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the request 337/A concerning a minimum wage law for a period of up to 9. to sit on July. Mr. Dr. Zinggl asked the Constitutional Committee to report on the request 643/A concerning a federal law whereby the Federal Law on the Return of Art Items from the Austrian Federal Museums and Collections and the Law of 1. On 1 August 1895, a period of until 9 August 1895 on the judicial procedure is amended in civil disputes. to sit on July. In the order in which I have read them, all requests for time-limitation will be put to the vote after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9754	The debate on points 3 to 5, 9 to 16, 17 and 18 and 19 and 20 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9779	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of nine “Vienna hours” has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green and Free 108 minutes as well as BZÖ 63 minutes. The meeting will be held live by ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the period after the current hour for the declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor on the reform of government and the subsequent debate by 1 p.m., transmitted by the ORF: First of all, a statement by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-President with 12 minutes each, then a round of 10 minutes each, then a speech by a member of the government with 7 minutes, then a round of a group of 5 minutes each, then a speech by a member of the government with 7 minutes, then a round of 4 minutes each, then a speech by a Secretary of State with 4 minutes and finally a round of 3 minutes each. The President-in-Office of the Council, after consulting the presidents of the club, shall distribute to the five political groups the speaking time remaining for the last round at the same time each time before the beginning of the final round. Actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast has ended. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:27:49]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on Government Conversion
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9831	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item: Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on Government Reform. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to make his statement. There are 12 minutes of speaking time agreed. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e9863	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for my declaration today is the restructuring of the Austrian Federal Government. Since yesterday, there has been another aspect: probably the forthcoming resolution of Parliament or the end of the current legislative period. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the two retired members Günther Platter and Doris Buresganz for their work in the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] At the same time, I would like to see the two new members of the Federal Government, Dr. Maria Fekter and Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, all the good for her work, at least in this legislative period, only wish for more short-term activity. [[Abg. Street: For summer holidays!]] [[Abg. Ing. What about Silhavy?]] Ms Silhavy has been a member of the Federal Government and will now no longer be a State Secretary, but a Federal Minister. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true! She was a State Secretary and not a member of the Federal Government!]] I assume that she will do this with the same bravour as her activity before it: carefully, attentively and serving the welfare of people in this country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's meeting also gives me the opportunity to take a short look at the one and a half years' activity of this Federal Government. We started in 2007, after very difficult coalition negotiations, in order to achieve a change in Austria in a few key points, resulting from the needs of our country. Our first and top goal was to use the good economy to reduce unemployment in Austria and to ensure that more people get into employment. This has been achieved together with the Austrian economy and with Austrian workers. We could reduce unemployment from 5 per cent to 4.1 per cent. It has succeeded in reducing youth unemployment. And we have reached a new peak in employment. In addition, a number of improvements have been made for workers, such as overtime allowances for part-time employment and full social security for free workers. There is a minimum wage of €1 000, negotiated by the social partners. It has thus increased the level of social fairness in our country. It is important to me to note this because the last one and a half years have not been marked everywhere in Europe by a reduction in unemployment and a strengthening of social fairness. This has been achieved in Austria to a limited extent and at least in terms of reducing unemployment, and we can be proud of it together. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question of social fairness, of course, also has to do with the issue of combating poverty. A significant step has been taken here by the double increase in the compensatory allowance rate, de facto by increasing the minimum pension to € 747 per month. In this way hundreds of thousands of people who had been below the poverty line by then could be lifted above the poverty threshold. This is a very important step towards social cohesion in our country. Furthermore, it has also succeeded in improving social fairness by introducing a limit on prescription fees of 2% of the net monthly income, so that the path to two-class medicine is not taken and also does not raise the question for older people: Can I still afford the medicine or not? There was also a preference for the increase in the pension for 2009 to 1st. November this year agreed and decided, because we believe that there should be a stronger rate of inflation, especially for older people. The House has also decided – and this decision is taken with 1. It entered into force on July – that the unemployment insurance contribution of low-income workers must either not be paid or significantly reduced so that those working people who have only a low income – and that is about one million in Austria – will experience a relief in this situation. With this, Austria has become a bit fairer, a lot more social and just, and I think that is the right way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A third point which seems to me to be very important is the question: How can opportunities for children and young people in Austria be increased? We have jointly decided to expand childcare facilities, and after long and difficult negotiations there has been an agreement with the countries on this. We have agreed on a flexible child allowance, which, in particular, allows mothers more choice when and under what circumstances they want to resume their work, whether they want to stay at home for shorter or longer. That means a flexible child money has created more options. As an important step towards strengthening the chances in school, we have set the maximum number of school students to 25 per class, gradually starting last year so that teachers have more time to deal with the children. This is just as important a measure as the fact that there is a mandatory level of language and that in the future those who will not reach school maturity in time must be required to attend the kindergarten last year so that there is a chance that they will first learn German and then enter the school equivalent. These were first steps to more fair and fair distribution of the opportunities of children and young people in Austria. In addition to the points that could still be raised, such as modern judicial policy or massive investment in infrastructure, but also the fact that we have taken climate policy seriously in all the shortcomings to be settled, it must be said that, of course, sufficient work would remain for the rest of this legislative period. Unfortunately, the health reform, which would be very important for the future of a high-quality Austrian health system, has failed in the negotiations. Unfortunately, there has not been a comprehensive state reform, which was less so to the parties represented here in the Austrian National Council, but much more to the relationship between the federal government and the countries. It would have been necessary to carry out the long-term need-oriented minimum security so that people can be taken out of poverty and we do not decide to pay poverty but, on the contrary, to provide a springboard so that people can return to education, non-profit activities or to the first labour market. There are a number of tasks to be carried out concerning the issue of care. There are 400 000 people in Austria who receive care benefits, waiting urgently for the care allowance to be increased to a sufficient extent, because, due to the inflation development and the long-term increase in the care allowance in 2005, there has been a real devaluation of the care allowance. It must not be forgotten that the care allowance is an essential part of their income for disabled people in Austria in particular, and for them therefore the non-increasing of the care allowance means that their chances of living and living are restricted. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Austria is facing three key challenges. The first challenge is that everywhere in Europe we face an incredible wave of inflation, which has a major impact on energy prices and food prices. It must be said that answers are first found at European level in order to limit this price, and that, secondly, we are setting up measures at national level that are suitable for those groups most affected by the price, to provide support or compensation. When discussing how to relieve the lower and middle income groups in the course of a future tax reform, we are discussing creating a more socially just form of the penalty rate, and these are the essential steps that could help to limit the impact of this wave of inflation on people. The second challenge I see is that Austria is in a good but challenging situation at the same time. We are in a good situation because we are also well anchored in the new markets in Central and Eastern Europe, but at the same time competition is getting stronger and stronger. Competition will only be offered if we decide to carry out a very massive educational offensive in Austria, and not allow one fifth of the 15-year-olds to remain behind in education policy. In my opinion, this is a question of survival for our country, which will ultimately be answered together. The third challenge is that which concerns everyone today and we are increasingly in Austria: that, in all economic progress, the question of social cohesion is a very crucial matter for the future, not only for the individual concerned, but for social cohesion as a whole. I am convinced that one cannot see how not only people with small incomes but also larger parts of the middle class develop fears about the future, because they have the impression that there is economic progress, but they are not taken along this path. The question of social cohesion will therefore be a very crucial question for the future of our society. There will be a debate over the next few weeks and months, in which, ultimately, all the political groups in the House will have to give their answers to the issues they consider important and which they consider important. I hope that there will be a fair competition for this. I think it is right that Austrian social democracy should start by saying that it will continue its commitment to social fairness in this country, even if it is not easy. [[Abg. Strache: Not a dangerous threat again!]] We will ensure that the medium class, which is increasingly under pressure in Austria, will be relieved in the future. And we will make our contribution to the fact that all young people in this country have the same opportunities. For this is important not only for justice, but for the advancement of the whole country!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e10003	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer the word for 12 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e10027	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “It’s enough! ”]] Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. We have just delivered a proof in the last few weeks, we have provided the proof: The European Football Championship, ladies and gentlemen, was a sporting success, it was a success for Austria. And above all, it was a real experience to be able to host a safe football European Championship in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I therefore thank the security executive, the colleagues of the police, also the German army, that this security in Austria was offered not only to the Austrians but also to the guests. I am expressly grateful to Günther Platter, who, as Minister of the Interior, did this work well for Austria. I thank Günther Platter for his work in the Ministry of the Interior, and I wish Günther Platter all the best and good in his new responsibility as head of state of Tyrol. Thank you very much, Günther Platter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today we welcome the new Federal Minister for the Interior, Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter. I voted for Maria Theresia Fekter as an interior minister and suggested her because she is an experienced expert in this field – you know her. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because it's enough!]] She was her longtime colleague in this House as a judge. Maria Theresia Fekter has experience in the Federal Government, in the work of the Federal Government, and with Maria Theresia Fekter the security is in good hands, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Who knows Maria Theresia Fekter knows: She's consistent. It is, if necessary, also equipped with the necessary hardness. It has enforceability, and it has the necessary human measure for fair solutions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do you heat them then?]] Consistent and fair – these are Maria Fekter and the security policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, we've had a new situation since yesterday. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “It’s enough! ”]] And I would also like to inform you quite openly and honestly, ladies and gentlemen here in the House, of why I made this decision yesterday, why I am voting for new elections, why I invite you to take this route of new elections and why I am convinced that we must create new conditions in this country with these new elections. Why? – Of course, it is true that much has gone on in this Federal Government, but in recent weeks and months we have had a situation in this federal government that we have actually been unable to make many important decisions – many important decisions, for example, in the security field. We have long discussed the issue of sexual offender file and the intensification of penalties: That hasn't come yet. For a long time, we have discussed the question of giving the police the necessary tools – for example, online arrest: This has not been possible. We have long discussed far-reaching decisions in social policy and in many other areas: It was no longer possible to decide. Well, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a development that the path of common ground has no longer been visible in a very crucial question, namely in the question of the red and white-red policy of commonness to represent Austria strongly outside together. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When was that?]] If in politics a situation arises that nothing goes – I say it very openly – and that the path of commonness will be abandoned, then a decision must be made in democracy, and the decision is called a new election. I am in favour of this decision, it is now correct and necessary, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore a very crucial question – yes, I say this, important also in my responsibility – which is now given: How is this election debate progressed? What is it about in this election debate? This is a very crucial question, ladies and gentlemen, and I see that as follows: We must create clarity through and with the new election, clear conditions in Austria. Austria needs clear conditions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Tight: Clearness on all levels!]] We need such a decision to be reliable in politics. The people in this country expect a clear line from us; they expect a line to be implemented as well. Reliability in politics is an important category! People expect honesty – honesty in the sense that we cannot promise more than we can keep, ladies and gentlemen. This is the most important thing in this country: no more promises than we can keep. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] People in our country rightly expect an effective federal government – a federal government capable of answering the important questions. That's what I want: Clearness, reliability, honesty and ability to act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you also go in opposition as a third force?]] What are these questions? Where do people expect us to answer? This is our common responsibility, as no one can steal from it. We do not, we give people answers to these questions. There is, of course, the subject of security. And security, ladies and gentlemen, is so important that the Austrian People's Party is certainly not available on this issue. We are very consistent in the security question, because people simply expect and need this consistent line from us. [[Abg. Street: Consequenced savings course! Minus 5,000 executive officers!]] That is why there will have to be some very crucial points, such as the question of giving our executive the instruments it needs to deal with crime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, when it comes to immigration, we also need to speak plain text: Integration before immigration and, of course, the mastery of the German language before someone comes to Austria. These are essential tasks of security policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] The second major challenge facing us is: We must fight for every job in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why didn't you do all that?]] The economy, ladies and gentlemen, has a difficult situation ahead, I would say. We know that growth rates have already been better. And there is a need for someone who has experience in economic policy, who knows in economic policy how to ensure growth, and who also knows: Economics is not a self-interest, it is about jobs in this country. The fight for every job, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely crucial. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this perspective for the workplace and for the location of Austria, a concept of the eco-social market economy is important, where the growth perspective, the sustainability perspective and the social perspective are shared. This has made us strong, and I want to do so in the future. This means that we relieve people – relief in particular for the middle class and relief for the families with several children. The fight for every job is important in the perspective for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Social security is quite natural in the future for Austria. Social security is just as important as the safety of the workplace. There we have some issues ahead of us where we need to go new ways. [[Abg. Strache: When it comes to social security, you are the completely wrong contact, Mr Vice-Chancellor!]] In the care question, for example, ladies and gentlemen, the previous one is not enough. In the care question, new answers are needed – answers that continue to grasp, answers that are more courageous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] My answer is therefore: Let's create a care fund! Let's get the care out of the social assistance system! Let us take a new path, where it does not mean, first of all, someone needs to be a social assistance beneficiary so that he gets care money or care. – No, we need new ways of social security! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, social security is also part of the fight against inflation. [[Abg. Street:..., if 20 percent of the value is lost!]] The fight against inflation, ladies and gentlemen, is the great new challenge for all of us. This is the challenge on the one hand in the economic sense, but above all in the social sense. Assistance to those concerned is important, and ultimately a clear responsibility must be created in Austria. [[Abg. Strache: Sleeping for the last two years!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What I don't want to end, but actually go to the center: We need a reliable and clear policy for Austria in Europe. Europe, ladies and gentlemen, is not available. Europe is not the gameball for populist tactics. Europe is so important that this question must be left out for everyone – because it is the question of the future – one of the issues for the future for Austria. [[Abg. You're not talking about Europe, you're talking about the European Union!]] I consider the European perspective to be so important that, as an observer of the Austrian People's Party, I say: In the Austrian People's Party, people know how they are. We are for Europe and we want to improve Europe where improvement is needed. These are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, why I invite the electorate to this decision, a decision for clear circumstances, a decision for reliability in politics, a decision for the honest path and a decision leading to an effective federal government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e10353	Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The next five Members will each have a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e10374	Ladies and gentlemen! The absurdity, quite embarrassingly, of this situation can hardly be overcome: At the time, Ionesco could not have written a paradoxical, absurd play. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with greens and FPÖ.]] In a fiery way, the best Minister of the Interior is always presented to Parliament, with less fiery words the most zealous woman minister of all time – and at the same time we know that this Federal Government is relinquishing because of proven inability to act, resigning because of joint inability to act and taking place new elections in autumn. That's the fact. What we are experiencing here with the idea of two new ministers and a Secretary of State is basically a symbol, a symbol of the waste of time and energy of this federal government, which she has conjured to us over the months, if not even for a year and a half. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is little original to say that this was the worst big coalition in this country since 1945. Both government parties – I don't know how to weight it – have spent all their energy on it and have been wasting their energy to do maximum damage to each other, practically from the first minute, but at least for a year. I can remember an interview by Minister Buchinger – that's exactly a year ago – in which it meant: Yeah, we don't have a line, we're suffocating in front of us, new elections are not going to be out of hand. – That was in June 2007; another 12 months has dragged it. This was a lost year for the Republic of Austria, a lost year not only for us MEPs but for all those who would have been urgently needed for the reforms. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] With each month that has passed, the course that had to be set has not been set. The best example is what happened on Sunday evening, namely the final failure of the reform of the health insurance companies or the safeguarding of the financing of health insurance. There was no one outside a small circle of SPÖ and ÖVP politicians at all to see what it was all about. It was clear: ÖAAB against economics within the ÖVP, red trade unionists against black trade unionists, depending on who defended which skewer species. So much was clear: Everyone in his, everyone for his sluggish species, as far as the cash registers are concerned. Only one thing you have not been interested in, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, namely the interests of the patients. Each of us will be sued sometime, sooner or later – God be it! - I'm sick. And there is a need to ensure that the medical services that take place in medical services are of high quality and above all that they are financed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that's exactly what you owe the population with the Debakel on Sunday night. There is no security to finance health insurance. We do not know at present how the cash registers will survive autumn. The only thing you've taken care of is that the interest rate burden – the interest burden! – from health insurance institutions, in particular local health telephones, increases and increases. Oil and gas prices explode, not only since yesterday, Mr Cap. Have you perhaps noticed since January that the oil and gas prices are exploding and what that means to people? Where is the great effort of this Federal Government to provide help, for example, in the exchange of oil boilers against other heating plants, in the thermal insulation of houses, the pressure on the federal states, at last to do everything possible to prevent this development in the interest of the population? – It didn’t happen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do you know where it happened? - In Upper Austria. Yes, that is true, on the initiative of the Upper Austrian Government, Upper Austria is now in the pole position, as regards solar installations, as regards the use of solar energy, as regards wind energy, as regards renewable energies, as regards the policy “Rouss from oil and gas!” That's true, but that's not what this federal government owes. You are sumptuous, you are sumptuous with a tax relief of the middle class on 1st. January 2009. Now that the government has been put on the ground, no one knows at all how it should continue. In this context, we will put in place another motion for a resolution, which will then be read by Eva Glavischnig. You do not register that now at the start of the holiday there are 180 000 children without a kindergarten, without regard to the fact that parents may not have the opportunity to make holidays at that time, at the same time as the kindergartens close. There's been some reförmies in the schools. - Yes, it is. The universities have been left alone with their problems, and for research and science, weitem is not done enough. The Vice-Cancellor today described the security policy x-fold in his speech. I'll tell you something. In security policy, SPÖ and ÖVP abuse a section of the Criminal Code, a section directed against organized crime, against the Mafia, against those people who trade drugs, trafficking in girls, and enrich themselves in such activities. For this, this section of the Criminal Code is here. – And these paragraphs you are using to lock up a dozen young people who are involved in animal welfare – for animal welfare! – who no man has ever done anything to harm! I believe that this is a very clear abuse of this section of the Criminal Code, and I consider this kind of intimidation policy to be a disgrace to the rule of law in the field of animal welfare. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: But justice is already justice? - That's dangerous! That's very dangerous!]] Mandatory German courses, one more word for this. – Mr Bundeskanzler! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! A Ukrainian mathematician who is to be appointed by the University of Graz, who is famous for his abilities in mathematics, must prove German skills. – Don't you make fun of that? [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] My faculty, my institute called a famous American economist to our faculty 20 years ago. Are we interested in how well he can do German? - No! He gave his lectures and seminars in English. He has now learned something German. - So what? Managers in international companies, in many international companies in Vienna have English as an official language. Do you want to prescribe German? - That's ridiculous! On the other hand: A tomato picker in Lower Austria – and I know such companies, many have Slovak seasonal workers – has to be able to pick German to pick tomatoes? – Make such ideas She's ridiculous in front of the entrepreneurs and the workers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, red-and-white-red politics is more than that, you have to look over the edge of the plate! The Greens are presenting to you the invoice for these twelve lost months in the form of a motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] For good measure, as the English say, four further mistrusts, namely for the refusal of leadership, for the non-perception of leadership, for the non-coordination, the standstill and the mutual blockade in that country. First: Motion for a resolution by Members Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Chancellor The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Chancellor is in the sense of Art. 74 B-VG does not trust.” Secondly, Motion for a resolution by Members Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance shall be, in the sense of: 74 B-VG does not trust.” Thirdly, Motion for a resolution by Members Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is defined as follows: 74 B-VG does not trust.” Fourth, last but not least: Motion for a resolution by Members Van der Bellen, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology is in the sense of the Art. 74 B-VG does not trust.” These four persons were substantially responsible for the coordination of the federal policy, for coordination in the Federal Government and are therefore responsible. I have no doubt that SPÖ and ÖVP will disintegrate these applications; of course, they will do so. But we of the Greens want to maintain and document what we think of this kind of energy waste that you have operated in the Federal Government, namely: nothing at all! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e10504	The five motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Klubobmann, Dr Van der Bellen, are all sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is not necessary to try the countless newspaper comments, newsletters of the population or statements of the opposition to describe the catastrophic state of the SPÖ-ÖVP coalition. The government parties themselves are very concerned about this, as the above-mentioned citations election is strikingly evidenced. Standstill rules Austria. The SPÖ-ÖVP government has been in the permanent dispute since it took office. The severe coalition crisis in March of the year was only overcome for a few weeks. "A Year of Work" exclaimed German Chancellor Gusenbauer at the time, "we have recognized the signs of the time," then assisted Vice Chancellor Molterer. There can be no more talk of that today. The 95-point work programme, which was announced at the time, has not yet been implemented. SPÖ and ÖVP have now reached the absolute low point of their coalition relationship. Nothing goes further, there is only more disputed: about Europe, pension automatics, care fees, compensation rights, wealth growth tax, integration measures, gay marriage, health reform, and and so on. Perfect standstill, mutual paralysis, permanent dispute and inability to act characterize the picture of the coalition. The Federal Government had a lot to do with its arrival in January 2007. There was talk of major reforms. SPÖ and ÖVP, for example, wanted to achieve a major administrative and constitutional reform with their 2/3 majority in the National Council. But that didn't happen. The government motor stuttered at the descent and never came on tours. It was only in proportion to staffing that one agreed, whereas large weightings remained completely out of place. Mutual blockade on all major projects marked from the beginning the image of the Federal Government. Thus, on June 30, 2007, Social Minister Buchinger noted in a newspaper interview: "The question of new elections is a question which cannot be rejected by hand. At the moment, the coalition looks like it’s going to be swung and not pulled at a strand.” Today, about a year later, this diagnosis of the Social Minister is more true than ever. The Federal Government is so concerned with internal cross-borders, with unclear leadership structures and with a European policy zigzag course that it is no longer able to face the major challenges and future issues of Austria and Europe that require an urgent solution. There is virtually no more a subject on which agreement can be reached between SPÖ and ÖVP. In the short term, the non-existent federal policy may not disappear. But with every month that goes by, there are no differences: In the case of kindergartens, schools, universities, the issue of the discharge of the middle and lower incomes, equality between women, climate protection, the problem of high energy and food prices, care, health policy, minimum security. These problems and challenges do not disappear just because the government does not work. On the contrary, they're getting bigger. Valuable time is wasted in a responsible way. On the track, citizens who have to watch this unworthy spectacle, whose living situation does not improve, but worsen, in view of the inability of the government. 15 major challenges for Austria Austria needs an effective government. The population rightly expects answers and solutions on key future issues, such as: 1. Measures against climate change - radical transition to renewable energy instead of dependence on expensive oil and gas 2. Budgetary priority for education and training 3rd. Equal opportunities for women, particularly in the labour market 4. Permanent social security for all (minimum insurance) 5. Ecological and social tax reform - tax reductions for all those who need it instead of tax sugars for 3000 million Foundations 6. Integration instead of seclusion – for a world-wide Austria 7. Strengthening citizens' rights - Security without a surveillance state 8. Constitutional reform - uniform catalogue of fundamental rights 9. Responsible participation in the development of the EU 10. Development of public transport 11th@item: inlistbox Durable care for everyone they need 12. More offers in childcare, Papa-Monat 13. Investment in the future – research and technology 14. Health reform – safety of the health system without restriction for patients 15. Fighting new construction of risk nuclear power stations in Austria Limit Federal Chancellors and Vice Chancellors have blatant management weaknesses. They are no longer able to lead a government. Transport Minister Faymann has failed in transport policy. Instead of finally improving and expanding the offer in public transport to help hundreds of thousands of donors out of the oil price trap, billions are still pumped into road construction. Apparently, Faymann, as the government coordinator and today's double half of the SP peak, is so concerned with the government chaos that he is no longer capable of action as a transport minister. Minister for the Environment Pröll continues his permanent failure in climate policy unabated. There has been no change in the Federal Government's climate summit either. Nor will the climate protection law presented by it change that which is nothing but a toothless “climate accounting” but cannot replace the missing measures. Austria threatens billions of severe penalty payments due to the failure of the Kyoto target. Minister for Energy and Economic Affairs Bartenstein is fighting more climate protection in Austria and at EU level. He is responsible for an eco electricity law that drives an emerging, innovative Austrian eco-energy industry into ruin and destroys the chance of tens of thousands of jobs. Minister of Family Kdolsky has failed in family policy. Austria will miss the EU target (30% of the 0-3 year olds are expected to have a care centre by 2010) for the extension of the childcare facility. Instead of extending the opening hours of kindergartens to improve the compatibility of work and family life, it is still a reality that many kindergartens are closed in the summer time. BM Kdolsky has not taken any measures to reduce the high financial burden on families, it blocks the introduction of a papa month. As Minister of Health, Kdolsky has also made a more than unfortunate figure in recent months, as the failure of the health reform is currently impressive. Minister of the Interior Fekter, like her predecessor, BM Platter, wants to continue the hard and inhuman course on issues of integration and the right to stay. The surveillance state is to be further expanded. Anxiety, the business of the FPÖ and the proceeds is the foreign exchange. There is no courage to see integration as an opportunity and to implement a decent, decent and fair integration programme. The new Minister for Women, a difficult heritage, has not been able to make any progress in women's policy. The situation for women in Austria has not improved. It should be feared that in this important field of policy, the non-thin should continue. In his government statement on 16.1.2007, Chancellor Gusenbauer said: “Great coalitions are not in themselves good or bad. It is about what the two partners do, how they deal with each other, how open they are to opposition proposals and initiatives or from outside Parliament. Short: It is about whether the risks are being hit or whether the chances of such cooperation are used." After a year and a half it is clear: This federal government has not taken advantage of its opportunities. It would be irresponsible for the citizens to continue this standstill. This coalition is in the end. New elections are the only way out. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following comments: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is in the sense of the Art. 74 B-VG does not trust.” [[Quoted print version removed]] This federal government is at the end. The disastrous state of the SPÖ-ÖVP coalition has clearly described in recent weeks top politicians of both parties how the above-mentioned citations choice proves striking. Yesterday's announcement of new elections by ÖVP chief Molterer is the admission of the total failure of this federal government. SPÖ and ÖVP leave behind a disastrous balance sheet: For Austria, the two previous years have been lost years. There was a total standstill. New elections were therefore the only possible way out of this political deadlock. The responsibility for the failure has to be taken over by both government parties. Both government parties have pursued only one goal: To do as much damage to each other and to remain in power at all costs. First and foremost, German Chancellor A. Gusenbauer, Neo-SPÖ-chef and government coordinator W. Faymann, Vice Chancellor W. Molterer and government coordinator J. Pröll are responsible for the total failure of the SPÖ-ÖVP federal government. They have not managed to cope with the acute crisis of government and to work for the people of the country since they took office. The SPÖ-ÖVP government has been in the permanent dispute since it took office. The severe coalition crisis in March of the year was only overcome for a few weeks. "A Year of Work" exclaimed German Chancellor Gusenbauer at the time, "we have recognized the signs of the time," assisted Vice Chancellor Molterer. There can be no more talk of that today. The 95-point work programme, which was announced at the time, has not yet been implemented. Instead, it was disputed: about Europe, pension automatics, care fees, damages law, wealth growth tax, integration measures, gay marriages, health reform, etc. The Federal Government had done a lot on its arrival in January 2007. There was talk of major reforms. SPÖ and ÖVP, for example, wanted to achieve a major administrative and constitutional reform with their 2/3 majority in the National Council. But that didn't happen. It was only in proportions of personnel that one was agreed, with large weights remaining completely out of place. On 30.6.2007, Social Minister Buchinger noted in a newspaper interview: "The question of new elections is a question which cannot be rejected by hand. At the moment, the coalition looks like it’s going to be swung and not pulled at a strand.” For a year, it “was bred there. ” The major challenges and future issues of Austria and Europe remained on the road. Very much valuable time was lost unutilized, in central questions there were no differences: In the case of kindergartens, schools, universities, on the issue of cost-effectiveness, gender equality, climate protection, the problem of high energy and food prices, care, health policy, minimum security. On the track the citizens and citizens who had to watch this unworthy spectacle, whose living situation did not improve, but worsened, in view of the inability of the government. In his government statement on 16.1.2007, Chancellor Gusenbauer said: “Great coalitions are not in themselves good or bad. It is about what the two partners do, how they deal with each other, how open they are to opposition proposals and initiatives or from outside Parliament. Short: It is about whether the risks are being hit or whether the chances of such cooperation are used." After a year and a half it is clear: This federal government has not taken advantage of its opportunities. This coalition is in the end. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following comments: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Chancellor is in the sense of Art. 74 B-VG does not trust.” [[Quoted print version removed]] This federal government is at the end. The disastrous state of the SPÖ-ÖVP coalition has clearly described in recent weeks top politicians of both parties how the above-mentioned citations choice proves striking. Yesterday's announcement of new elections by ÖVP chief Molterer is the admission of the total failure of this federal government. SPÖ and ÖVP leave behind a disastrous balance sheet: For Austria, the two previous years have been lost years. There was a total standstill. New elections were therefore the only possible way out of this political deadlock. The responsibility for the failure has to be taken over by both government parties. Both government parties have pursued only one goal: To do as much damage to each other and to remain in power at all costs. First of all, Federal Chancellor A. Gusenbauer, Neo-SPÖ-Chief and government coordinator W. Faymann, Vice Chancellor W. Molterer and government coordinator J. Pröll are responsible for the total failure of the SPÖ-ÖVP federal government. They have not managed to cope with the acute crisis of government and to work for the people of the country since they took office. The SPÖ-ÖVP government has been in the permanent dispute since it took office. The severe coalition crisis in March of the year was only overcome for a few weeks. "A Year of Work" exclaimed German Chancellor Gusenbauer at the time, "we have recognized the signs of the time," assisted Vice Chancellor Molterer. There can be no more talk of that today. The 95-point work programme, which was announced at the time, has not yet been implemented. Instead, it was disputed: about Europe, pension automatics, care fees, damages law, wealth growth tax, integration measures, gay marriages, health reform, etc. The Federal Government had done a lot on its arrival in January 2007. There was talk of major reforms. SPÖ and ÖVP, for example, wanted to achieve a major administrative and constitutional reform with their 2/3 majority in the National Council. But that didn't happen. It was only in proportions of personnel that one was agreed, with large weights remaining completely out of place. On 30.6.2007, Social Minister Buchinger noted in a newspaper interview: "The question of new elections is a question which cannot be rejected by hand. At the moment, the coalition looks like it’s going to be swung and not pulled at a strand.” For a year, it “was bred there. ” The major challenges and future issues of Austria and Europe remained on the road. Very much valuable time was lost unutilized, in central questions there were no differences: In the case of kindergartens, schools, universities, on the issue of cost-effectiveness, gender equality, climate protection, the problem of high energy and food prices, care, health policy, minimum security. On the track the citizens and citizens who had to watch this unworthy spectacle, whose living situation did not improve, but worsened, in view of the inability of the government. In his government statement on 16.1.2007, Chancellor Gusenbauer said: “Great coalitions are not in themselves good or bad. It is about what the two partners do, how they deal with each other, how open they are to opposition proposals and initiatives or from outside Parliament. Short: It is about whether the risks are being hit or whether the chances of such cooperation are used." After a year and a half it is clear: This federal government has not taken advantage of its opportunities. This coalition is in the end. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following comments: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance shall be, in the sense of: 74 B-VG does not trust.” [[Quoted print version removed]] This federal government is at the end. The disastrous state of the SPÖ-ÖVP coalition has clearly described in recent weeks top politicians of both parties how the above-mentioned citations choice proves striking. Yesterday's announcement of new elections by ÖVP chief Molterer is the admission of the total failure of this federal government. SPÖ and ÖVP leave behind a disastrous balance sheet: For Austria, the two previous years have been lost years. There was a total standstill. New elections were therefore the only possible way out of this political deadlock. The responsibility for the failure has to be taken over by both government parties. Both government parties have pursued only one goal: As much as possible to each other To add damage and to remain in power at all costs. First and foremost, German Chancellor A. Gusenbauer, Neo-SPÖ-chef and government coordinator W. Faymann, Vice Chancellor W. Molterer and government coordinator J. Pröll are responsible for the total failure of the SPÖ-ÖVP federal government. They have not managed to cope with the acute crisis of government and to work for the people of the country since they took office. The SPÖ-ÖVP government has been in the permanent dispute since it took office. The severe coalition crisis in March of the year was only overcome for a few weeks. "A Year of Work" exclaimed German Chancellor Gusenbauer at the time, "we have recognized the signs of the time," assisted Vice Chancellor Molterer. There can be no more talk of that today. The 95-point work programme, which was announced at the time, has not yet been implemented. Instead, it was disputed: about Europe, pension automatics, care fees, damages law, wealth growth tax, integration measures, gay marriages, health reform, etc. The Federal Government had done a lot on its arrival in January 2007. There was talk of major reforms. SPÖ and ÖVP, for example, wanted to achieve a major administrative and constitutional reform with their 2/3 majority in the National Council. But that didn't happen. It was only in proportions of personnel that one was agreed, with large weights remaining completely out of place. On 30.6.2007, Social Minister Buchinger noted in a newspaper interview: "The question of new elections is a question which cannot be rejected by hand. At the moment, the coalition looks like it’s going to be swung and not pulled at a strand.” For a year, it “was bred there. ” The major challenges and future issues of Austria and Europe remained on the road. Very much valuable time was lost unutilized, in central questions there were no differences: In the case of kindergartens, schools, universities, on the issue of cost-effectiveness, gender equality, climate protection, the problem of high energy and food prices, care, health policy, minimum security. On the track the citizens and citizens who had to watch this unworthy spectacle, whose living situation did not improve, but worsened, in view of the inability of the government. In his government statement on 16.1.2007, Chancellor Gusenbauer said: “Great coalitions are not in themselves good or bad. It is about what the two partners do, how they deal with each other, how open they are to opposition proposals and initiatives or from outside Parliament. Short: It is about whether the risks are being hit or whether the chances of such cooperation are used." After a year and a half it is clear: This federal government has not taken advantage of its opportunities. This coalition is in the end. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following comments: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is defined as follows: 74 B-VG does not trust.” [[Quoted print version removed]] This federal government is at the end. The disastrous state of the SPÖ-ÖVP coalition has clearly described in recent weeks top politicians of both parties how the above-mentioned citations choice proves striking. Yesterday's announcement of new elections by ÖVP chief Molterer is the admission of the total failure of this federal government. SPÖ and ÖVP leave behind a disastrous balance sheet: For Austria, the two previous years have been lost years. There was a total standstill. New elections were therefore the only possible way out of this political deadlock. The responsibility for the failure has to be taken over by both government parties. Both government parties have pursued only one goal: To do as much damage to each other and to remain in power at all costs. First and foremost, German Chancellor A. Gusenbauer, Neo-SPÖ-chef and government coordinator W. Faymann, Vice Chancellor W. Molterer and government coordinator J. Pröll are responsible for the total failure of the SPÖ-ÖVP federal government. They have not managed to cope with the acute crisis of government and to work for the people of the country since they took office. The SPÖ-ÖVP government has been in the permanent dispute since it took office. The severe coalition crisis in March of the year was only overcome for a few weeks. "A Year of Work" exclaimed German Chancellor Gusenbauer at the time, "we have recognized the signs of the time," assisted Vice Chancellor Molterer. There can be no more talk of that today. The 95-point work programme, which was announced at the time, has not yet been implemented. Instead, it was disputed: about Europe, pension automatics, care fees, damages law, wealth growth tax, integration measures, gay marriages, health reform, etc. The Federal Government had done a lot on its arrival in January 2007. There was talk of major reforms. SPÖ and ÖVP, for example, wanted to achieve a major administrative and constitutional reform with their 2/3 majority in the National Council. But that didn't happen. It was only in proportions of personnel that one was agreed, with large weights remaining completely out of place. On 30.6.2007, Social Minister Buchinger noted in a newspaper interview: "The question of new elections is a question which cannot be rejected by hand. At the moment, the coalition looks like it’s going to be swung and not pulled at a strand.” For a year, it “was bred there. ” The major challenges and future issues of Austria and Europe remained on the road. Very much valuable time was lost unutilized, in central questions there were no differences: In the case of kindergartens, schools, universities, on the issue of cost-effectiveness, gender equality, climate protection, the problem of high energy and food prices, care, health policy, minimum security. On the track the citizens and citizens who had to watch this unworthy spectacle, whose living situation did not improve, but worsened, in view of the inability of the government. In his government statement on 16.1.2007, Chancellor Gusenbauer said: “Great coalitions are not in themselves good or bad. It is about what the two partners do, how they deal with each other, how open they are to opposition proposals and initiatives or from outside Parliament. Short: It is about whether the risks are being hit or whether the chances of such cooperation are used." After a year and a half it is clear: This federal government has not taken advantage of its opportunities. This coalition is in the end. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following comments: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology is in the sense of the Art. 74 B-VG does not trust.”
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e11324	Next speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e11345	Mr President. High house! Those who have heard the account of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany about one and a half years of government must have been impressed. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] There was clearly a social democratic manuscript here. I just wondered about Mr Vice-Chancellor's speech. What is his reason why he has discontinued the cooperation of this government? He has sounded very malicious, and there has actually been no solid reason for me to explain why this government should not continue to work. It would have been good if the government programme had been further implemented. What does the background seem to be? It was already a slightly packed election speech of the Vice Chancellor and less a summary of the government's activity so far, and I think there must be lessons from it in one point: A government cannot work if a partner in this government already considers: The population has been wrong, that is all wrong. Actually, we would have deserved to put the Federal Chancellor and be the first! From this day forward, there has already been an essential element in the basis for cooperation. This was also noted by repeatedly signaling the coalition partner: You can bring in what you want, what you bring in, is basically not what we consider to be the right thing! It was blocked, it was tried to draw the picture that this government is not operational. It was tried to draw the picture that the Social Democratic Party, which was the Chancellor's Party, could not lead this government at all. That was the strategy, and we already knew it before the year 2000. At the time it was important to draw this image of the government, because the EIA did not focus solely on it, because every step in the government was not carried by the thought: What's good for Austria? - No! Every step in the government was borne by the thought: What's good for the ÖVP? Every step in the government was not taken by the thought: What's good for Austria?, but of the thought: How to become first? What do you have to do to get first place? - That was the base. Now to report with crocodile tears: It lacks reliability, it lacks the ability to act!, and even to have done everything for the image to be as it is, that, I must say, judge itself. The voters will be able to decide for themselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A little strange, and I don't know what Mr. Vice-Chancellor meant by the sentence: “It’s enough!” Did he mean the criticism of Erwin Pröll, who said that Molterer has missing courage and far-sightedness? Did he think that was the beginning of a personal debate? Is it possible that the resolution of this government is going to go forward so that it can no longer come to this personal debate at all? - It looks like it. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] If Erwin Pröll, the great election winner in Lower Austria, believes that the now newly elected top candidate of the ÖVP for the National Council election has no courage and no far-sighted views, I wonder: But what does a chancellor need especially if he wants to carry out this activity? – Courage and wide view! Erwin Pröll, however, told the vice chancellor all this. That is, for Erwin Pröll, Willi Molterer is not a chancellor. That is my conclusion from this criticism. I invite everyone to clarify this even today, but more clearly than Erwin Pröll can't actually be said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have really heard in the Vice-Chancellor's words very often, he's worth laying on safety. – We also value safety. We could have done a lot of things together. However, a little has already occurred in Parliamentary control work that the Ministry of the Interior was of course also a playground of the ÖVP power and personnel policy; a toll house, where one has not primarily focused on what is good for the security of Austria, but only on how to realize itself politically in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – This is the truth, that has come to light; up to the allegations that there would even have been abuse during the last elections. So there was the bad conscience of Pate, when the vice chancellor spoke so much about security. Another point that is of great importance in this context. I agree: A government will then be able to rule if there is team-power and partnership thinking in particular. If you don't have this, if you consider the partner rather as an opponent in a common government, and not as a partner with whom you want to join teamwork – borne in mind the desire to overtake the partner at the next election – then I admit that this seems to have no basis. I was proud of the fact that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has shown the many positive elements of this government work – it is also important to thank him for this commitment; to thank all the members of the government – but there are a few points to be noted. I did not understand why Easter came to this conflict, because the proposal that the discharge of small and medium-sized incomes should be made earlier than in 2010 was sound economic policy and made social sense. I do not understand to this day why there has been this debate at that time! I don't understand why the ÖVP insists that there is a pension to be automatic deterioration. That is to say, a system of soulless computers is to be set up so that, at the end of the day, when important basic data have changed, there will automatically be a deterioration for our pensioners. This is what the ÖVP proposes – but we say no to that, and we remain. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I tell you what I did not understand: there is permanent resistance on almost all social issues of the ÖVP. It would be important to raise the rates of the care allowance, it would be important that there is at last a minimum guarantee, it would be important to introduce the ‘hackler rule’. All of this was and are points of dispute – I deliberately say so – in view of which I have missed any understanding that a party like the ÖVP claims to be a popular party. If that were the case, then it would have to act for these social concerns – and in principle do not block itself if it is important for her to contribute to the fight against poverty, if it is important for her to help when it comes to care, and if one finally realizes that this deterioration in the social situation, which has also occurred in Austria, is already going deep into the middle class. – That you deny! They close their eyes and don't want these discharges! You are sitting here, opposed to it, still attached to a model which, from the end of 2000, has been duly described as a neoliberal economic and social model in the professional language during your seven years of government, namely: no solidarity society, there must not really be social principles! – This is very bad, and that is why we did not go along with it. The health reform has failed in the internal disputes of the ÖVP, and finally, because Mr Neugebauer wanted to fry an extra sausage and meant: You can control all the checkouts, but “my checkout” can’t! – This has, in fact, been the Quintessence and probably also that one has not spoken enough to many of those concerned. I'll tell you something. It was also at the educational debate a discussion with the ghosts of the 19th century. ==References== Mr Neugebauer, because I see you sitting here right now, you have also made sure that nothing changes that everything remains the way it is. The most important thing is your immediate field of interest, and that is unfortunate. I have tried to present this in all clarity and precision, because that is one of the many criticisms. The last point: They say that we cannot continue government work because we believe from the SPÖ that we should actually involve the people, think of referendums in the European Union. They say: No, we are now asking the public whether this is at all necessary for it to be involved in the design of the European Union in the future. – With this, I tell you, you are on the way to wood, because if you want to expand the EU’s legitimacy base, if you want more approval, we cannot continue as before, but we must also involve the instruments of referendum – and to do so we must confess!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e11424	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. He also has a maximum speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e11445	Mr President. Dear government team! Ladies and gentlemen! I find this really touching that the new members of the government have been introduced today, because I wonder why. This could have been a good thing to offer them quickly before the summer break, so that they can go on a well-deserved holiday. In reality, this is also a proof that not only is the most extensive government team in the Second Republic sitting in front, which until now has only demonstrated and demonstrated government inability, government involuntaryness, but you are also quite reluctant to come here and are quickly using a few new ministers, although they will no longer work at all, because the new election date is essentially established – sometime between 21st and 28th. September. This shows that you have had no sense in all these areas. Yesterday, however, a noticeable and audible respiration through Austria has gone, which is to be said honestly. From the beginning of this federal government, we have had to experience how this red and black government has produced great disputes, heavy loads and great chaos and has not been willing to take the problems and concerns and needs of people seriously. You have lived a burden policy from the start – contrary to your election promises! In reality, you have not only driven people to poverty, but you have driven people to the white glow. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In part, the citizens of Austria are really balling the fist in the pants bag, because you are not willing to ensure a discharge policy in this country because you have been in the last years of your government responsibility – although it has not taken much longer than a year and a half; why you have actually decided a five-year period of government for the future, it is still asking yourself, if you have not done so even two years together – not ready to do so. There was a noticeable breathing through Austria, because the cat is finally out of the bag. It was really unbearable what you had to offer: constant mutual ultimates, constant mutual contamination, in reality only an insult and also insult to the Austrians. It must also be noted that you have repeatedly made a policy against your own people – we have spoken about it today – a policy for the EU reform and constitutional treaty, for the constitutional dictatorship. They have been against their own people, against the Austrian population politics, not at all willing to involve, vote, but always talk about the principles of the Austrian People's Party, of the principle question: A heart for this European Union! I'll tell you something. We have a fundamental question for which we stand: a heart for red and white red, for Austria first and then for Europe! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Not vice versa, how you live this today and slide around the knees in front of the European Union Technocrats and make every nonsense immediately. They are no longer prepared to represent Austrian interests in the first place. That is exactly what is at the heart of the political interest in Austria: This is our heartpiece, red and white red has to be our heartpiece. We are committed to our, namely, the Austrian constitution. One cannot simply carry this Austrian constitution to the grave – without a referendum – and replace it with a centralist EU constitution. This is the wrong policy, which will also receive a rejection in our country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] More and more people are not only not satisfied with this completely removed and pre-potential path of the citizens, but are appalled at your coldness. If this implosion, which has now taken place in this government, is assessed, then this is only one last point of a long long chain of developments, borne by pussy, failure, inadequacy. There is no need to make the effort, to work out who is more to blame for whether the ÖVP or the Social Democracy. I say both were equally incapable in this Federal Government. You can fix that already today. When it comes to social responsibility: Where have you been in the last one and a half years of your government when it came to securing pensions in Austria with an adjustment according to the Pensionist Price Index? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – Have been offended You have played our pensioners, the Raubritter in this Federal Government! They were not prepared to ensure a corresponding inflation tax for all taxes. You did the opposite! You, Mr Finanzminister, are speaking today, saying that we are responsible for this. – Yes, where was your responsibility if there has been a 20 % loss of value since the introduction of the care allowance in Austria today? Where is your responsibility when You're not ready to finally compensate for 20 percent of this loss? They bear the face of socially irresponsible policy. They have lived a socially irresponsible policy. You have lived a social ice box policy by not being willing to relieve people on a sustainable basis, and without counter-funding, to relieve them of buying power, even though we have a worse purchasing power than 15 years ago. And then here, both big parties, red and black, and talk about wanting to be state-bearing? – Where are you, then, state-bearing? You have shown with this catastrophic image that you have delivered as a coalition that you do not at least deserve the term “state-bearing”. Italian conditions have brought you to Austria by your failure and your inability to exist as a government for a period of time. They have no political responsibility. We have experienced party-political, tactical games since the beginning of this federal government, but we have had to miss state-bearing responsibility. They also had to miss the Austrians. Of course, it can also be said today that the EIA is not the hort of stability in this country. The ÖVP is already the hort of instability. For the third time since 1995 – 1995, 2002 and 2008 – the ÖVP has now tried to open up a government partner for party-tactic reasons. As a black widow, you deal with the partners. That's exactly the behavior of a black widow: probably caring the partner to death or ruling to death, leading to smoothness, as the ÖVP has lived in all areas. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Be careful with such comparisons! Be careful with such tasteless comparisons!]] But you already have to find a few words to redesign the head of the party, Faymann, on the side of social democracy. This is now presented as a completely new personality, as if he had not been in politics in recent years. I still know Mr Faymann from Vienna City Policy, where he was the Town Councillor. He was already responsible in Vienna at the time when he opened up and opened the social housing and the municipal buildings to foreigners, which led to the fact that today the citizens, 14 000 Vienna, no longer find social housing and are on the waiting list, because this is no longer a citizen's right, as it was before. He, Mr Faymann, who was always there like a soletti in this government, was minister! Yes, where was he, Mr Faymann, when it came to the non-social, yes social, decisions of this government? He was always there, voted everywhere. As a government coordinator, he and his best friend, Josef Pröll, have also taken care that the Chancellor, where he still wanted to define corners and edges towards the ÖVP in the social field, has risen to the brake, and said that this is not because of responsibility, because we are Grand Coalitionaries, Mr. Faymann and Mr. Josef Pröll and Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer. That's exactly the confirmation: These rulers say already today, although they are provoking new elections, that in the future they both, ÖVP and SPÖ, want to ensure the Vranitzky doctrine against the FPÖ, so that after the election they can re-cuff into the large-coalitionary marriage bed, as lived after the Tirol election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All positions have probably already been discussed. Now it's just about: Who's going to be chancellor? Then everything stays the same, the next round goes on. The first person to become is the chancellor. If this is the ÖVP, the Molter chancellor will be. If it's the SPÖ, the Faymann will be chancellor. It is likely that the divorced German Chancellor Gusenbauer has already been promised to the Foreign Minister, and so all ministerial posts are probably already unsealed and dealt with. But that's exactly what the Austrians will know to prevent, because I'm telling you one thing: People are really tired of being papered by you and that you are not willing to put the Austrians at the centre of social responsibility. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Social responsibility for the Austrians first, that must be ensured – not to manage the misery of the people! People are going to work today and can no longer get over the monthly rounds with their wages. And I say it again: Of course, we work to live, and we don't just want to survive when we work. People want to live well when they do something and work. And that's exactly what we need to make sure again. Sustainable discharges for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs so that they can become competitive again against the global players and industry companies, that is necessary! This would also ensure the best basic protection in the country, because if the smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs have profits again, there will also be corresponding wages for employees and employees. We do not need this false industrial lobbyism policy. You lived! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am sure that this election day will be a referendum, a settlement with this irresponsible red-black government that you have lived.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e11539	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel. Also 10 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e11560	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a warm thank-you to Günther Platter, who has been responsible for the House as an excellent Minister of Defense and Interior for six years and has done a very good job – and, as the head of state of Tyrol, will surely continue to guarantee the success of this important federal country. I thank Günther Platter for this work in the interest of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just as a warm welcome to Maria Theresia Fekter. This is a coming home for you, you've been here for a very long time, one of the most exciting delegates, one that was appreciated and respected far beyond the party boundaries. And so we know the safety of Austria and its citizens in your hands. Congratulations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Well, it's true, the actions of these first 18 months aren't bad. There are some excellent achievements. We have great economic data. We will export to an amount of € 122 billion this year. There's never been that before. If one calculates tourism and financial services, we even come to an export volume of more than €170 billion. We are close to full employment. We have a double budget, the financial balance. The gift and inheritance tax has been abolished. Financial market supervision has been reformed. So a very exciting and good performance report in this sector. We have reintroduced elections with 16 in the context of the democratic reform and have made the choice of letters much easier, so we have taken a big step forward. A lot has happened for the families. Child benefit has been increased and flexibilised, especially for more children. We have set a number of accents here. Molterer's idea of making any birth free of charge has brought a huge price loss for young families. This is still to be thanked today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many things have also happened in the social field and in the fight against inflation: the self-employed model of care, which has clearly prevailed, the amnesty for 18 months, the tax stop – which, by the way, has not only covered the ASFINAG or the Vignette, but also, of course, the ÖBB tariffs – which was nothing new. Other points: Pension increases are preferred by two months. ==References====External links== You'll be relieved on July. For the pendlers, accents were set, even for the kilometers. And so on. We finished an excellent European football championship, which was not so obvious at all. Thank you for that. Unfortunately, we have not had the sporting success we have dreamed of, but neither the head of government nor the entire government can be held responsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What was very important – and thus we are on the subject –: The Treaty of Lisbon, this reform treaty, has been ratified. And now I say to one thing very clearly: This was neither a betrayal of Austria nor a kneefall before anyone, nor an EU diktat. Let's stop with these flossels! We're a responsible people's representative. And you and we have, in common conviction, accepted this reform treaty, because it sets up Austria and Europe more democratically and better at this very difficult time. I'll tell you something. A few days ago, Helmut Schmidt was honored. He's 90 years old. I found this incredibly exciting. I was sitting in bed, and I applauded how I later saw it. And he said, When I was a child, I didn’t imagine today’s united Germany – simply replace “Germany” with “Austria” – in the dream so well. The great performance of the last 60 years has never been achieved by ourselves. It would not have been possible without the integration into the European Community, not without help from our neighbours, not without the end of the Communist dictatorship. We have reason to be grateful. Dear friends! That's the approach we're supposed to see. Yes to this European project, yes to help the neighbours and the neighbours, yes to the European Union, knowing that it can still be significantly improved. But let us stop with these floscles of “treason ” and“ knee fall ” and “dictture ”! This is not worthy of a people's representation in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on Green MEPs.]] Yes, it is a very bitter day for me today, because this end of the coalition after 18 months is of course also a failure of a project I wanted. I'm saying this openly. I have no pleasure in it. [[Ironic cheerfulness as well as intermediate call at the SPÖ: You don't believe that yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in these 18 months – and I would now recommend a little self-return to the SPÖ – from the beginning, there has been a huge dispute in the SPÖ: with its own partyobmann, on the course, on the government programme, which was jointly decided and signed. There's been a dispute with each other. There's been a lot of conflict with us. And today we are even disputing with the European Union. Because you mentioned Easter, Mr Cap: Check what was said in the newspapers at that time! We were not responsible for the internal crisis of SPÖ. I am saying this very openly. We are happy to assume responsibility for many things, but not for your own discussions, which have ultimately led to the overthrow of the Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course, politics is the crucial criterion, including the crucial currency of trust: Trust in yourself, trust in your own course, trust in the common course, trust in your partner. And if you don't have the confidence of your own people, you don't have to take your own lead, then of course you also lose confidence in the population. The results of the elections have proved and demonstrated this. Of course, they have also lost our own confidence in it partially, gradually. And the step today is ultimately the consequence. But the hardest vocabulary – I don't want to quote it today – came from your own personalities: whether Franz Vranitzky, whether Heinz was hurt, whether Helmut Zilk, or Wolfgang Radlegger, whether Thomas Nowotny, I don't want to quote them at all, you know it anyway, and it must have hurt you. [[Call the SPÖ:Erwin Pröll!]] – Erwin Pröll has voted for Willi Molterer’s course today in the party board – that was unanimously – and we have unanimously chosen Willhelm Molterer as our top candidate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's the difference! – After 18 months of the SPÖ, you have killed your own party president, your own party president, who has at least returned the office of Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. And I wouldn't be particularly proud of that in your place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have experienced something – and thus we are on the subject – which I personally would not have thought possible. 14 days ago, in the Council of Ministers – and I am going to remember this for a long time – the Foreign Minister said very strongly because of the Eurobarometer, we simply have to do more, and she has already set up many initiatives before. And then there was a very open, exciting discussion. Faymann said quite clearly at the time: We will take another course: Yes, but, it's our parole. - I've written this to myself. With “Yes, but”, ladies and gentlemen, you will reach little, for there is the yes so small and the But big. At the same time as we discussed this, of course, the famous letter from Faymann and Gusenbauer had long been sent – without information from its own party bodies, without information from the President of the Federal Republic, who at least for an hour received the President-in-Office of the SPÖ, and without any information from the coalition partner. [[Call the ÖVP: Kneefall!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a kneefall in the method and content as it has never been in the Second Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But you do the same kneefall in front of Brussels!]] I also say openly to you that I think this is embarrassing in that one has to act out of conviction. You can also go down with your conviction, not a question, but you have to stand. And it is not for this reason that the boulevard wants to do so or because there is a change of mood, toss practically all the principles and beliefs overboard. Ladies and gentlemen! We have ratified the Treaty of Lisbon together, and I hope you have made it just as we believe. We are an elected representative, and we stand for parliamentary democracy. We are good enough to advise and vote on tax laws, pension reforms, education issues, international treaties. Ladies and gentlemen! If Wilhelm Molterer has said that it is enough, then that is true in that, when Gusenbauer said something in an interview in the “South German” that scared me. Gusenbauer said there: You sometimes have to cross the Rubikon to go to the opponent's camp. – Does this mean that one suddenly believes that we can move something in this peace project, throws overboard to go to the camp of opponents who speak of betrayal, knee fall and EU dictatorship? Ladies and gentlemen, we can't be there! And so I say quite openly: The betrayal of this central idea is not just a betrayal of a joint government program, it is a betrayal of your own soul, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e11728	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. He also has a maximum speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e11750	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear greeting also to our Styrian friends from the Styrian BZÖ on the gallery, which I warmly welcome! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: They're there too? These can be presented separately, Mr Westenthaler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Is this the general assembly?]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – What kind of excitement is there? I'm just kind. I also ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, Why, what about a government reform today if this government has already failed? That's a little bit like a football team that's already gone down in a Bundesliga buys new players again. Mr. Bundeskanzler and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, the team is still down, it is useless – you too are going down with this government. It is a shame for Mrs Fekter, whom I have learned and appreciated here in the House as a diligent and competent colleague. But you too, Mrs Colleague, are unfortunately being heated up in this coalition, and you probably regret that you said yes when you did not know that this government is going down the stream. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter shakes his head in no way.]] Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, a sentence only to you because you spoke of treason. Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, I accept and respect your heart and your conviction for the European Union. No one will take that from you, that is to accept. However, you too must accept that it can never be a betrayal, but a logical consequence in democracy, if you stand up for the participation of people and our citizens on crucial issues, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel. To say that is important to me. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that will be a crucial question in this election in September. Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, with the ÖVP you have now broken new elections from the fence, and you advertise the votes of the citizens in autumn. Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, you want the votes of the citizens in the autumn, but when the citizens needed your vote here in the House, namely for a popular survey and a referendum, you have denied the citizens their votes. That doesn't fit in. One cannot always be against the co-determination of people for years and every five years in the elections want to have their votes. I can't. I therefore believe that you will also suffer shipwreck at this election, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, and the ÖVP will not become stronger. I'm convinced of that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To the coalition itself. This great coalition has taken place – it is also quite large in personnel – to solve the big problems. What remains is a great damage, a large catalogue of open questions and a great failure of these two parties in the government. And I am convinced that when you vote in September, both of you will get a little smaller – because the citizen has seen through what you have done with this country in this impotent, powerless and, last but not least, pointless government. This government has become pointless because it has recognized the obvious problems of people in their lives and has not solved them. There is nothing for your half-balance, Dr. Gusenbauer, nor for your election speech, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer. The balance sheet of this red-black coalition is: Record, the highest taxes, the lowest income, the highest prices and the lowest wage increases. 1 million people live in poverty. Taxation, taxes, fees were further increased. Pensions, care, wages and income were really reduced, not least by inflation. They have robbed people of the purchasing power. People can't afford anything anymore. They have punished performance and rewarded laziness – keyword: Minimum security for all – and you have ultimately resisted cold progression and inflation. In recent months, you have always come and told us: People have fewer incomes, they should work longer – keyword pension automatic. That is to say, a young person 17-18 years old today would have to work after pension automatics up to 70 years of age, would get less money, but pay more. That's your logic: less money, longer work. But the political salaries have raised you silently. Now politicians are being provided with offices. This is where the National Council is still being praised, although the National Council is disbanding. You have to imagine that! This is a well-paid job. Ministers are presented and praised, although the government has failed. A well-paid job, too. So you're going to take care of it. You have not opposed the price of almost 4 percent by now, but you are sending €600 million annually in net contribution to the European Union. That also doesn't fit in. People don't understand that. We have the highest spray prices and the highest taxes on spray prices, and the oil multitudes cheer because they have great revenues and profits. We don't have money for a tax reduction. The Minister of Finance collects billions more of tax revenue, but does not give people back, sits on a huge mountain, but does not make tax reform. It is also cancelled and moved to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. But we afford to do 779 mandates throughout Austria: in addition to the 183 national councils, 448 country councillors, 62 federal councillors and 77 councillors! All of this is paid by people with their taxpayers, but you don't have money for a tax reform. They increase health insurance contributions, we have the most expensive medicines in the European Union – and at the same time bring You didn't grant any health reform! The red-black proporz celebrates happy originals, it's only about posts in the main association, my dear ladies and gentlemen! They relieve rich people by reducing taxes and foundations, and they are unable to increase the care money. That's a sad record, Mr. Federal Chancellor! You, red and black, have not only led this country into a state crisis through your own party crisis, but you have ultimately failed to do so. Now there is a duel of the failed: Faymann versus Molterer, well wonderful! Austria has remained on the road, our country, which is moaning under the burdens, is under the daily requirements of life. This has remained on the track, so it takes politicians who scratch the sleeves and say: Yes, we are willing to bring this country out of the crisis that these two parties have brought into. That is what we want to do, for that we are also ready for the future of Austria alliance, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because what is left of you is a political shrapnel, which is actually due to pain. If you were fair, you'd pay pain money and give up your salaries for two months because you haven't contributed anything in the last two months. These two parties, red and black, have no perspective. “It’s enough,” said Mr. Vice-Chancellor, and the SPÖ team is at all in resolution. However, parties without perspective cannot shape the future. That's why we speak – so that this doesn't just go on: yes, we decide new elections, but the Federal Chancellor remains in office, new ministers come – to you today's distrust! I am therefore submitting the motion for a censure pursuant to § 55 of the Rules of Procedure: Distrust of Deputies of Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues, brought to the meeting of the National Council on 8 May. July 2008 in the course of the debate on agenda item 1: Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GOG-NR on government reform The Members who have been signed make the following request: The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Chancellor shall be appointed in accordance with Art. 74 (1) B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, fails to give rise to confidence.’ Because it can't be that you stay in office for just another day and continue to cash beautifully, but don't do anything for people, but put your hands in the lap. That is not what we want, therefore the distrust also against this government and against this Federal Chancellor! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What remains is that, after great promises and announcements, you, red and black, abandon the people. Yeah, you're gonna let people down now too! They run from it in new elections and leave people alone with their problems. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go!]] There is again a pre-potential “go!” from the government bank: from Mr Pröll, the successor of the Lord Molterer. This is superlative and prepotent, Mr Pröll. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They leave people alone with their problems. You know why? – Because even today is a day again – that’s right, not: [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] “Don’t vote!” – where families, where mothers go shopping and because of the high prices, can’t even afford to live; they have to see if they get through with every product they buy! Because there are people, fathers, who can no longer afford their way of work because they can no longer afford the spray for their car as a donor! Because there are people to care for whose families can no longer afford to take care of! And because there are pensioners who have been fed down with 2 percent increase in inflation of almost 4 percent and lose money every day! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the crisis, and from this crisis these two parties cannot lead this country! By the way, not Greens and FPÖ, because their fight for posts, in which it is now about who is allowed to play vice chancellors – Mrs Glawischnig, is that really the announcement? [[Abg. Riepl: Are you making a single government?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Is that your announcement, your party line: “We want to become vice chancellors!”? – That's what people want to see who's vice chancellors! People want solutions to their problems in the social field, in the security field and in all the other areas they are pressing! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also say: End with exclusion! It must end with limiting other parties. Everyone – everyone! – democratic party in this House has the right to be in the government or in opposition, so we do not exonerate. It is a miserable game with democracy, already from the outset – before elections, if you don't even know how the voters decide – to exclude other parties from anything. Mr Molterer and Mr Faymann, we think this is bad! Or to rule out and refuse to do so – the refusal of FPÖ and Greens in 2006 was ultimately the reason for this great coalition at all. That is, you too of the Greens and the FPÖ are part of the current crisis, are also part of the developments of the past weeks and months. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We're ready. We're ready. Mr Vilimsky, this future alliance of Austria will be even more represented here in the National Council next time! You won't have a nice electoral evening again because we take people seriously and also deal with their problems – in Carinthia, where the Kärntner head of state performs excellent politics and is already around the 40 percent mark there. [[Abg. Kickl: You should not take the election evening into your mouth!]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] We are ready to get this country out of the crisis if we move even more into the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e11943	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. However, I ask Mr Westenthaler and all the other speakers to be more careful in their choice of words, in particular as regards expressions such as ‘prepotent’. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Prepotent” can already be said!]] Next, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Fekter, will speak. Your speaking time is up to 7 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e11974	Mr President. Dear Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It was not a simple decision for me to finish my work as a Volksanwälter. They elected me to this office of the Volksanwälter, and it was a great task for me to be available to Austrians when they were worried. But that's exactly what connects the old one with the new office: I know the problems of the Austrians, and no problem is too small for me! I will therefore always have an open ear in my new office and I will be on the side of the Austrians when it comes to safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They know me through my long-standing activity here in the House and know that I am a reliable partner when it comes to the rule of law in our country and to security in our country. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the basic principle is: Security is a human right. I firmly believe that security, freedom and the rule of law are no contradictions! On the contrary: What does one have of the freedom, of his life, of his possession, of his rights, if the security is not guaranteed and legal enforcement is not guaranteed? – To play freedom and security against each other is an error of people and leads to uncertainty. I'm sure I'm not having for that! I stand by and see it as essential that the police have the best possible craftsmanship available. The criminals are constantly developing, with all the possibilities of modern technology, and this modern technology must also be provided for the fight against crime! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore have little understanding of this if, in view of the constant discussion ‘Can the police do so at all?’, a situation arises with regard to our rule of law in which the police are no longer able to effectively combat crime by the rule of law. The security forces do excellent work. Our police work daily to ensure that we are the safest country in the world and remain. Therefore also from this point of view a warm thanks for this work in the fight against crime and crime, in order to secure the situations and living conditions for our people! I stand behind my police and will certainly not accept, neither today nor in the future, that this great work is being made ready and deliberately made bad. I will not accept it either if, out of party-political motivation, the institution of police is deliberately turned into a false light or specifically hindered in their efficient work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Every employee and staff member of the Ministry of the Interior can rely on me to be a hundred percent behind them as long as they act correctly. But I will also allow zero tolerance for the few “black sheep” in the organization. The Ministry of the Interior does not have to hide behind the Ministry of Justice in terms of the rule of law, but we meet in the eye! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I trust our police officers because there is security in the best hands for our people. We have a device that works perfectly. The EURO has proved this: We have made ourselves positive with a glamour of the Austrian executive abroad and have received great compliments for this very professional processing. Great things have been done! The atmosphere was excellent, Austria offered a friendly, positive, safe picture, and we brought ourselves to the discussion as a host for future events. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, now on the subject-matter: Even in the 1990s, Mr Jarolim, who was my colleague, and also colleague Heide Schmidt, brought me to a close when I held my first press conference as a victim protection. However, I have consistently stuck to this issue, and we have achieved very positive things here in the meantime. But I would also like to make a confession today: With me, victim protection goes against culprit's protection! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] There are still a few things ahead of us in order to make a similar effort and similar sensitivity to the victims in that effort that we devote to the perpetrators in the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the fight against crime and organized crime, we need international cooperation. First-instant condemnation in the first terrorist trial has clearly led us to: As far as terror is concerned, Austria is not an island of the Blessed! Here we must be vigilant and make joint efforts. Terror is against what is worth to us, against the core of our society. It is against the whole system of values: against our freedom, tolerance, respect, respect for human dignity, democracy and rule of law! [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying a sentence on the cooperation of the House of the Interior with the House. I have gained experience as a President of the Justice Committee, and this experience has taught me to have great respect for this House. That is why I have already indicated that the Ministry of the Interior must cooperate with the High House and maintain good cooperation and that we will continue to maintain with regard to the Committee on the Interior of the Interior which we are accustomed to, also with the opposition and also within the Committee on the Interior. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We're just solving it!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign the other day]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12078	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12099	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has stated that the Federal Government has taken many positive measures for Austria – sometimes, often, against continued resistance from the ÖVP! A lot of things would have been to be done. We Socialists would be willing to do so, but the ÖVP has taken away from the joint government responsibility. However, I would like to stress a performance which is based on the action of Federal Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer, namely the establishment of the asylum court, which could be achieved against the long-standing resistance of the ÖVP Ministers and the one with 1. This year, with high legal quality and above all with a rapid settlement of open asylum procedures, has begun its activities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a great success for humanity because the Court of Justice will ensure that asylum seekers know whether they are allowed to stay or not after 18 months at the latest. Cases where someone waits for ten years belong to the past. I would like to thank Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer for his human commitment! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor and also Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter presented it this way: Austria is the safest country or one of the safest countries in the world. Both of them, however, are not saying that the investigation of the crimes has fallen from 51 percent to 38 percent among the ministers of the VP! For this the executives can't do anything, but this goes back to the poor organization and the interventions into this organization from political considerations. In Bavaria, there has been a 55 percent reconnaissance rate for relatively decades, and this clearly proves the failure of the ÖVP Ministers of the Interior. [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... in the CSU!]] High house! If Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer today believes that the sexual offender file is a reason for the resolution of this coalition, I would like to say to him very clearly: This is part of an overall package that has been or is being completed by the Federal Ministry of Justice. It could go to the Council of Ministers tomorrow – but what is missing in order to be able to decide this law in the Council of Ministers tomorrow is part of the Ministry of the Interior! Because the Ministry of the Interior has not developed the so-called legal basis for the sexual offender file. Mrs Fekter will now have a job, so that she can perhaps finish this until the Special Council of Ministers. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I really think it is an unreasonable procedure to say here: You're getting out of this coalition for something you're responsible for. That's a terrible thing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say the following. If Mr. Klubobmann bowl presents us with an ultimatum or presents us with the alternative: either we change our EU line, or there are new elections, then I can only say to him: We, the Social Democrats, stand on the European Union, but we will take the citizens with us in the decision-making processes in the future! [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] If you believe you're going to be successful with driving, I wish you luck. – We will continue to have discussions with citizens in EU affairs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a fundamental comment. The objectives of the Gusenbauer government, which the Federal Chancellor has presented here – to combat unemployment, especially to give young people an opportunity on the labour market, not to allow a two-class medicine, to introduce the increase in the care money, to combat poverty, to finally implement the minimum guarantee that the ÖVP permanently blocks, to make Austria more social and fair – ladies and gentlemen, are goals that we also take into the election campaign! [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Too late, colleague, too late!]] They will also be significant for the future, and I am convinced that social democracy will be very important on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12183	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12204	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Parnigoni, if I listen to you and if I look at what has happened within the SPÖ in recent months, and if you now think that the ÖVP is to blame for everything, I must say to you: [[Abg. Parnigoni: How you blocked!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Mr Parnigoni, no one in this country believes that! No one believes you in this country anymore, and that is your problem, Mr Parnigoni. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: But you only believe that!]] When we look at the last months: The cast builder bashing has happened within the SPÖ and has not come from the ÖVP! Let's remember: In March, during the first major crisis within the SPÖ, when the Vice-Cancellor just tried – and it was also successful – that we defined 95 projects, as this bashing continued within the SPÖ. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's not the point! The sexual offender file...!]] It was possible to track all of Austria! You're not going to make us know that the ÖVP was guilty of it now? – That’s ridiculous what you’re saying here, as is this legend that is taking place here. I should like to say to Mr Vilimsky: The ÖVP has also not paid for the Volkshaus in Knittelfeld; you have already organized it yourself at that time. So, stop it! It has the entire population, all Austrians have heard what has been going on in the SPÖ in the last few weeks and months and that the trigger was, of course, the lack of leadership and the lack of orientation of the SPÖ, so that this government was no longer able to continue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Günther Platter. Under Günther Platter, cooperation with Parliament has worked without complaint, and Günther Platter has managed to network the important Austrian police work with European police work. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That was the Parliament!]] I would like to present this on two points. The first was the Schengen extension. I know there's a lot of worries about that in the border regions. If we look at this today, we see that we are in a better situation today. We have two safety belts: One is the Schengen external border and the other is border control within Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why? There are no more limits!]] There's more security. Europe has used and protected us, ladies and gentlemen, in this case. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where is the border now?]] Second point: The EURO 2008 – perfect preparation in cooperation with other European countries. There were hundreds of police from other European countries in Austria. And EURO 2008 has been perfect in terms of safety. This too is a good example of how commonness can bring more than loneliness. That is why a warm thanks to Günther Platter for his work! I wish him all the best in his role as Tyrolean head of state! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP will continue its path as a consistent and fair security party. There will continue to be a consistent fight against crime. The Trinity: People we need, immigration, asylum and integration will remain the key in the next few years. These are areas that we need to develop further. Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, it should be pointed out in particular that if someone comes to us, he will have to fulfil three obligations in addition to the rights: Learn German, work and join us in our order of life, ladies and gentlemen. We expect that and we demand it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I welcome Maria Theresia Fekter as an interior minister. Competent, consistent and fair – she knows the concerns of the people from their function as a popular lawyer. With it, the security policy of the ÖVP is being pursued consistently, I am sure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12340	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Glavischnig-Piesczek. Five minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12362	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Well, now that a new Minister of the Interior wants more humane execution or even makes more understanding for families in Austria, I don't think much sense anymore. Austria is facing new elections. I do not make any illusions about the new Minister of the Interior. I would like to return to the starting situation. With the new elections, Austria has a new opportunity to take a new path, perhaps also in the field of internal security and integration policy. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Nevertheless, you now bear the responsibility for essentially two years' standstill in Austria. This may be less problematic in some countries – see, for example, Italy – where governments are not capable of action, but Austria has led to a serious crisis in the medium term. The problems have essentially grown larger and not smaller. Many people say they don't understand all this anymore, they don't understand what it's all about at all. At least they have the fixed impression that it is no longer about them to address their problems and solutions the same. They from ÖVP and SPÖ have the consequences for the lack of time, and I would have expected a little more humility today, or at least a little more admission of it, instead of speaking here again election speeches and mutual debt allocations. However, you have an opportunity, and this is now addressed to the Members of the National Council, that no more valuable months – namely the time to vote and then probably until January or mid-year – will have to pass until really necessary discharge measures can be taken, important policy measures can be taken. We now have three more days of national Council meetings, and I cannot and do not want to accept that the two government parties now suddenly understand themselves very well again at the end of their common path, namely in a single point that they do not agree with each other. In this sense: We have produced a large number of requests in this House, many Members have participated and many are still in the committees. Today, we have put forward a whole range of deadline proposals, so that there is still the possibility of solving some problems. I'd like to mention a few of them. The so-called father month. – I know there are also some women and men in the ÖVP who want this very well and want to introduce it as soon as possible. I am sure that we also have a consensus in the area of tax relief in the house, which groups should be involved. I think that we can also immediately make a recovery from health insurance if we do not have certain areas of problem. I am also absolutely sure at the SPÖ that she would like to vote in favour of the abolition of the tuition fees and that it is difficult to accept the fact that one will be re-buffed as a club, as a Member of this House cannot represent his conviction. The same applies, of course, to a legal minimum wage law. All these are offers that we are making to you today, especially to the SPÖ. You promised many of these things before the election, and I cordially invite you to participate, to agree on deadline proposals, to participate in the content debate. Perhaps on Thursday we can decide on some of them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Although you may need discussion on matters of content, there should be no need for discussion on one point. The population is right to say: We've watched one and a half, two years. We have received a few solutions, and we are now being re-elected. That also costs a lot. We have also observed over the last election battles – you certainly also – how the spiral of the election costs has swung up. Finally, a single election event in Lower Austria cost € 1 million. I can also remember election campaign events in Carinthia, where cars were donated, and de facto every dung heap and every barn door was fitted with posters. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where was that?]] Weekly newspapers had to appear twice to accommodate all ads. The results have thus been partly devastating in the last elections, and I cordially invite you all to decide together on an election cost limitation, in the sense of what has already happened in 1975. It was a law that very strongly included the Court of Auditors. In advance, it is announced that you want to spend this and that. This is then made transparent and published in the “Wiener Zeitung”. In retrospect, this then controls the Court of Auditors for plausibility. Whoever has significantly exceeded his election costs, namely by more than 10 per cent, the one who is to be ordered to pay a penalty for the reimbursement of the campaign. This has already been done in Austria. I think that this is a very useful measure, especially in the current situation, in which one has to justify why it is re-elected, why the parties are again receiving millions of electoral costs refund. Today, it might be the only way for you to show a little humility in front of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12409	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. The maximum speaking time of 5 minutes is also valid for you. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12431	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know whether, in particular, the rulers of SPÖ and ÖVP have found some time to listen to the people in the last few days and weeks in which you are dealing with letter letters, strategies and sham negotiations, and what I know has been doing, perhaps also found some time to listen to them, to hear what people think and what they say about what you have been doing for weeks, yes, for months. You wouldn't even notice that there's a qualitative difference between what you used to complain about and how you do it now if you don't know that a new election is coming. But you should have listened a little, for example yesterday in the report, where a citizen just got to the point. – This is not very original, Professor, but he is right! – He said: This is the worst government we've ever had. And it's the same! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen on the left, I look first at you, to the SPÖ. You will certainly not succeed, you will certainly not succeed, this snow of devastation that you have pulled across this country with your broken election promises, with still so elegant hooks, windings and breakdowns, and what I know what you will be doing in the next few weeks, so to speak, to forget. If you exchange your heads and the content remains the same, then this is a transparent game that every Austrian looks through. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you were with me at all the domestic terrorists and you left there a bunch of traces that you can't blur. And even if some of you – most likely – go so far as to sell your own grandmother, believe me, it won't use anything, it will even maximize the damage for you. Ladies and gentlemen! The anti-Austria course is the course that the SPÖ has dedicated itself to. And this also continues with the newly designed chairman and Neo-Bundeskanzler munter. It's already been mentioned, but you can't say it often enough to know where the wind blows: This man, this Mr Faymann, is not the doorstep in Vienna, who has, so to speak, protected the interests of the citizens of the community, but that is the door opener who has held his hands and said: Please, just get in here! And it is now the case that the immigrants in the community building and the Austrians are on the waiting list. This is the SPÖ policy, which is now to be transferred from Vienna to the federal level! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think that what you have done or have not done in the Federal Government so far is going to break in on us as safely as the health insurance deficit, because in view of the construction site which is announced in the ÖBB and where the taxpayer will still get on with what is to be paid for, we will all have to get on with it. Ladies and gentlemen on the other hand, at the ÖVP: You will also not be able to pull the head out of the responsibilities that have already been tightened up. [[Abg. Grossruck: We don't want that anyway!]] The responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen, for a reckless, to this day totally unwise driving in terms of co-determination and direct democracy, which you do not want to know about, because you seem to fear or believe the Sovereign to be in possession of the comprehensive truth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You won't get your head out of this loop! Just as little as you will get the head out of the responsibilities for a social ice age that you have in this country. [[Abg. Murauer: That's ridiculous!]] Yes, you can continue so that the profit and profit pursuit of some few counts more than the legitimate life interests of the broad mass of the population. Then that is what the ÖVP stands for – we liberals will firmly announce the struggle for this policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the key to security has fallen earlier, and there you hear “hard but heartily. ” – Do you know what this hardness is? Not only from you, but also from your predecessor, Mr Platter... – There you have to say, too: He has not been elected in Tyrol, but only his predecessor has been chosen. So, so much for the democratic honesty of the ÖVP! – Mr Platter and Mrs Neo-Minister will not have the time to create the 6,000 people who have been proven to have done asylum abuse in Austria since 2006. No, they still sit there and, so to speak, the taxpayer is on the bag through access to the social system. These are the Zogajs and Zegajs – and as they all are called – and I do not at least trust you to make some sort of order here, Mrs Minister, first because the time is too short, and second, because you have already proved with your party that it is not yours at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you use ÖVP and SPÖ for yourself one more time to be state-bearing parties, this can only mean that you will carry the neutrality, self-determination, freedom and the social state that benefits the Austrians. This is the important role you have played, and you will encounter the bitter resistance of the FPÖ. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Riepl: The time is up!]] Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion: Unlike you, we know what justice and citizens are. – I don’t think you’re going to have to make a swivel of yourself, but I’m firmly convinced that the voter will help accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12558	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. The 5-minute time limit is also valid for you. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12579	Mr President. Values, numerous members of the Federal Government! This government, one of the largest – at least the number of heads – ends up as succinctly as it has begun, because at the beginning of a legislative period, one normally finds a government that sprays ahead of Elan and enthusiasm to deal together with the important and major problems of the country, and which, with a corresponding election result, has four years to do good for Austria and for the population. [[Abg. Riepl: Why aren't you in the government anymore?]] – Yes, that’s how it was with us in 2000, my dear colleague! We were proud that we could do something for Austria, and we did. That's where we have taken off and distinguished ourselves from you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You've had the feeling from the beginning that this is a forced marriage that nobody really wants. And just because green and blue simply did not want to take responsibility, it had to come to this great coalition. And just as scurry it ends now, because – and it is true what one of my previous speakers said – one has actually noticed little difference from the style of the debates. They have fought from the beginning and have insulted each other, so that they often did not know who now is government and who is opposition. Now it was funny that you, Mrs Fekter, were very commendable, and I might also have wanted to be able to discuss with you more often and for a longer time, because we know you as active Members, who are quite right in the security field too – have now promised to work closely with Parliament. I'm sorry. We will not be able to accept this promise, Mrs Federal Minister, because, at the request of your group, we will resolve in the next few days. We can't work with you at all, and you can't do anything about what you've announced, because you can't bring in any more laws, and we can't pass any more laws. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: In the next legislative period!]] So this is a bit of scurrency at the end of this government – and that's not the only cure! The worst government in the Republic, we have heard, although normally a government with a two-thirds majority – I always criticize it because I believe that if a government is equipped with two-thirds majority, for example, the control of the Constitutional Court can be eliminated and many other problems arise – can also implement a lot if it wants to. But we have unfortunately waited for it in vain. For example, to reduce the tax and tax rate. You did the opposite! The first and one of the few actions of this government was to increase the tax on mineral oil. At the time, she promised that there would be a tax reduction in 2010. I have already said that the increase will be safe – because it has lifted the Constitutional Court – and the reduction will no longer come, because then you will no longer be in office. And unfortunately, this has happened. Especially now, where, for example, the price of petrol has increased exorbitantly, where food prices have increased exorbitantly, we would have expected you and the population would have expected you to put more money in your pocket by reducing taxes and taxes, and leave the population – especially the middle class – in your own pocket. Unfortunately, you failed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For pensions: A large government with a large majority has not brought it together to take further precautions, for example, by creating financial spaces for the young generation, just as we have demanded, so that it can carry out its own care, because it is known that this system, as we have today, will no longer be eligible for funding by the demographic development in 20 or 30 years. It would have taken a large majority to do that. But you didn't bring anything in here! Or in the case of health: I mean, the point of failure is really ridiculous: Who controls who? On the other hand, we have a huge financial problem. Why don't you go into the idea of BZÖ and say: Let's go into another philosophy – we don't finance the disease, we invest in prevention with savings potential of €3 billion per year!Unknown term type: "%s".? This would have been expected by a government with a two-thirds majority to approach these great ideas. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or at the state reform: There, the two-thirds majority is even necessary to implement it. Where's the new fundamental rights catalogue? Where are the changes in competence? Where is the administrative reform? – Nothing brought together – with the exception of extending the legislative period to five years. But we have seen how long legislative periods take with this government. So a whole series of measures, a wealth of measures that could have been put in place, for which we have also brought in many, many ideas. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] But it's really true: For one and a half years, and as the “New Zurich Newspaper” writes: “The content and style of the now broken big coalition in Austria thus leave behind a very unsightly inheritance. Their handling could be even more expensive.” – Again, the Austrians should consider this on the election day and pay for it accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12657	Mrs Silhavy spoke from the government bank. 7 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12679	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Johanna Dohnal, the first women's minister in the Second Republic and Social Democratic, stands for a new quality of women's policy in Austria – a quality that can be defined with "independent rather than dependent", and this women's policy path was continued by Doris Bures, my predecessor. This policy is characterised by successes such as – this is a sign that women’s policy is represented with power, ladies and gentlemen! – the redesign of the childcare allowance, namely needs-oriented, that is, based on the needs of the parents, improvements in the fight against gender discrimination in the equal treatment law, gentlemen, weekly allowance for free staff, supplement for more work in part-time work, increase in the intervention agency's budget against violence in order to ensure comprehensive care, promotion of advisory facilities for women, and federal extension of the Internet platform for girls or agreements with countries to expand childcare facilities to give just a few examples. [[Federal Minister Silhavy comes across the microphone, and then he separates himself from his holder.]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dolinschek:... the social partners in the constitutional rank... no longer control the Court of Auditors...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, as long as women in our society are still deprived of equal opportunities, there is a need for a self-confidence, independent, but at the same time solidarity policy in Austria – and for that I stand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Aid instruments such as quotas, women's promotion plans, gender mainstreaming and so on are necessary in order to achieve equal opportunities and to transform framework conditions structurally so that they are non-discrimination-free. I think it is worth noting that the social partners have succeeded in agreeing on a minimum wage of €1 000, but we must pay particular attention to and close the income sheath. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But we wouldn't have needed a government to do that!]] Many disadvantages in women's lives have their root in this very disadvantage, ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore urgently necessary to investigate and eliminate any forms of discrimination, Mr Graf. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Schüssel, and the rapporteur, Mr Schüssel.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: With the..., not much has gone on!]] We need to encourage women and girls even more to choose technical training and to take up such occupations. Gender research is an important access to research, but especially in research, we must also look at the fact that the framework conditions do not discriminate against female researchers. Mentoring as a support to break through the “glass ceiling” is important and, of which I was able to convince myself yesterday at a seminar on business operators, can be used well at all levels. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen, many of the necessary changes are directed towards the future. However, it is also particularly important for me to achieve compensatory measures for the many women who have to come out with small incomes due to their situation in life and employment. As long as women are still disproportionately in lower incomes, additional compensatory measures and creative solutions are needed. This is why the loss or reduction of unemployment insurance contributions for low incomes is from 1. July this year so important: This means that around 850 000 women have net more income at their disposal than before. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] However, in order to relieve those women who earn more than €1 350 gross per month – and who do not count among the top earners in our country – a future tax reform must take particular account of medium incomes, because, unfortunately, much too many women are employed, especially in the lower and middle incomes. From a women's point of view, a discharge in these areas is therefore urgently needed! I would like to stress that I would also like to ask for a deduction for external childcare for low-income parents in tax reform. Many women, not least due to child care obligations, have a low income, but with this they must receive their entire family. We also have responsibility for women who are no longer in the acquisition process, and so we have agreed that pensions with 1. ==References====External links==* Official website Years of the following year, i.e. 2009 – because this is the case again, especially for low-income pensioners. High house! Many women's policy projects are: In addition to a socially just tax reform, we need a reform to ensure high-quality medical care for all people, regardless of their social status. Especially the prevention is an important aspect and often means an incomparable increase in quality of life. I would like to stress one point in particular: Women – wives, lifemates, daughters, daughters-in-law, women in life partnerships – are still predominantly involved in caring for families. It is therefore urgently necessary to improve the framework conditions for these women, also by raising the amount of care. Mr Vice-Chancellor, we were ready to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: We do!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Being ready is too little! That's just too little!]] Finally – I have promised to be fair in my contribution to the debate and to stick to the agreed speaking time, so I conclude – I would like to express my support for the Violence Act. And I can say one last final sentence: Even if this federal government will be in office for more than a short time, I will continue the course that has been set for women and will not tire out, give no rest and constantly raise those demands that enable women in our society to find equal opportunities, as they deserve.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12828	In agreement with the political groups, I set the speaking time of Members for the next round with 3 minutes each and for the last round with 2 minutes each. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12853	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The Social Democratic Government Group has spent a lot on behalf of women in these one and a half years, ladies and gentlemen, and ex-woman Doris Bures, now again in the National Council, is to be warmly thanked on behalf of women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The compatibility of work and family was one of the most important goals, and here has been done a lot, Mr Graf! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] There is flexible child benefit – the new Minister for Women has already mentioned it – and 10 percent of men already use the short leave time. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] This is a great success if emancipation is a heart concern, Dr. Graf! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Kindergartenplatzen, Article 15a contracts – You still know what a big discussion there was about this! 6 000 places more per year here in Austria means for the children, for the parents. It was not always easy to enforce this vis-à-vis the representatives of the countries: I can still remember that the former Landesratin and Landeshauptmann representative of Tyrol, Landesratin Zanon, was very opposed to it – until the last day, until 31. On the other hand, May – to sign this for women, for children, for single-parents, so that work and family can finally be reconciled. One of the first measures put forward by the Minister was the increase in the budget: There was a 60 percent higher budget for those who have become victims of violence in the family, and that is now more than 90 percent of women. A lot has been set in motion here! In my federal state alone, in Tyrol, for example, a regional office was created in Kitzbühel against violence in the family, i.e. a victim protection facility, and that is important! Many more women who have been victims of violence in the family have already been able to turn to such a place. – That was important, because that’s help! There's no woman left alone here! This was a great merit for the former women's minister, who will also be carried on. 1 000 € minimum wage, which has already been mentioned: Over 40 industries have paid less! Here, too, a lot has been set in motion for women. In part-time, there was more than 25 percent when more work is done, for example during overtime. - That's what the women have done. Poverty reduction, migrant report, gender mainstreaming: Behind this bulky word – a FPÖ member once referred to as a “gener-wahn” – there is a lot of, dear ladies and gentlemen hidden! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement.]] It is hidden from the fact that the issue of equal opportunities, including gender budgeting, has to be addressed in the gender question and, and so. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] – We still have a lot to do here! A lot has been set up, but you want to disband the government. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement.]] – The next time we will continue and do a lot for the women here in our country, because they deserve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12953	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Your speaking time is also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e12974	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! High house! It is rather unusual that a government transformation almost coincides with the resolution of Parliament, but this, of course, also provides an opportunity to take stock. It would, of course, be tempting and probably not difficult to act with the same polemics now, as the SPÖ speakers have done to the last and the last Federal Government on women's policy, but I will not suffer this temptation, but I will, in fact, do so sincerely, this Federal Government and therefore also Mrs Bun. Minister Doris Bures particularly thanked for two things: on the one hand, for increasing the financial resources for intervention agencies – that was a very, very important measure, especially in the secondary prevention against violence; here the Minister of Finance has approved a decisive increase in the budget, but it was Mrs Bores, who negotiated this – and on the other hand – here a great thank you to Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky together with Mrs. Federal Minister Bures! – for the flexibilisation of child benefit. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] I believe that this has given many young parents – women and men, mothers and fathers – a great opportunity to expand their life planning model, create opportunities to reconcile work and family especially in the first phase of child rearing. Thank you for that too! I would have liked to see a lot more initiatives taken in the six years between the women's social-democratic ministers not only recognised, but also continued, because many things have been started here, especially in the migration area, i.e. for migrants, but also in the promotion of women, in the qualification of the workplace or in the mentoring system, which has been closed down in the last one and a half years. That is why I would like to welcome the new Federal Minister, whom I welcome here in the House, to continue these initiatives – she has already announced some things that are going in this direction. I met Mrs Bundesminister here in this House as someone with whom you can work well. I would have liked you to have given the gentlemen of your group a little more respect for your respective order, namely, both your country party owner and your Federal Party observer, who did not make their signals to the public in the same way that they attach particular importance to the qualification of a particular office or office itself. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] – You would have deserved better than to be acted by these gentlemen as an embarrassing solution! I wish you all the best! You can also prove in the short time that you are doing something important for women, and we will support you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13035	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. 3 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13056	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! “It’s enough!” said the vice chancellor and quickly left the house. Clearly, it is enough for the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Transport and SPÖ chairmen to: There's no one there anymore. [[Abg. Hornek: This is an important point: Now I go too!]] I'll tell you: It's enough for us too! We are enough to have in the Federal Government an ÖVP-Obmann who is not capable of anything, enough for us to have a new SPÖ-Chairman in the Federal Government who is capable of anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel]] – On the one hand unable and on the other hand capable of everything: This is the mixture that is selected with great probability in autumn. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you still have two days to take Parliament seriously, that you still have two days for emergency repairs to all that you have failed. They could be with us – and there is a majority in this House! – to abolish the tuition fees. You know that if nothing happens, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse must go bankrupt in autumn. We would have a majority here in the next two days to decide on the recovery of the health insurance funds and to avert the bankruptcy of the local health insurance fund. [[Abg. Amon: You have no idea!]] But they say: No, we have remained very faithful to the EIA in the last two days, and Parliament must not decide. – But why do you do that? There is only one answer: They fear that there could then be distrust against individual members of the government, and you have the great and legitimate fear that Werner Faymann could not lead his election campaign in the service car. [[Abg. Newborn: Jessas Maria!]] – I also have the legitimate fear that Werner Faymanndann would be highly oriental in the election campaign, but that is not the problem of the Republic, nor the task of Parliament! You should think of one thing: In these two days, Parliament could contribute a lot to its rehabilitation and also to the SPÖ. Give Parliament a chance! Let us see that we still abolish the tuition fees together, let's see that the cash registers get a chance to rebuild and the Vienna cash registers don't have to go bankrupt, and, Mr Cap, don't run an investigation committee again! – Of course you already have a certain routine: Whenever you have set up an investigative committee a few months before, it will be strangled again with the help of social democracy. I also ask you this time: What do you have if the EIA is protected from the investigation committee? What do you have if a few people of your party can still drive around in the service car in the election campaign, if at the same time the interests of the ÖVP are enforced here again? [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel:... before you we don't need to have one! No one's afraid of you!]] – This house and the Austrian population deserved that SPÖ and ÖVP once do not think of themselves, but of the people and their interests in life. You've got a few hours left, and this is going to be fine. – I’m looking for a little political thought.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13162	The next speaker is Mr Weinzinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13184	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It's the last hours we've been living here together, but we're getting new ministers anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Not yet! Not yet!]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] And with at least one of the ministers, in this case the Minister of the Interior, gets a job, we have a motion for a resolution for her: It is a motion for a resolution with regard to the miserable system of asylum abuse – you have said that you want to address this abuse of asylum. There we have the case of Arizona and Nuri Zogaj, two ladies who are to live with us in Austria and live on because they have provided a medical evidence that they are not to be returned. – There are two women, and that is why this is also the case with the Ministry of Women. Our request is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this would be another way of fulfilling your duty. This also brings us to another key point: What you've been doing in the last two years – it wasn't even two years! – have proved that you are not willing or unable to fulfil your duty to the Republic of Austria, that of our common home country. That would have been your job! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you've always had your own party in mind. At the moment when one has become a minister of this Republic, one is not Minister of the ÖVP or Minister of the SPÖ, because there is no Republic of Austria of the ÖVP and no Republic of Austria of the SPÖ, but there you are ministers of that Republic – and you have not done so. They weren't government-able because you're not working together. They were not state-bearing either because you didn't understand what that means to be state-bearing. You accuse others that they would not be state-bearing, you accuse others – like us – that we would not be able to rule, but you prove that you are not government-able. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It can't be that you just split up here and say, with new elections all this will be directed again. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] Well, that's what I'm going to look at, what new coalitions you're doing, where you've already excluded expressis until one of the candidates! The question that arises for me is whether we can even deal with you, because you are ineligible for government. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign the other day]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13283	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Weinzinger is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13337	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13358	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! With the statement of the vice chancellor that it is enough, he spoke out of the soul to the Austrians. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: But the Austrians are really enough for Vice Chancellor Molterer! The Austrians are really tired of Vice Chancellor Molterer!]] For weeks and months, the Austrians have known what to think of this government: They are frustrated, they are disappointed by a government that primarily argues, then assigns the blame to each other, a government that has begun to solve the big problems, but ultimately has the biggest problem itself and has the biggest problem in its ranks. So far, this government has agreed above all when it came to distributing the red and black spheres of influence fairly, whether they are connected, at the ASFINAG or at the National Bank. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Now it doesn't work either. For, ladies and gentlemen, the cash recovery program has ultimately failed at this power poker, at this power poker, who controls when where. This is really a poverty certificate for a government that has announced that it is making a major health reform and that is clearly failing here. Skurril is really that in this resolution situation we still have two ministerial changes, and it is actually significant to me that, in critical situations, two women have to hold their heads again, a new Minister of Women and a new Minister of the Interior come to a government that is no longer in de facto. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Silhavy, you said you felt very honored that you were becoming a woman's minister. I think it will stay because for all that you have announced, or for the construction sites you have taken over from your predecessor, you will have no more time. And if so great is announced that the minimum wage will be implemented: I tell you, the hour of truth is on 1st. January 2009, because the social partners have announced that they will manage everything until then. And what's on the 1st? January 2009? – There will be They are probably no longer in the government and there will probably not be this minimum wage. Therefore, do not scatter sand into the eyes of the population if you sell it so big. And if you say you've done so much for women of old age: Where did you fail? – They have failed with the Smallest Pensioners! These are thousands of women whose pensions you didn't raise, but over which you just drove over. I therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that I see the end of this coalition government as a great opportunity, a great opportunity for Austria, that in the future credible and reliable politicians will work with understanding and heart for the country and invest where it is necessary: in the discharge of citizens and businesses, in social security and in a health system that does not drift into a two-class medicine. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Time!]] The BZÖ will assume this responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13435	From the government bank, Mr. State Secretary Mag. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13457	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! As Austria's largest service provider with around 132 000 staff and a staffing effort of around €6.5 billion a year, the Federal Government regularly represents a major responsibility for politics. Over the past one and a half years, much has already been achieved under Federal Minister Doris Bures. The record number of apprentices in the Federal Service, for example: At the beginning of the last year in October, the number of apprentices in the Federal Service has reached the record value of 1 084. This is an increase of 16 percent compared to March and a triple compared to 2004. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Improvement for women in the Federal Service, another point: Due to the 25 percent overtime supplement for part-time workers, much could be achieved, also bearing in mind that 80 percent of part-time workers are women. The disability adjustment rate has been significantly increased. On the initiative of Doris Bures, an increase was also decided on for the number of people with disabilities in the Federal Service. In total, the federal government currently employs 4 352 people with disabilities. This enabled the federal government to increase the disability adjustment rate from 87 percent to more than 92 percent in the last year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] The additional fee reform is also on track. After the reforestation of the additional fees in the spring, about one quarter – 152 titles – could be removed in a first step, the additional fees of originally 625 additional fees. The archival privilege of the school institutions has fallen and thus also become the necessary flexibility in our education system. With the decision taken, the administration will also be freed a lot more modern and efficient and thus also from a legal point of view of service the way for a modern school. There is, of course, still enough to do, and I will, of course, use the remaining time to implement the upcoming projects or to bring them to rail. From my point of view, this includes further professionalization of the training of federal staff. It is planned to implement the high-school public management course and to take into account international and generally recognised training within the meaning of the Bologna process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also a question of putting them together in a further step, so that the individual official, at the end of the day, remains the same money in the stock exchange, but can nevertheless be reduced so significantly that it is easier and ultimately also for the public administration, without the individual official or the individual official having to pay for it. Therefore, we also plan that at the end of the more than 600 additional fees will only be left about 240. The uniform new right of service and remuneration is a major point. I believe that you will no longer be able to decide on the right of service during this legislative period, but I am confident that, due to the political framework, we will not be able to present a final draft law, but to define the key points for it. I believe that over the summer months, we can make it quite possible to clarify the key points politically in this area as well. Another point is the administrative reform: In the view of the Ministry of Finance, the administrative reform is mostly about making savings and making more money available to the federal government. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] From our point of view – from my point of view as a Secretary of State for Officials – it is about improving quality for citizens, because the aim is to have highly motivated employees in the public service in order to provide the best possible quality of services for citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13534	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13556	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to start with a thank you: I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor and, of course, his ministers and State Secretary. I also thank Mrs Bures, for the public service – and many know it – is an important guarantee, not only on matters of legal certainty, but also on the economic location of Austria. I believe that even if Mr Vice-Chancellor meant that it was enough, and the EIA agreed on the work ahead of us, we should have done some more. Everything's expensive, people can't afford anything. We had work enough, dear friends of the ÖVP! But we should not make a mistake here – and the next meetings and government negotiations are coming –: We do not always see public service as a cost factor! I have often said this from this speaker's mouth: It is about people, it is about colleagues who provide excellent service. I would like to thank the Austrian public officials personally and on behalf of my group, including the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, very much for their work. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if your strongest head of state, Dr. Erwin Pröll, addresses to you, Mr Vice-Chanceller, the message of how future-oriented the way is, then I invite you to think about whether you will succeed, ladies and gentlemen, here in pushing anyone to the Black Peter, or whether people do not have something like a feeling. I believe that the Austrians have a right to do so, and my previous speakers have already said it: A clear yes to the European Union, but at the time when we discussed the spreads of bananas and cucumbers, perhaps we should have discussed jobs, employment, income situations and the future of people! [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] I continue to wish us much success and the strength that we are implementing this work for the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13610	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Also, 2 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13631	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! It is quite impressive when one SPÖ member after another thanks the Federal Chancellor for the excellent work done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] I mean, it was you, ladies and gentlemen, who had tricked the current Federal Chancellor on the open stage. You're ashamed of it, you don't! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have to answer that and no one else. It is therefore already very unbelievable when you come here and pretend that everything is so wonderful. [[Abg. That's not wrong!]] They have the main responsibility for the situation we are facing. That is not to be discussed away either. It is also no coincidence that it was the clubman of the SPÖ, Dr. Cap, who explained in his remarks why the health reform was unfortunately not possible. After all, Mr. Dr. Cap – and you know that very well – has failed, the health reform is not in individual interests. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: To Neugebauer!]] We have negotiated very seriously, and I do not disapprove of the seriousness of your negotiators. When we handed over a very comprehensive compromise offer to your group on Sunday evening, your negotiators were so amazed at the generosity of our welcome that they would then have to discuss with you for an hour and a half – Mr. Klubobmann – with you the negotiators then discussed themselves – and when they came back, they rejected the package. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: The doctors are glad she didn't come! You can congratulate the medical profession and the patients, they are the winners!]] This is actually very disappointing, because it was not really a question of the fact that the federal agencies such as the social security schemes of the farmers, the traders and the civil servants should be exempted, but of the issue of the maritime health telephone in social-democratic influence. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Strache: It was only €800 million!]] [[Call of the Abg. Dr Oberhauser]] And for their rehabilitation, the whole of the reform is actually about.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13754	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13775	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and here in the House! The two new ministers take up less an office than rather to the election campaign and are at least a clear signal that gives us ÖVP and SPÖ in this election debate: In the Ministry of the Interior, nothing new – with permission, Mrs Fekter, meant content. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: But something good, very good!]] Vice chancellor Molterer has issued the foreign exchange today: German! – German knowledge for the researcher or manager who wants to come to an English-speaking company or project in Austria, German knowledge for those who are famous by him, who we might want to get into the country, German knowledge before entering a marriage if you marry someone from abroad, German knowledge perhaps still from the baby or one or two year old child who wants to come to Austria in the family offspring. This is a family party, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] What the German skills help, I just say: Arigona Zogaj; and the hostile image animal protector has already treated our clubman. In the women's ministry, a new minister, whom we were warmly praised with the words. It seems that in recent years the SPÖ has repeatedly chosen loyalty as the leader of the party as a qualification for the Ministry of Women. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Love Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, this is a fundamental issue for a women's ministry. [[Abg. May. Worm: Very “solidarian”, Mrs. Weinzinger!]] Especially there it is necessary to defend the achievements of tireless women's ministers of the past of your party, to put an end to the income sheath and not to give loyal services to the head of the party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] That's basic falsification. You should take note of this. You made a cardinal mistake when you probably thought: Uh, the women's ministry, in this government. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] But, dear SPÖ, the concerns, the interests of women must never be desired.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13868	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13890	Mr President. High government bank! High house! The real satire is hardly transferable: At the same time as the resolution of the coalition, with the early termination of the legislative period, a programme content is announced by the government bank, as if we still had less than five years ahead of us. Mr State Secretary Arbitrator, your ambitious presentation very much in honour, but I do not believe that there will still be the real political opportunity to implement what you have announced. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrator.]] I had the 2008 work plan printed out: Constitutional reform Part 2, July, Federal Chancellery – you are responsible for this. Dottation Landesverwaltungsgerichten, July 2008, BKA – you are responsible for this. Novelle to the Data Protection Act – developed, it is present, can no longer be adopted. That was June. Public Relations Directive, June, BKA, Code of Conduct – everything is no longer feasible. Perhaps the gods think well with the Republic of Austria that although many praises are presented in advance, real politics is opposed to this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] A word on the position of the Freedom Party regarding Europe: I would like an article from the great Ralf Dahrendorf on 2 October. “ Europe or the Irish question, ” with the subtitles, wrote in the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” on July: Also “Brussels is not Europe”, quote [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr]] "The hopes that many Europeans still combine with the joint action of the democratic states of this old continent are not fulfilled by the realities of the European Union. There appears to be “an irrevocable contradiction between the Europe of solemn speeches and the actual experiences ” All those who criticise us as Europe enemies should do so simply because we are Brussels-critical and because we have been of the constitutional opinion and are still aware that this is an overall change in the Austrian Constitution, and therefore demand the referendum, and that is why we have a "neighbourly policy" which is behind our ears. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13954	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e13977	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! The President has stated in his introductory words that the Federal Chancellor is praised for the Republic and has to serve the Republic. I can add to my understanding of political work and say that not only the Federal Chancellor, but the entire government team, as it sits here, has been promised to serve the Republic and, above all, to serve the population and to cooperate with it, ladies and gentlemen. I wonder, Where was this cooperation, this willingness to work, this problem-solving competence in the last 18 months of this government in various areas? If one takes the price last year – whether it affected food, heating, electricity or rent – there were no measures by the Federal Government to counteract this price. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's not true! Stay with the truth!]] As far as the prices for petrol and fuel oil are concerned, Mr President, last year you managed to increase taxes on petrol and diesel, and now you have, as it were, a farewell gift for the Austrian population by 1st. In July 2008, the tax on heating oil was increased. [[Abg. Street: And rental costs by 6 percent!]] This is a measure that should give thought to all. In the EU reform treaty, your understanding of democracy prevents the integration of the population. If I have the right to oppose our action: In Kärnten, under the head of the state Dr. Jörg Haider, the BZÖ has enforced a cost-effective compensation against the inflation. The opening of the low-cost diesel gas stations in the country allows the population to save up to 10 € for each filling. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, I would like to mention our efforts in Carinthia to collect signatures for a popular survey of this EU reform treaty. We have collected 15 000 certified signatures. [[Abg. Strache: Why didn't you keep the survey?]] That's the difference! It is about taking political responsibility to cooperate with the population and not about how you do not take action and work against the population. Finally, I can only invite the people to go this way with us. The future alliance of Austria is ready to join you all in this work alliance for a good common future! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14044	Mr Neugebauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. – You know the legal provisions. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14069	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. In his breathtaking speech, Mr Cap, said: Mr Neugebauer does not want to allow control in his social security scheme. I'm actually correcting: The public service body has, like other national bodies, a control meeting as in other bodies. We also have supervision in the form of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Social Affairs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Mr Cap, make yourself aware of this before you give any untruths of yourself here.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14113	Mr Köfer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14134	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Klubobmann Westenthaler mentioned in his billing with the red and black direction Carinthia as a model example of a BZÖ-led state. I invite you, Mr. Klubobmann, to come to Carinthia more often. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] - Yeah, that's right. Then you would know that this dramatic sale of the entire Carinthian land assets has now been carried out. Then you would not forget, however, that when selling your own mortgage bank, a friend of the Lord's Chief of State should get €12 million or converted around 170 million schilling only for the establishment of a single contract. I recall the sale of KELAG's own electricity provider, coupled with the simultaneous increase in the electricity price, in order to obtain money – I say this quite clearly – from the party's own football association. I also recall the sale of the Carinthian housing promotion loans, which has now made rents impossible for the housing owners. Not to be forgotten are also the scandals in which our country was trapped in connection with Banda Aceh when millions of tax and donations were put into the sand for the victims of the flood disaster. Mr Klubobmann, you should not forget the immense events surrounding the financial development of the sea stage at Wörthersee. Maybe you don't want to hear that Carinthia has the highest debt in the history of the country. They will also not want to hear that Carinthia has the lowest purchasing power in Austria and – sad but true – that in Carinthia the lowest wages and salaries are paid in comparison to other federal states and that the highest unemployment is in people over 50 and in women. This list could continue for a long time, but one thing you have to admit – and I think you do: If there were not in Carinthia the social-democratic cities and communities that were responsible for jobs and economic progress, we would probably be the poor house of the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14187	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kukacka. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14208	Madam President. High house! ==References== This year, the new SPÖ head candidate Werner Faymannein spoke true words. Faymann said that the Social Democratic Party never really did the change from opposition to government. – We can only follow this judgment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: I'm just curious how you'll bring the government together!]] I remind you, Mr Strache, that in a "standard" interview he also warned of a "fielding against the ÖVP". ==References== February 2008, critically noted that parts of the SPÖ believe that once one is against the ÖVP, one must always be against the ÖVP. That is also true, and that has proved to be the right thing to do. That very campaign, which Faymann warned against, but which he apparently did not insist on, or perhaps did not want to prevail, could also be, was conducted in the last investigation committee, for example. The ÖVP somehow adapted and made bad as a prelude and accompanying music to a possible upcoming election campaign – that was the motto and goal of the SPÖ in the Investigation Committee. This led to discord and additional conflicts in this coalition. For this, you have political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats. One cannot be a coalition partner of a party in the government and, at the same time, in the Committee of Inquiry Alliances of the opposition. That's not how it works if you want to work together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Josef Cap was the author and spearhead of this SPÖ dual strategy. During the current legislative period, Josef Cap has already been involved in the establishment of three investigation committees against the ÖVP, but in addition to high fees for taxpayers, these investigation committees have truly not produced any recognizable results, ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's why you seem to be so hard on turning off the investigation committee!]] Mr Cap, you have only done the business of the parliamentary opposition, and you have thus made a massive contribution to the negative appearance of the coalition! You are also responsible for the destruction of this coalition, ladies and gentlemen. The past untold mixing of political responsibility and legal processing must also be concluded. It must be ensured in the future, above all, that the police and the judicial authorities will be kept out of the party-political pre-judgment and grave struggles, in which, in particular, FPÖ and the Greens have been heavily involved, ladies and gentlemen! This not only undermines the confidence in the legal institutions of this country, but also the confidence of citizens in the rule of law and ultimately the reputation and credibility of the entire political system, ladies and gentlemen. We will not follow you on this path either in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14314	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Rossmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14336	Madam President. High house! Yeah, honestly, it's enough. It cannot be said that in tax policy this government has equipped a small minority, which is not in great need, with tax privileges. June of this year! The rich and super-rich of this country are meant to be – the founders, the private foundations, from the Vlascheks to the flick heirs to the Bartensteins. In the meantime, the vast mass of net real wage losses must be purchased, as a result of very high prices – we have the highest prices in the country for 15 years – and as a result of the “cold progression”. What happens to those who have to purchase huge real wage losses? – They must wait; they were comforted for a tax reform in 2010, which we know today that it will not come. In this situation it is, I mean, time to act. It is still time to act to relieve those people who have to suffer net real wage losses as well as other burdens, such as care, kindergarten facilities, supplementary lessons and study fees. It is still time to relieve this broad mass of people, through a noticeable tax relief. “Sensible” means high reliefs in the lower range, but also a noticeable tax relief for income above €1 130, in the context of a regular tariff relief. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14396	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14474	I call Mr Themessl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14496	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two sentences to Mr Kukacka. You know, your statements made here about our party or the investigation committees actually disqualify you as a politician here in the House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You should go to a dictatorship of the Third World with your statements and not resort to sitting here in Parliament, which was democratically elected. - That's the first one. Secondly, This Federal Government has adopted itself. Despite excellent economic data and despite Two-thirds majority here in this House have not managed to make anything out of it. That disqualifies you. If today Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer, among other things, has addressed honesty, then this has only occurred once, yesterday at his press conference, when he had to admit honestly that this federal government failed. Secondly, he has announced that one can rely on the ÖVP and that the ÖVP stands for reliability. If he meant that one can rely on an increase in the price of the other, that the purchasing power is falling from month to month, and that the population no longer has income, then that is true, then one can truly rely on the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Then you're left!]] [[Call the ÖVP: “Very funny!”]] On the economic policy that this government has established – I almost have to apologize to the Reds. I cannot mention them because they are not at all perceptible in economic terms. As regards the ÖVP: As a result of the price increases, small and medium-sized enterprises have been permanently taxed and the transport industry is in favour of being exterminated. Or haven't you seen yesterday the strikes that will still come to us in the future? We know that the transport industry is suffering from terrible burdens. It started last year with the increase in mineral oil tax. They are endangering tens of thousands of jobs in our country and are unable to bring about relief anywhere. I especially liked one word today: Mr Vice-Chancellor referred to the word ‘disponible’. He said that in some areas the EIA was not ready or ‘disponible’ to other parties either. When you look at the word “disponible ” in dictionaries, you learn that it has several meanings. If Mr Vice-Chancellor has meant that you are not available or that certain issues are not negotiable, he may be right in certain matters. However, the word “disponible” also stands for “present”, for “available” and for “parat” and “present”. If he said with his word “disponible” that he was not present, he was perfectly right, for he was neither a Minister of Finance nor an economic expert of the ÖVP in the last one and a half years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since he was not present, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that in the next Federal Government there is a German chancellor and a vice chancellor, the available, says: for the Austrian population are present and also do something for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14578	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14667	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14688	Madam President. Estimated representatives of the government groups on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This statement on federal government conversion was, as it were, taken up by the new election. It has been repeatedly stressed by the two coalition parties why this was not possible and the other has blocked its own proposals. This is, of course, in the nature of the matter, if two partners find themselves, who were already in many disagreements before the last National Council election. The SPÖ has torpeded the purchase of the interceptors and said that, if it took over government responsibility, no interceptors would be purchased and the study fees abolished. Then the ÖVP Second – although everyone expected it to be first – became and did not want to implement the SPÖ election program. But there was also a lot done at this time – that was also said today. The legislative period was extended from four to five years. That would have brought together any other government. This federal government has probably shot down the bird by raising the social partners to the constitutional rank, so to speak. That doesn't even make your own people happy, because that was total stupidity. It is foolish that chambers which withdraw compulsory contributions, can practically execute members and are not examined by the Court of Auditors, are still in the Constitution and cannot be examined by the Court of Auditors. – That brought this federal government together. Many other things have remained: Tax reform and health reform have failed. The “hackler rule” – both of which have now emphasized – should be continued. The SPÖ used to say again and again: That's the biggest Murks! At the time, we have enforced this with hangings and strangles against the will of the ÖVP. Now to the automatic pension system, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. I say now: I would also like to have an automatic compensation system or an automatic wage increase. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I mean, you feed some braided rottle, there's something coming out – and then we do it like that. I must say to the pension insurance: Pension insurance starts at the labour market. In the case of full employment and in the event of a corresponding remuneration, it will also be secured. Mr Buchinger has already said a few times: It is now true that not only life expectancy, but of course also the contribution payments, the pension level, the retirement age, the federal grant and the contribution coverage have something to do with it. There you can turn different screws, but it is important that you also include value added, saying: economic performance. I also have to say the following: For the self-employed, the federal grant is relatively low, but for the others, for the self-employed, it is relatively high with the farmers. You could turn on this screw once too. It would be very interesting how it is. In particular, there should be a lot of progress in family policy. It is important to reconcile work and family; I believe that strengthening fatherhood through the introduction of a voluntary fatherly month would be important. The introduction of the childcare allowance has helped to strengthen the role of the father. In my opinion, childcare should be particularly forced in the future. Fathers should be motivated to participate more fully in the care and care of their children. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] For the purposes of compensation: Foods also became more sensitive. Within the eurozone, Austria had to buy the highest inflation rate in food with 4.1 percentage points in the same way as Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen. The diesel price and the gasoline price are also cut in blatant heights. We have not done anything about it, we have not introduced an official price stop. From the oil tax and VAT, the revenue comes, but there is nothing to be done to discharge citizens. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Street:... 20 percent increased, 5 percent are too little! The loss of value is 20 percent!]] The care allowance now no longer covers the necessary expenses in full, it is not planned for valorization. Here again, I would like an automation that would be really necessary. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a society is measured by how it deals with those who do not have it so easily in life.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14790	All three motions for resolutions have been duly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore part of the vote. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e14964	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Government in accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues, on the failure of the The Court of Justice of the European Communities, in accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, shall have the confidence of the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology under Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry in accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lutz Weinzinger, colleagues on the deportation of Mother and daughter Zogaj. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, on an immediate tax release of lower and medium incomes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Finance under Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the motion for a reluctance to agree. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner and colleagues on strengthening fatherly union by introducing a 'voluntary fatherly month'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on the cost compensation for exorbitantly increased food and fuel prices. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner and colleagues on the rapid increase in care allowances by at least five percent. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[13:28:13]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 779/A(E) by Mr Fritz Grillitsch, Mr Mag. Kurt Gaßner, Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, Dipl.-Ing. Karlheinz Klement, MAS, Sigisbert Dolinschek, colleagues on the conservation of GMO-free agriculture in Austria, on the Amendment 236/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the labelling requirement for food from animals fed with genetically modified feed, on: Petitions (24/PET) “Austria free of genetic engineering”, presented by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, on the Amendment 135/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karlheinz Klement, MAS, colleagues on the prohibition of "green genetic engineering" for the protection of consumers, the environment and agriculture, on the Amendment 237/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on mandatory environmental standards in plant fuel production, on the Amendment 249/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues in the field of risk and safety research in the field of agro-geneic technology, on the Amendment No 341/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the guarantee declaration for a non-genotechnic Austria, on the Amendment 701/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the conservation of biodiversity and non-genotechnic agriculture and on the Amendment 754/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karlheinz Klement, MAS, colleagues on measures to save domestic pet breeds and proven domestic seeds (629 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15278	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak was Mr Ing. Schools. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15306	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I would like to thank you for staying on this exciting subject. Today, we have a joint request for all parties to fix the Austrian line on the issue of non-genotechnic organisms, and it is nice that sometimes it is still possible to find a consensus – especially in matters relating to the interaction of Austrian politics with the Austrian economy, with Austrian science on the ground of a defined common European legal matter in relation to worldwide efforts other than here in Europe. The tension is that we define a line with this joint proposal, which shows that an own Austrian path is possible and that we are actually going this Austrian road. We have a good cooperation in Austrian agriculture – as well as in Austrian customers, our allies on this topic. On the one hand, we have created the legal conditions that in Austria we ourselves have available genetically modified seed for cultivation, that we are growing it, and that we will then put it on the market as it is, that the products are marked, that our trade chains have committed themselves to giving up the sale of genetically modified foods and that we can thus jointly develop Austrian food supplies at a level that is not available elsewhere in Europe. It is very important that we keep course and line in this area, because it is about how people who buy food as customers experience reliability. It is also important for agriculture, because this path of non-genotechnic agriculture – freedom of genetic engineering in cultivation, additional provision of non-genotechnic feed from Austria from the production of ethanol, from the production of biofuels, from the production of protein plants – is a way that makes sense only if it really goes long-lasting. This is a way of creating the framework directives with all the consequence. That means we need permanent seed. That means we need permanent companies making this available. That is to say, we must also call for the provision of seed to be promoted at the seed plants, because otherwise we cannot go this way in the long run, because the large companies otherwise leave. This requires that we also give farmers the opportunity to live in a non-genotechnic country in the long term, because co-existence will not be possible. Our high share of organic farming on the one hand and clean conventional agriculture on the other gives us the opportunity to go this way – but only when we are consistent. Consequences are something that our Minister Pröll represents in Europe. That is why I would like to thank him very much for the fact that he is constantly presenting this issue and is also so successful in implementing it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15363	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15384	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Federal Minister! It is almost an irony of fate, here the day after, when the ÖVP once again – for a time again! – a coalition has left to discuss a joint request, namely a joint request from all five parties to this House, which is to ensure the conservation of GMO-free cultivation in Austrian agriculture – “to secure” is exaggerated, but at least to ask the Minister to take this wish of all the parties here in the House seriously. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] This joint request shows that commonness and closeness are, of course, feasible if you just want to. Considered in retrospect: Regarding the Agriculture Committee in particular, I cannot defend the impression that the ÖVP never wanted to make a reasonable policy with us. The Austrians are against finding GMO-changed seeds in food in a very large majority. However, what I do not understand in this context is Mr Molterer's statement by Mr Vice-Chancellor and ex-Agricultural Minister, who meant that genetic engineering could be applied in the case of energy plants. – My previous speaker said that it was not possible, and I gave him full meaning. It can't be that one works on a certain area “a bit” genetically-manipulated – and then it doesn't. I would therefore think that this should be said to Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance. Or is it important for Mr Vice-Chancellor to give the EU Commission a right? I do not understand at all why the EU Commission has reversed the ban on imports into Austria, namely the ban on imports of genetically engineered goods, which would then be used for feed and food. Mr Pröll, if it is said that the cultivation in Austria is still being prevented, it seems almost dangerous to me. I already know that you do not have much time to work in Europe until there is a new government, but, Minister, I ask you to really use this time and to respond to this wish of the Austrians. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I'm with you!]] I think we are completely right with our new European policy, because it is not possible to steal Europe alongside people. We must create Europe with people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15439	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber with 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15460	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Schultes, it is really a bit of a curious fact that, just one day when new elections are being debated, there is a very important common request on the agenda, in itself quite a good place, just as TOP 2 of today's agenda. I mean, it really is a good signal of good parliamentary work when we come to results that are unique across Europe – after long discussions that we have had for years. The results are unique because the Austrian Parliament today decides to make the right of self-determination of the non-genocidal regions a binding task for the Austrian Federal Government – which will be in office and dignity only more briefly – but also for the next period this decision – it is a decision of the Austrian National Council – constitutes a change for the future. This right of self-determination of the regions is the European political challenge – and this is also the criticism of the Greens against the European Commission, because it cannot be done in Europe as a genetic engineering policy as it is at present, against 80 percent of consumers, against farmers, against the food industry in the widest sense, which has often voluntarily declared itself free of genetic engineering – and to fight in the interest of agro-groups, of international multis, of pharmaceutical giants that also spread in the seed business. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the worst kind of lobbyism, and on the contrary we are Greens, we have always acted, and this is a command of the hour. Mr Pröll, this proposal today is an opportunity, the short time you still have as Minister for Agriculture and the Environment... – you will come back, you say. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I'll be back!]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, I'm curious about it. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I'm trying!]] – In any case: Take care of your responsibility in the next two, three months until your choice is absolutely correct! I call on you to take a position on how you, Mr Pröll, wish to carry this request, as announced, at European level on the Councils. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I always did!]] You know how I know that in December 2008 under the French Presidency, a completely new regime on authorisation and risk management in the field of genetic engineering is under discussion at European level. In view of the election campaign, which is now beginning, it would be important to clarify the following: What's going on up there? What will the ministry do? What steps are being taken to ensure that Austria at European level – no matter what the existing government may be – can go well into the negotiations to help break through this right of self-determination of the non-genotechnic regions? In recent days, German Environment Minister Gabriel has also meant, non-genotechnic states, yes, that would be an option. There were critical voices from the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen! There were some who were critical, but this is the challenge if there are no uniform European rules in terms of liability and co-existence, to try to use political freedom and not only to give the national states but also to the regions these opportunities. That is why my question to you very specifically, Mr President. Federal Minister Pröll: What initiatives will you take in the short time that you are still staying in order to promote networking within this alliance of the GMO-free regions – Upper Austria, together with Tuscany –? 45 European political regions are already united here. And how will be You're still using this short time now to help break through this project, and you'll make it clear that our line can only be called: Safety and risk research yes, but then not in the interests of industry, but really independent in Europe? That's the hour's commandment. And one, Mr Schultes, with a lot of common ground here also in the issue of seed breeding, I fully agree with you, because in one point you, Mr Federal Minister, have not yet revised your position in the field of agrofuels. And you know as well as I do that all studies of international quality, the last not yet published by the World Bank... [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: Especially the secret studies that no one knows yet!]] – Wait for it, they will be published already! When the USA processes 25 percent of maize into bioethanol, colleague Schultes, and 17 percent from Soya to Biodiesel, the impact on the food markets has. You, Federal Minister Pröll, have publicly said that you are going to take action against speculation in food. To this day I miss your clear, concrete steps, how you want to achieve what you want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15546	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15567	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the empty ranks will have to do with the fact that all of us now feed without genetic engineering. I see a particularly empty place, that is that of Mr Grillitsch. This clearly shows that Mr Grillitsch as a farmer's representative has no interest in this important subject, and that is already significant for the Farmers' Federation. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But he's hungry too!]] Obviously, there are difficulties where to turn – to the side of the agricultural groups or to the side of the small farmers who want to work without genetic engineering. We'll see if he's coming, Mr Grillitsch. But it is not the first time that he shines by absence, namely by spiritual absence. Even in committees, he is not always entirely involved, we have already had to experience this; we will talk about it later. It is very important that we take a first step today, that we have a five-party proposal that is against genetic engineering. And the question will be, Mr Minister, what the next steps will be. We know that it was a right decision to make this five-party request, but the consequences will be crucial. I'm just going on very few points. Mr Gaßner has already said that the resistance of the entire European population to genetic engineering is known. We all know. We also know that many, many problems arise due to forced poisoning by bt toxin, by glycosate and so on. We know that genetic engineering brings lower harvest yields: up to 40 percent less harvest than conventional agriculture. We know there can be no consistency. We know that Terminator Gene is causing our seed samples to be contaminated and farmers to come in full dependence. We also know – and this is a huge problem – that genetic engineering is already able to use germs in seed products so that the food can become a pathogen. – So many, many things that can have problematic growth. That is why we are calling for further steps. There must necessarily be a compelling liability for genetic engineering companies. We must ensure that corporations are also responsible for the products they suspend, so they can be held liable. It can't be that profits remain with corporations, but the damage to simple citizens. Next – Mr Minister – thank God –: We absolutely need basic research to prove that genetic engineering is a problem. We cannot leave this research to EFSA or to the companies. Unfortunately God, we know that too, EFSA is no longer independent anymore, the EFSA has long been bought. 80 percent of the scientists there are employees at Monsanto, BASF or Beyer. And this, Minister, must also be a task for the AGES. We must be able to do long-term research in Austria to prove that genetic engineering is a threat and can also compete in a fair competition with the companies. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the question of two lost years for Austrian agriculture. Unfortunately, it is God's two lost years, Mr. Minister. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We've done the work to list your current account. She's really disillusioning, Minister Pröll. In total, seven committees have been set up. In seven committees was quashed without results – nothing came out! A total of three legislative proposals came out. – And this is the big peasant party ÖVP! [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: It is important that agriculture works!]] A embarrassment for the ÖVP, and from what you might have done years ago, you are far away. Three legislative proposals, and only because they have given you the EU. So you sit there and wait and see what's happening. They are waiting for what the EU is proposing. That's the only thing you do. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] This means that there are no longer any initiatives on the part of the EIA towards agricultural policy. They failed. That's fact. To sum up, a single joint motion for a resolution remains, today brought in by the opposition. If it had not been the liberals, even the Greens, who have always acted very strongly in the field of genetic engineering, would not even have this joint motion for a resolution. So, in total, a embarrassment that we've experienced: Two lost years for agriculture! Mr Minister, if you really want to deal with it again – it is already a dangerous threat when you say that you are coming back as a minister; that reminds me of Schwarzenegger if you say something like that – then you have been reminded briefly that 50 000 Austrian farms have had to be locked up since EU accession. 50,000! [[Abg. Steindl: How many were it before?]] And you want to sell us the EU as a great success story for agriculture! I also recall that in the same period, within ten years, we lost 92 000 workers in the field of agriculture alone. This is also the responsibility of the ÖVP. Next is the income situation in agriculture: today an hourly wage of 2 €. Get for 2 € You're not going to work today. Farmers have to do that, and you demand it. That's also one point where you could do something. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In addition, we experience the fact that the EU funding that should actually benefit farmers goes to the agricultural groups in a number of ways and also to the large industry – I am thinking only of strength, smoke and so on. Next point, Minister: the red tape. There too, you have completely failed. It is an absolute control force of the AMA. Farmers have to make multiple applications, do huge recording work, list requirements, and they are constantly controlled. That is also one point where you have completely failed. You have remained entirely guilty of solving questions of multifunctional agriculture and how farmers will be able to make their major task in the field of culture and landscape conservation in the future. Mr Minister, do you really want to go back to this office? Take the time, think a little bit, come in! But this policy of the ÖVP has failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15656	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15678	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The majority of Austrians oppose the cultivation, import and sale of genetically modified organisms, food and feed. The AMA seal is known for 95 percent of Austrians. However, it does not include any criteria that prohibit the use of genetically modified animal feed. According to a Greenpeace survey, over 90 000 of nearly 600 000 imported tonnes of genetically modified soya are fed annually on AMA rinders and AMA pigs. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: The AMA doesn't belong to any beef and no pig!]] Then why does this say Greenpeace, Mr. Colleague? There's a statement against the statement. The animal products are at least covered with the AMA seal. At the same time, however, 60 percent of Austrians say that they do not believe that this is the case. And the majority of respondents interpret the seal of quality as a label for organic products. That would be good, too, Minister of Food. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Minister of Life!]] Minister of Life, please. In order to guarantee this, Mr Federal Minister, and to be able to verify the chain of production of products awarded the AMA seal, also for the freedom of genetic engineering, it will of course be necessary to include and prescribe the freedom of genetic engineering in the feeding as a criterion for the AMA seal. If corn and rape can now be imported into the EU as food and feed, so to speak, and produced there, then of course, this comes also to Austria and to the Austrian commodity table, namely in the form of feed and food. This is also partly done in detergents, I think, once I have said. Of course, it is also found in detergents, because the washing substance is also enforced with genetically modified organisms. That too is the least known, but it is quite simply the case, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that at least in Austria, we have developed common foundations in the form of a five-party application, namely that the conservation of non-genotechnic Austrian agriculture and food production is guaranteed. These common cornerstones have been successfully implemented. Federal Minister! In your negotiations also in the EU, of course, this represents a certain strengthening of your back, and that is also important, as I believe. We should constantly work on maintaining our quality in Austria. In this context, I wish you every good thing about these negotiations, Mr Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15744	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15765	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On this five-party resolution request concerning the question of non-genotechnic cultivation and genetic engineering in general: It is indeed the case, as the previous speaker said, that the question of back reinforcement is, of course, correct and important. I will also, as Mr Pirklhuber has demanded, strengthen this request and also, with the request itself in the European Union, in Council formations, where the question of genetic engineering is being discussed, agriculture and the environment, I will also make it clear what Austrian position is, which is the position of the House here, in order to underline once again what we have done in a national consensus, namely an absolutely critical distance to genetic engineering, to green genetic engineering in general. We want to be part of it, when it comes to negotiations, to interfere and to show with alternative concepts, that there are also opportunities, apart from genetic engineering, to make use of conventional and organic agriculture that is profitable in the business sector. On the comments by Mr Klement: I don't know what balances he took, they were very poor. He obviously did not really deal with the subject despite all the possibilities in the committees and also in discussions. As far as genetic engineering is concerned, we have always made it clear from the Austrian Presidency, even before, in the co-existence conference, where the question of how this goes side by side, as long as these central questions are not resolved: How does this go side by side?, How do liability schemes at European level?, we will not agree to the cultivation of genetically modified seed in Austria. And this decision will not change either. Ladies and gentlemen! If two new constructions have now been approved by the European Union – in this case you have to separate it – and we have to allow them, then we are about feed and food. But there the farmers and consumers have the freedom of choice. With the label, everyone – every farmer and every farmer, every consumer and every consumer – can choose to handle the shelf or feed: I buy genetically modified food, which is thank God in the density or not at all, because there is an unpronounced consensus with the trade chains – or not. This is a fair offer, I think, and in this respect we must also keep a clear line. This five-party proposal will continue to help us, even with regard to the question of non-genotechnic regions in Europe. Sigmar Gabriel referred to this at the informal council. I really have sympathy for this issue of getting more involved in Europe in order to enable regions or states to produce free from genetic engineering by definition. There we are at the very beginning of the road. But this five-party resolution request will also help us accordingly. One last point away from genetic engineering, namely Mr Klement, because he said: three legislative proposals and seven committees. So: I can't influence what you're discussing there. That's what you said, "quatched" or "quatchbude" or whatever you accused me of. What the Members of this House are discussing is not my beer. First point. Second point: Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, in view of your almost genetic rejection of the European Union, which makes you blind to the real debate that you do not see that agricultural policy has long been made in Europe. There is also my main concern, namely to use me for Austria's interests in the Council of Agriculture Ministers, and to achieve wise common solutions that work directly for farmers in Brussels. This is a main focus of my work. And you've left this balance because you don't want to see it. Austria has solved the genetic engineering issue as successfully as no other country and has drawn the furthest if we want to stay in the agricultural field. We have negotiated as much money as no other country in the European Union, we have been extremely successful. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Distribution justice is not right, Mr. Cot!]] If you are already taking stock, then you will draw the entire balance sheet, and not only fragments from a admittedly as far as the Committees are concerned, from your point of view, obviously too little fruitful debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15802	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Auer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15826	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! So after the colleague – what is his name? – from FPÖ, Klement, apologies, Klement, whether or not a weak balance sheet of the Federal Minister for Agriculture Policy, I think, as it seems, it would have to be urgently given to him by Buerlecithin, for he has apparently forgotten that, when compared with the milk price in Europe, Austria’s farmers will have to cut off positively. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: That's an old dirt from Kreisky! He's not pulling anymore! Buerlecithin!]] If you compare the ÖPUL, the environmental programme in Europe, then you can say quite self-confidently that Austria is cutting off. If the land premiums per hectare in Germany were to be compared to those in Austria, I think Bavarian farmers would want the same payments as they are granted to Austrian farmers. If we look at the investment promotion programme for agriculture in Europe, I think that many professional colleagues in Europe would wish they were in Austria or there would be Austrian conditions. If I take from a German newspaper here that the German Chancellor gives the farmers a rejection of tax relief, I think that these farmers would also want the agricultural diesel refund which exists in Austria. Mr. Klement, you criticise bureaucracy. I'll give you that in many parts. But this also contributes to the fact that the lowest recovery rate is given to the Austrian farmers because the INVEKOS programme is more than perfect because the advice of the agricultural chambers works. Let that be said. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, today's agreement, this five-party proposal, should and must strengthen the Federal Minister's back. It is very positive and in itself gratifying that in these difficult coalition days, even in these difficult parliamentary days, it is possible to achieve something in material discussions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also interesting if you look at the “AIZ” last week, 4. July, see, because it is worth reading that a Commissioner for Agriculture thinks that we cannot and must not shut down new technologies and, in some cases, even talk about CFP technology. Then it will be problematic. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes, of course!]] It is therefore important, as you yourself say, Mr Pirklhuber, that our Federal Minister is strengthened by a five-party agreement, by unanimous decision-making. It is necessary, despite all skepticism, despite all critical remarks. It is interesting how different green genetic engineering and red genetic engineering are discussed. That would also be to ask why. I am expressly familiar with genetic engineering, seed and so on in Austria, no question at all. But if we want Austrian farmers to produce under these difficult conditions even in the future, a slightly better price must also be paid to farmers, because that would be justified. Only two keywords. – Ladies and gentlemen, in 1970 the farmer had to put on a kilo of wheat for a litre of diesel, today seven kilos.1970 we needed a litre of milk for a litre of diesel, today we need 3.5 litres of milk for the same product. It will be necessary not only to demand the highest possible standards in terms of animal protection, transport conditions and many questions and to apply the lowest standard for the product. The question of the trade chains will also be a crucial question. It was remarkable when everyone said: Let us take a look at agricultural subsidies, because the farmers are the grant recipients number one in Austria! – That’s what it often sounded like! See: It was a huge demand on this database, it even collapsed. And who's at the top? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Red Bull!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schalle, who has once led a large group of his own: industry, trade, some processing companies, even companies that you are not so far away from. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sounds.]] This is why the interest in agricultural support that farmers receive has cooled down a little.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15930	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e15951	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am of course also pleased that this five-party proposal reflects a very broad view of the Austrian population, and I am pleased that it has succeeded in deciding on it. However, there are still votes at international level, which believe that the global food crisis would help with genetic engineering in the agricultural sector. I don't see it like that, yes, I think most of us don't see it that way. There are several reasons for the current food crisis. I would like to mention three of them: On the one hand, this is a very uneven distribution of food, on the other hand a wrong policy, and on the third it is speculation with raw materials. Let me briefly do something for these three reasons. For the uneven distribution: This is, of course, because developing countries, for example, have much worse cultivation methods, much worse seed available. In addition, experts assume that a third to a quarter of foods are rotting and rotting because they cannot be placed on the markets because they cannot be brought from where they are produced to those who are hungry. That is to say, the uneven distribution must be countered by an intelligent development policy, a policy that promotes rural development in order to develop infrastructure in order to achieve real progress in the field of sustainable agricultural production. Secondly, on the question of wrong policy: The whole area of the agro-sprite mixture has already been mentioned. The European Parliament has recently also adopted a decision to revise this 10 % combination target at European level, which I strongly support. The discussion about this is, I think, in progress. There is also a wrong policy at other levels. For example, the International Monetary Fund has established very long conditions for loans and said: You, land – whatever – see that you produce products for the export market, for the world market!, and thus destroyed the food sovereignty of many countries. Wrong policy can be changed! Export subsidies from the rich countries, with which markets in the Third World, for example, have a lot to fight, can be abolished! You can do a lot of things, too. Thirdly, to the speculations: Since 2005, short-term speculation with raw materials has increased by threefold. This leads to an incredible consumption of basic foods. And there is something you can do, for example, introduce an international or, at least, a European speculation tax. We see that there are a lot of measures. Genetic engineering does not play a role in any of these measures. However, it will be necessary to also research accordingly. I believe that, for example, the WTO will not only be impressed by our five-party education and by our political will to be against genetic engineering in the food sector, but we will also need the scientifically sound arguments. This requires critical genetic research. This requires budgeting in this area. I hope that this will increase in the next legislative period. In conclusion: It would have been nice if we had achieved these unitys in such five-party applications on important issues, on topics that most Austrians agree on. Climate protection, for example, would have been such a point. Maybe it'll get better later. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16013	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16034	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is significant that the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Grillitsch, is once again not present, as was the case in the last debate. It also shows how important agriculture is for the Committee chairman. Mr Klement was right when he criticized what was going on or what was not going on. In the last two years of the Great Coalition, there have not been particularly many lucid moments, so light moments. But one of them is undoubtedly this five-party request. We can certainly be proud that we have reached an agreement here, where we are committed to the maintenance of non-genotechnic agriculture and food production. That's nice. That is certainly too little. If we want to defend ourselves successfully against the Gen lobby and also have to defend – I mentioned this in the Committee on Agriculture – then we need to intensify research. Then we need basic research, but not research that is guided by any corporations. We liberals have always stood up for the freedom of teaching, for the freedom of science. However, we must also make the financial resources available to do so so so so that we can defend ourselves accordingly at the European level. I would very much like to listen to Mr Pröll's Minister of Agriculture when he says again and again: I represent the Austrian interests! and: Agriculture policy is being made in Europe! - No, we all know that. But the main problem, Mr Federal Minister, is that we do not prevail in the European Union, and above all you do not prevail. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] Then we'll always be told some air bubbles here. Then the colleague Auer comes from my neighboring community and says: If you look at this disclosure of the promotions, the industry is there, there are foundations there!, everything possible. But please: Who is responsible for this? Who's responsible? Who brought us into this kind of European Union? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Who is fighting for a just, social Europe? You don't!]] Who is still attached to the EU reform treaty of Lisbon, ladies and gentlemen? When I look at that, I see: At the 13th place is the Presidential Conference of the Chamber of Agriculture and receives 865 598 €, the food group receives 1 309 096,03 €, the Nidera Handelscomagnie 2 139 376,61 €. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: These are export subsidies!]] You know, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to us that agricultural policy is complicated. But the European Union has contributed a lot to making it so complicated. And we're not gonna find out anymore. That's a typical thing once again. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Where is your request to abolish export subsidies?]] Finally, I would like to say to you, Minister of State: This Committee on Agriculture has once again come to know the concept of democracy of the ÖVP. We have asked you x-time – and you have also promised – to announce the funding for the political professional representations. We have not received any information on your part until now. I think this is really embarrassing that you promise to a Member of the House, and until now we have not received an answer. Mr Grillitsch – I do not know where he is now – has once again brought a great quote: With surveys it is like with the perfume – one should only smell at it, but one should not drink of it. And so are many coalition partners of the ÖVP. You should really just smell at it, but you shouldn't cool, because coming out doesn't do anything at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16114	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16135	Madam President. High house! Obviously, this item on the agenda is used to discuss the overall agricultural policy, whether it is good or bad. I think we just need to look at the facts. There is much less structural change in Austria than in the rest of Europe. Agricultural prices are at the forefront of Europe. The direct payments that can be paid to farmers are at the forefront of Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The operating premiums...!]] There is, of course, a constant struggle. And a minister, Pröll, a martener, a bowl – and as they all are called – have fought perfectly in Brussels to get a maximum for our farmers. There is always a struggle in the House for the agricultural budget, where the Greens and others in this Chamber often want to make nothing available to the farmers. But we're fighting for it. There are, of course, improvements there and there that we must strive to see whether it is in Europe or here. To sum up, we can see that we are making a very, very good agricultural policy. As far as GMO-free cultivation is concerned, I am pleased that we can now decide on this five-party application. It is also a matter of appreciating the regions accordingly for them to be able to decide for themselves. I am also concerned that security of supply is also guaranteed with seeds. In the future, it cannot be that only a very few international corporations have the monopoly, but we must also be able to produce and multiply seeds in the country itself. It has already been done a lot. Minister Pröll has put in place national measures, set up national initiatives, and he has had some studies prepared. He succeeded in bringing a GMO-coexistence conference to Vienna in 2006. In summary, I can see that the work so far has shown that the farmers and the Austrians at the ÖVP are in good hands at Minister Pröll. And you should continue that way in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16198	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16219	Madam President. Minister of Life! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We've already heard: According to opinion polls, 80 percent of the Austrian population are against genetically engineered ingredients in food. In any case, citizens cannot be convinced of an affordable price alone. Genetically modified plants have so far not been able to make a positive contribution to the eradication of the hunger situation. Instead, authors express their support for modern and sustainable agriculture. A modern and sustainable agriculture promises Duration of larger crops, can withstand climate change, does not destroy natural resources and, through more stable prices, allows the farmers to survive worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen! The genetic engineering forces chemical use in the fields, brings no higher yields and provides a boost for industrial and monocultural agriculture. However, the freedom of choice of consumers can only be ensured by means of a clear label. I am therefore very glad that there is agreement on this with all five parties. The comprehensive catalogue of measures available today, which we want to adopt with the motion for a resolution, is a first important step. Mr Minister, you have done a lot of things, but you have continued to be required. In any case, we Social Democrats will continue to work for a GMO-free agriculture in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16257	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16280	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been found that 95 percent of the population categorically reject the use of GMOs. There are also nine out of ten farmers against it. On the other hand, 26 GMOs are already approved in the EU and further applications for authorisation are under way. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But not for cultivation!]] Nevertheless, the regions in Europe are becoming more vulnerable to genetic engineering. I am very glad that it is in the interests of people and that this question is also being discussed here in Parliament and that there is a joint motion for a resolution which is significantly influenced by the EIA. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, what can we do about it? – I am allowed to report here on a very positive example from Upper Austria. Upper Austria has been a pioneer in protecting GMOs for years, for example with the establishment of the Allianz Genetic Engineering-Free Regions, which already has 41 members. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: 45!]] In addition, the Genetics Prohibition Act was adopted in 2003, which unfortunately was finally tilted by the ECJ in 2007. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But there will be a new one!]] However, the Upper Austrian Land Councillor Dr Stockinger did not beat himself and approached the matter from a completely different point of view. Upper Austria has taken the initiative, and as a safety net, the Genetics Prevention Act has been adopted, which has now been in force since 2006. If we cannot ban cultivation in general, there are serious obstacles that hinder any sowing of GMOs because it simply has to be reported to the authority. The Authority may then prohibit cultivation in particularly sensitive zones and in the event of a specific risk of cross-over. If, despite strict distance provisions, an environmental impairment occurs, the user is liable for this. I think these obstacles have created a very effective protection for GMO cultivation. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! We, the Austrian agricultural policy with our Federal Minister Pröll, are at the forefront of a traditional, ecological, sustainable agriculture in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Attention! Don't read! He's not Erwin, he's Joseph!]] I believe that as long as one is not sure what genetically modified plants can produce, they must be handled with utmost caution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16355	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16376	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This commitment to the freedom of genetic engineering in agriculture in food production is gratifying. The main issue is that what Austrian farmers create in their fields is protected, what happens there, and thus also consumer protection. A overwhelming majority of Austrians are very skeptical about the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. There are many unknown dangers. The Austrians want to have the right to choose with regard to genetically modified foods. It is therefore necessary to provide for a labelling requirement for food from animals fed with genetically modified feed. The potential for increased resistance to antibiotics or the increase in allergies are dangers to be taken into account. Genetically engineered plants, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be controlled. It is about protecting the entire Austrian or domestic ecosystem. It is a matter of not getting rid of the spirits that were called. The pollen flight spreads and cannot be recovered. As a result, gene-manipulated plants are in circulation in nature. I don't think the consequences can be repaired anymore. Farmers who do not want genetic engineering cannot defend themselves. Furthermore, it is not clear how the contact of genetically modified plants affects the domestic animal world. With regard to the conservation of biodiversity, I come to speak on a subject that has accompanied me for a long time, namely bees. Mr Minister, I would like to mention the mysterious death of bee in the United States. The causes have not been clarified until now. It is a smaller number of honeybees as a whole to be observed, and we know how important bees are for the survival of the local flora. They're invaluable. I don't know if it's spent love, but I'd ask you to think about whether it makes sense that the subject of beekeeping in the agricultural schools is only more than free and no longer a compulsory subject. The beekeeping would be an essential point to counter this bee dying in order to allow bee populations to bee populations again. Finally, it should be noted that the Austrians want precise rules on the labelling of genetically modified foods. It is therefore important that these demands are brought into the EU and, hopefully, implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16418	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16440	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has always acted critically in the GMO question and has thus sensitised awareness of this issue. I am very grateful that a further step has been taken in the GMO question today. We have always pointed out the risk and, I believe, raise awareness of people and agriculture on this issue. Austria has always voted against GMO new registrations at EU level and has therefore clearly taken a position. We have also always called for clear rules of play. The topic of genetic engineering is, of course, a subject without frontiers, and I believe that we must take national steps here, one after the other. I believe that this is simply a power and economic factor, particularly in the field of seeds, and there are various influences and interests. The question remains: What can Austria do nationally to protect itself from dangers, especially in the direction of environmental protection, in the direction of food safety, but also, of course, in order to address health risks? – We must remain on the level of reality on this issue; it benefits, I believe, no hysteria. We just need good arguments. And the example of Upper Austria has shown that there are quite limits. We need transparency in the labelling - that is, I believe, one of the most important things that we can at all demand - in order to: To protect citizens and consumers. We must avoid abuse and manipulation. The third thing, I think, is safety – safe seed, safe food and feed – and in the near future we can also identify regions. There are already 40 regions which give genetic engineering a rejection. Austria has a clear and smart position. We have a consistent path and, I believe, we are very critical. This five-party proposal, I believe, is a signal towards Brussels, towards the European Commission, that the interests of the countries must be taken seriously. With today's five-party request, we also strengthen our Federal Minister's backs, and I trust him that he will also bring his position to Brussels on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16485	The next speaker is Mr Schopf, with a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16506	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is also a very important and central issue for me, especially because I come from a rural area, from the Mühlviertel. We all know that this issue is actually being discussed throughout Europe, that a large part of the population of Europe is taking a negative attitude – and I believe that in Austria, the rate of rejection is even greater – when it comes to the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. And above all, we know that the rejection, I believe, is one hundred percent when it comes to genetic engineering being used even in the field of food production. Ladies and gentlemen, this problem is not only a central issue for farms or farmers, but I believe that it is very important for the whole population, especially consumers, because this problem is of the utmost importance in the field of food production and, ultimately, we all want to see food produced free of genetic engineering. I also think that GMO-free agriculture and food production have great advantages for Austrian agriculture, that they are particularly important for rural areas, for many – even smaller – farms, and that farmers – I believe at least – will have a future only if they are non-genotechnically active when products are produced without genetic engineering. Mr Minister, I think you have been asked to step up your work in this area, because it is important that more information is made available to consumers about this issue is made more aware of the fact that greater awareness is being created. It is also important to me to say that if you go in stores – not only in Austria, but especially in our neighbouring countries – and look for food with appropriate labelling, you have some difficulty finding it. . I believe it is important that labelling is greatly improved, that there are clearer obligations in this respect, that labelling is extended, that simple consumer statements are easily understandable for the – under quotation marks. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to take appropriate initiatives here. I believe that it is necessary to create better conditions together to ensure that there is a sufficient supply of non-genotechnic feed, because in the end our agriculture needs such feed. Mr. Minister, you're required!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16552	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. 2 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16573	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! “It’s enough,” we’ve heard many times today. In any case, it is sufficient to adopt a joint five-party proposal on the genetic engineering freedom of Austrian agriculture and food production in this House. The Austrians are largely opposed to green genetic engineering, and Austria has, of course, done a great deal to ensure that genetic engineering is free. With regard to the cultivation of genetically modified products, certain legislative measures – the seed regulation, the prohibitions on cultivation and import, the GMOs of the federal states – have ensured that in Austria the freedom of genetic engineering in cultivation and in food production is guaranteed. At European level, it looks a little different, there are constantly new applications for approval. And I think we're on the way with the Austrian line on the genetic engineering issue. We've got ally states. There are, of course, also opponents, but the Austrian way is clearly the right one. It should also be pointed out at this point that the 45 regions of Europe have committed themselves to the free of genetic engineering, and in this context we must also thank Federal Minister Pröll, who has been vehemently committed to the freedom of genetic engineering in Austria and who now knows many Europeans at his side. Of course, we also know that consumers increasingly rely on Austrian quality stamps and quality stamps, which guarantee freedom of genetic engineering. This is a clear signal that this very important path for Austria must continue and that, of course, the impact on Europe – and this five-party proposal will also be felt and seen by the Federal Minister in his negotiations in future. Of course, the desire for more research into safety and risk in genetic engineering also proves that interest in the population is accordingly high. With this five-party proposal, we have a strengthened position in Austria, which will also affect the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16606	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16628	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians are very skilled people, they are very health conscious people, and therefore they also reject genetically modified food. [[Abg. Chef: Bravo!]] We Socialists take people's concerns seriously and support them. There is, in principle, great agreement across all party borders as to the objective of keeping Austria free of genetic engineering, and this has also been reflected in the last government programme – one of the few points that, without there being any Zank and Hader in this regard, have actually been held. But we still have to be very on the hat, ladies and gentlemen, because the pressure of the GMO lobbyists is very great. There are very great desires, as we know, which have already been addressed today. Application for authorisation shall be made on a regular basis. There are now 26 GMOs already authorised in feed and food. That is to say, there is massive pressure on the European Commission, and we must not underestimate that. ==References== In May of this year, there was not a very big day for us, because the Commission has removed the ban on imports of genetically modified maize – unfortunately, as I believe. At the same time, this means that the freedom of genetic engineering is slowly, disconcerted. Mr Federal Minister, I therefore believe that you are required. I would simply like to say that you have to ‘hop on the table’ here a little more than you have done in the past, because the activities you have set up so far have unfortunately not been enough. It is therefore important that all parties today decide on this motion for a resolution and that the Austrian position be adopted. Freedom of genetic engineering in food is important to people and is not suitable for party-political smack caps, ladies and gentlemen. Last sentence: In the future, Mr Federal Minister, you will have to make more efforts than before to represent the interests of the Austrians in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16664	Next, Mr Kainz. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16686	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Wimmer, I mean, when it comes to representing Austrian interests in Brussels in the sense of agriculture, then certainly this is not the case with up-to-the-table sharks, then certainly it is not the case with any letters written by newspaper publishers, but only with a special negotiating skill, with a lot of expertise and expertise – and for this Minister Pröll is undoubtedly an excellent guarantee, in the sense of Austrian agriculture and, above all, also in the sense of Austrian consumers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Austrian line in genetic policy is continuing to be very consistent with today's proposal. Austria and the Austrian agriculture are exemplary for Europe. And there are several conditions for continuing this path. For example, the non-genotechnic seed must be made available permanently, so that it can also be produced free of genetic engineering and can ultimately ensure food safety. The Austrian consumers are undoubtedly also very proud of our food, and I think they are also very proud of the high quality in agriculture as a whole. I believe that with this five-party proposal, we will also provide the Minister of State with the prerequisite that we can continue to represent our national position on a sustainable basis at European level. I believe that this is also a good way to show that Austria is a strong partner in this Europe, and it is also an excellent example that makes it clear that Federal Minister Pröll is a strong partner in the reign of the European Minister for Agriculture. And he is undoubtedly a guarantee and a strong partner for our farmers, but above all also for our consumers. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, you have a great deal of success in your negotiations!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16731	Next, Mr Faul. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16752	Madam President. Federal Minister! Once I have a “Raiffeisenzeitung” in my hand, it does not mean that I still have a substandard and have a plump clone at home, but I have seen, one sometimes has to read the “Raiffeisenzeitung”. If I come to the more serious part now – stop yelling! – then I remember how we – Mr Prince, Mrs Hellerer – last time, Minister of State, spoke of what I thought was an unethical form of business, namely that we could bet on food. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] We've been talking about the goods and dates, and you've all been very disheartened, like me. By chance, this paper now comes into my hand, “Raiffeisen Ware Austria” – and I mean absolutely uncanny, normally that belongs to you or from the Farmers' Federation censored. I say Fritz, you have to censor, because it can't be that there's an instruction in there, how the farmers should speculate: how they have to hold back on one side of the goods, so that they stay pretty expensive, but on the other hand they have to be careful that they don't speculate too high, because then they can't buy anyone; so how they find the spagate that on the one hand the mills can still mill – which, of course, are also under raiffeisen, anyway clear – and on the other hand, the "Marie" is true for Raiffeisen. [[in the direction of the Abg. Gritish]] If you're always talking about the “Kronen Zeitung” about the ÖVP, I have to tell you something: 100 percent of the other newspapers are ÖVP newspapers! And what's even worse from my point of view: You're under Kuratel of the Raiffeisenkas! And when I look at the election campaign of the “Dear Uncle” – you will also be a profiter – you will: [[towards Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] Christian Konrad says: This is not a problem, we will already finance it, 50, 60 million €! – I did away with my last book at the Raiffeisenkasse from there, because I didn’t want to help you finance it. Mr. Federal Minister, now again on the matter – the other is really a little bit the polemics that should strike back because you always criticize the letter in the “Kronen Zeitung”. But what's bad for me, Fritz, is, for example, the term “Aufmischweisen”. “Mixing up” doesn’t sound that good. And you can read about it in there, Minister of State. It says that you just mix a little bit with the cheap wheat and the not good wheat. But don't worry, Austrians, we're just selling this to the Italians anyway! You then buy That's the noodles. – So much on the topic of “Emmi Swiss”. Read your own paper! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is why I say once again – and I conclude by doing so: Dear friends, I prefer a letter to the “Kronen Zeitung” rather than this dependence on the black press and especially on Raiffeisen. But if there is a change, Mr. Federal Minister – I have heard you go to Lower Austria, and the uncle to the Federal President – then you will be happy again when Raiffeisen “slows”. I wish you every success!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16819	Mr Schultes spoke on an actual amendment. You know the legal provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16843	Mr Faul has made the claim that constituencies are there to produce bad wheat and then bring the customer back to light. - It's different to see, dear friend! On the Swiss side is the highest quality wheat we produce in Austria, which is then sold to Italy and which is used in Italy to set wheat from France in such a way that it can in fact also produce Italian pastries. It's just a happening thing, and we in Austria have the best quality from here to Canada. And stupidly... – A real confirmation is that our wheat is so good that it can be sold as wheat to improve other wheat! – Yes, I think that is enough, and we are proud that we can. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's a speech! That is not an actual correction! A real confirmation!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16878	This was now more an ad switch than an actual correction. - But let's not be like that today. The next item is the speech by Mr Prince-in-Office. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16902	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The joint application of all five parties for GMO freedom in Austrian agriculture is very valuable, and many of the points contained are truly supportive. If everyone in the House today admits to GMO freedom, I would like to point out that a verbal confession alone is too little. Foods of GMO-free Growing has its value, or there is quite a higher production costs. The Austrian farmers are clearly committed to GMO freedom. This applies to food production as well as to animal feed production and energy production. Those who buy Austrian food buy more than just healthy and quality food. I ask all of you to think about what would happen if the peasants, the peasants' families, were to become so worse off their foundations that they would be forced to do their farms. The most important basis for agricultural farming is a fair price for their product. Public payments for agricultural services Interest of the public, society, such as environmental services, are benefits and not subsidies or subsidies. In addition to cost-effective and fair product prices, farmers need to compensate for natural production disadvantages to their European colleagues. Those who, like the Greens, double the conditions and bureaucracy, just as the Reds want to halve the compensatory payments, those who demand renationalization as the Blues and Oranges, and who refuse to live reality, are not a partner for Austrian agriculture. Finally, only the Farmers' Federation and the ÖVP are reliable partners for farmers and rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16941	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e16963	Madam President. High house! The Austrians do not want genetically modified food, and Austrian agriculture corresponds to this 100% requirement. And this five-party proposal strengthens our Minister Pröll's backs so that he can make sure in Brussels that this will remain the same in the future. However, I would also like to say a few words to my colleague, Mr Klement, because, in turn, he has made the issue of 'farmer mortality' here. That is right, Mr Klement, we too are sorry for every farmer who is nailing the barn door. Really, every single one! Only you have to note that in Austria we have one of the smallest-structured agriculture in all of Europe. We are very proud of this, but this is the result of many young farmers and young farmers also pursuing a secondary acquisition. They are skilled men and women who, of course, are in demand on the labour market. And some of them ask themselves: Why should I do this double burden?, and give up the yard. – You must bear this in mind, Mr Klement. Mr Veit Sounde, we have held some interesting discussions on the ‘Milk Prize’ issue. And again and again you come up with the argument that the Austrian agricultural policy, that the Austrian processors are unable to place their milk marks in such a way that they are bought by the consumer at an appropriate price. You know, Mr Sounde, these efforts, which are without question, undermine the trade chains with their own brands. If you go here, Mr. Schalle, just as it happened recently again, and pro forma raises the milk price at the own brands by 6 cents, but in the same breath it retains 4 cents for itself, this is simply insolent. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Eßl.]] I'll tell you one thing: We will also have to talk about trade in the future and find clear words. You can rely on that!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17015	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 629 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is taken unanimously. (E 82.) [[14:42:50]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (553 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Eco electricity Act (2. Eco electricity law-Novelle 2008) (643 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (554 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act re-adopting provisions in the field of combined heat and power (KWK Act) (644 d.b.) 5. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (589, B.C.E._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act (645 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17085	We now come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Lichtenecker is speaking. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17113	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Marek, the Secretary of State, welcomes us on this very, very important point in Austrian energy and environmental policy. Today morning, in the debate, there was great consensus, great agreement on the fact that this government has made a bad policy, with miserable results, in particular a bad and miserable environmental and energy policy, which has also been reflected in the Eco electricity Act. [[Abg. Schopf: There was no agreement on this!]] You already said in April at the Climate Change Summit that the 2006 Novelle did not bring what you expected it to be a bad law and led to an expansion stop in the eco electricity sector. That is why German Chancellor Gusenbauer and Minister Pröll stressed that we need a new eco electricity law. What happened? – A bad bill has been introduced, there have been many comments on it, and since then there has not been much change. What you have done is to make amendments to Permanence. Amendments are good in so far as they carry on the matter from the point of view, but they did not. Formal errors have always been tried, but nothing has changed from the content – even since the last plenary session, where the bill was referred back to the committee. There have also been amendments. But nothing moves in the thing; nothing has moved in the substance. This eco electricity bill, which is under discussion here today, has two terrifying marks: One is that the template is miserable in the matter and in the substance, and the other is that the whole thing is also sloppy. Since the last plenary session, you have not taken the opportunity to make substantial and substantive improvements to Mr Kopf, namely improvements to climate protection and also to the economy. [[Abg. Head: That's so good, I can't do it anymore!]] If I look at the specific points, I have to say: For example, they work on the target definition of pocket-player tricks, with small miserable tricks, where it is quite clear that this is not a doubling of renewable energies, but ultimately a minimal increase of 2% by 2015. – That is ridiculous in the goal! Treatment of particularly badly They are, so to speak, parts of renewable energy sources, such as biomass. The expansion of 15 MW per year is ridiculous. That's absolutely little. You know that the biomass power plant Timelkam has 15 MW in Upper Austria alone. This is an objective for annual expansion, which is very narrow and small. But you're doing the same with the photovoltaic. 17 MW, what is that? It's a minimal one. We already have 7 MW in Austria. And that's the target definition for the next seven, eight years? – So really a “trauer game”, which you deliver de facto here! How does the small hydropower look? – They are always talking about the need to expand hydropower, that this is an essential contribution to energy generation. I'll give you that. But then that would have to be shown in this law. But it doesn't. Then: The micro- and micro-water power needs a feed-in tariff – and not a unique investment promotion. This has also been repeatedly stressed by the representatives of the small hydropower operators. But these were not heard in any way by you. Even during the funding period, you did not take the step we needed so urgently, especially in the field of photovoltaics. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What is that supposed to be?]] That is clear, Mr Mitterlehner: 20 years must be the target of photovoltaics! That would be what exactly this area would bring forward. But Her action is a purely short-sighted and narrow-minded policy, and it does not bring us any further. The much-conjured support by the KLI.EN for the plants under 5 KW will be a drop on the hot stone. Look at the funding provided for this! Apart from that, we do not know whether this will actually happen, especially since yesterday the government is crumbled and crushed. And not to mention the 21 million. 21 million are far too few! You know that. You know very well that this will continue to block the expansion and will not move forward. But when it comes to gifts to large-scale industries, such as Mr Heinzel in Styria, it works. Then, as experts are taken away, €6 million is shaken out of the sleeve. So summa summarum is a sad result that you deliver here – and even more so in times when energy prices are so to speak, every day, every hour. They do not recognise, however, the possibility of stabilizing energy prices in this eco electricity law. Where is the knowledge of taking the appropriate step? Whoever has recognized this very well is the national conference, which sent a letter to Minister Bartenstein at the end of April, but since April has not done much in this respect, what you see in this novel, Mr Minister. I now quote from the letter of the national conference to Minister Bartenstein. “The present draft on the novel of the Eco electricity Act is an extension of the standstill for the entire eco electricity industry. Since the novelle 2006 the plant stock has stagnated. There are no incentives for the construction of new plants, and many existing plants will have to stop the operation.” Mr Federal Minister, you are then addressed quite clearly and precisely – I quote further –: ‘The restrictions in the current draft are not suitable to trigger investment and initiate the new construction of eco-electric plants. Legal and investment security for the implementation of new installations and for the plant stock is not sufficient.” I quote: “The Eco electricity Act must be revised and formulated in order to ensure further forced and necessary expansion of eco-electric power plants – in accordance with the EEG model in Germany.” This is what the federal states are sending you, the state leaders Voves, Burgstaller, Häupl, Sausgruber, Pröll, Pühringer and so on. But you do not act after that, you do not recognize the signs of time, you do not recognize what we urgently need! We needed a removal of the cover. We needed an increase in funding to at least €50 million. And we needed an extension of the period of funding to 20 years – and, of course, fair tariffs. Finally, it is also a question of how the rising prices of the economy, private households and the middle class will go along with the people you see. Let us look, Minister of State, at the climate change objectives and the Kyoto agreement, which you are negotiating centrally, which you signed: We see that you have not contributed a millimeter to achieving these climate change targets! On the contrary: You've made sure we keep getting rid of it! They know that fines are in the space at billions. And if you convert this to the Austrian population, then the, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, are 240 € per capita, from the baby to the hundred years in our country. Federal Minister, this is the uncomfortable truth! And since yesterday, you've been standing in front of a big shredded pile in the Federal Government. We are also facing a large pile of energy policy. This eco electricity law novelle is nothing but a sad example of this government for its inability in energy and environmental policy. There must therefore be a step towards new negotiations. Today we will make a referral request. Benefits You have this opportunity and take the courage to refer it back to the Committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17188	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies. 4 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17209	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is always surprising, with which vehemence the greens especially criticise the eco electricity law – which is supposedly an ancestral subject area with you – but with how little arguments you do it again and again. They criticise the tariff period, require 20 years, but do not provide any justification for it. That it would be more beautiful for operators to have 20 years instead of 13 or 15 years of age, no well, but why don't you just explain it objectively and economically – and not just with a passive demand that certainly comes well with those outside, that's already clear, but our responsibility hopefully goes a little further than just wanting to satisfy interests. Second point: We widen the volume of funding, adding €21 million per year to the €300 million already – and this is even more flexible, so it can be increased if an evaluation results in the need for this. - You want more, too. On the other hand, you criticise the load on the middle class by energy prices. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: The rising energy prices!]] Also our surcharges or the financing of the eco electricity is something that you need to pay exactly for the medium class that you want to protect. So, what now? Should you protect against stress or distribute more money? – This is a contradiction in itself. Your criticism is just ridiculous! Next point: This law not only creates a saving of the biogas and biomass plants, which are already in operation, but which have existential problems due to high raw material prices, and we create an ideal incentive system for new plants, namely the binding of efficiency criteria in the form of CHP technology, and/or also an incentive for biogas to be fed into the gas grid – certainly also an interesting variant. There are so many new, additional aspects contained in this novel to the old law that certainly do not justify the criticism you are making here. There are still a number of such examples as I have done here, but this does not allow the short speaking time. You always repeat placardly and stereotype what you are constantly spreading via the media: The EEG from Germany is supposed to be it! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That even demands your country leaders!]] This is nothing better than ours from the outcome. The Germans are at their power consumption with the eco electricity about where we are. Our law looks a little different. We don't do writing in Berlin. I don't know if it's the job of this house to go to Berlin every time, so to speak, to pick up a law there, write it down and then decide inside here. We claim to develop suitable laws in Austria, in line with the structure of the economy and energy supply. We make our legislative proposals adapted to this. And we'll keep it that way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17257	The next item is the speech by Mr Themessl. Unfortunately, I must interrupt you in your remarks at 3 p.m., in order to hold a short debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17278	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Kopf, you are attacking the Greens because they rightly criticise this proposal, but you do not have to look so far, because you have in your own ranks a celebrity, former Commissioner Franz Fischler, who always criticizes it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: The old law!]] He speaks of lazy compromises when he breaks the Austrian Ecostrom Act; he has already done so often. I can be quite brief because we have also rejected one of the last plenary sessions of this law, with the corresponding justification. In addition, two more speakers come from my group, who will then discuss them in detail. This bill is far too far away from us. You're making a piece of work under this eco electricity law. And even if you now remove the promotion of power-heat-coupling plants from the eco-power law, from our point of view it is only an eye-catching because it is not useful to promote highly profitable plants at all. We criticise the fact that this eco-power law does not take into account certain useful sources of energy at all or not at all, such as geothermal, wind power and similar things. Also in the small hydropower would be much more to do. I tell you, my colleague, if in the next few years, instead of buying emission certificates abroad, you would be thinking about how you could use this money efficiently in Austria and leave the value added in the country, then we would all be much more helped. To take the German energy concept as a model here is also no disadvantage, because it has proved to be very useful and has really impacted accordingly. You don't necessarily have to reinvent the wheel. Why can't you write something in Germany if it's really good. At the EU in Brussels, you are doing this all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17321	I am now interrupting the sitting by 15 a.m. to hold the short debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17349	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:31]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17380	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the Ecostrom Act, and we are going to hold a brief debate on the request made by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues, to the Science Committee for Reporting on Dr Kurt Grünewald's motion 1/A, colleagues on a federal law, with which amends the Federal Law on the Organisation of Universities and its Studies, University Law 2002, a period of time until 9. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. The applicant, Dr. Grünewald, is now speaking. I'll give it to him for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17431	Madam President. High house! I know that some of you no longer want to hear the word “student fees” and can – as others do not want and can hear the words “government reform” and “new elections” anymore. But what's the matter? – Students pay to study. At the three medical universities alone, more than 300 students are waiting to continue their studies. That has reasons: There are poor care conditions, too few seizing places, too few laboratory sites, too few seminar places. They lose one to two semesters, but – continuity is preserved – they continue to pay. 100 applications per seminar or laboratory site are not rare in Austria. The lot often decides whether a person needs to suspend his studies for weeks or months and, in the meantime, cannot even carry out examinations due to certain study regulations. The people who “stand ” thus lose valuable lifetime, but – what remains continuous – they continue to pay. The care conditions are below average compared with Europe, i.e. with the EU. Alone at the university Vienna meets about 240 students per professor. Some university teachers take care of more than 30 diplomas, others can no longer take up dissertations because they no longer manage. This has nothing more to do with quality. But what are the consequences of the government? – It is fixed that the financial costs per capita of a student have fallen over the last 30 years; they have fallen like the proportion of the university budget in gross domestic product. This is not a state of affairs if you constantly take the words “education, ” “youth, ” “opportunity ” into your mouth and politically want to beat capital out of it. But now, if you draw the conclusions from it, if there are bottlenecks, poor care conditions and nothing else to take in than entrance barriers, there is nothing else to think of as a study place restriction, but to continue to cash, that is, as I mean, relatively poor. This is very poor because all education politicians, OECD experts in the EU, are well aware that education is a value – not only the abstract concept of ‘education’, but also within the framework of that, when one sees it as an education. So every invested money in the education sector, in universities and colleges has a high return for the state and for the location Austria. But this also carries a return on students, because they are naturally becoming smarter, more manageable, their scope for action is expanding. They become more critical, more attentive, less It's seductive. And it should also be worth the policy if it does not, so to speak, count with “voice” – a angry expression. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We should invest money for this – and no one will tell me that study fees are an incentive to study. Austria needs only to achieve the average of EU students at an age of 53 percent in the EU, 37 percent of us, de facto – we have said it often enough – more than 100 000 students. And if you think you can achieve that when you ask for tuition fees, you really have to go ahead with this evidence. With France, Austria is one of the only nations with fewer students in 2005 than in 1998. That's blamable! Let's not talk about students now! For many, students are an enemy image. A State Secretary once said to me: What's that stupidity with tuition fees? The students have so much money anyway, because every time I go to a good restaurant, the students take away the parking spaces! – These are poor arguments; we never want to hear them again. I'm not calling his name now. But it not only affects students, but also the much and often thoughtlessly quoted middle class. Students work as much as never before, 60 percent, not only to acquire practice for their studies, but mainly to finance their livelihood – statistics and good studies, academic studies. Tell me the following: What do parents who have two children who do not live in the parental housing association or study at the place of residence? What do parents do if the average cost of living is given to students with 800 € including rent? That's 1 600 € – and that's at least 300 € or 400 € more than the average monthly income of the Austrians. What are they gonna do? Is this encouraging for parents, is it encouraging for young people to take the risk of studying? - I think no. There, I think all the alarm bells have to ring. This is not a cheap mantra, not an emphasis, not a rigidity of the Greens, to say that study fees – certainly, I admit – are not the biggest of all disasters in the world. But does a policy have to be measured by whether it only produces disasters – or whether it also sends educational signals? – If she sends educational signals, she should show young people and her parents that students at universities and tertiary education are welcome and not that one fears them: What? More than 100 €? How can I pay for that? The state would have the money. According to calculations, by their later somewhat higher incomes, students pay almost all transfers to the State through their taxes back, but for years they give up income. That's what's going on. Do you tell me which students are reaching these 45 years of pension insurance contributions? Nobody's talking about that! Studying is not only a privilege – but not only – but often also hard work and means abandonment for the individual student and his family. If you know that single mothers no longer continue in their studies for financial reasons, that conditions exist at universities that result in non-indebted study delays, I say: Sa you have to do something! Please Believe You're telling me: I really don't talk nonsense, that can be explained. East-East It is only possible to win richly if wider sections of the population are granted access to higher education than before. Unfortunately, my courageous colleague Broukal is not here now. He seems to have thrown his proverbial hat somewhere. I regret it because it needs a certain courage. I also regret that one does not have the courage to contradict one's partner, even his government partner. That's where you could show profile. That's a far-reaching chance. But, well, I'm not the PR adviser of the Social Democrats. That's where they should come up. I really want you to consider this if you don't have the Courage here, because there are times when you can discuss this topic after the elections. And you do something good for the students, their relatives, but also – without becoming pathetic now – that is fact and proven to the Republic if you allow as many children as possible to not be made difficult by tuition fees even from lower income and higher education levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17522	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. Mr Dr Niederwieser has been informed of the point. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17547	Madam President. High house! Of course, tuition fees are an extremely important subject for high school policy, especially for us and especially for a party that has moved on this issue in the last election campaign. You know that as well as I do. At the same time, however, you know that the tuition fees are part of what we consider to be a good university policy: no tuition fees, as far as possible free university access, sufficient funding, co-determination and the possibility of working internationally – all this belongs to good universities for us. We've gone a bit further in the last one and a half years. I should like to remind you that it has been this federal government that, after a long time, has significantly increased the study aid for the first time. This increase did not happen under black and blue, it happened not under black-orange, but under red-black. We have also tried to put the university law on new legs in such a way that one can actually achieve a motivation boost at the universities again. There we are absolutely not satisfied with our coalition partner, with what Minister Hahn has presented. I just mention one example: If the coalition paper as an example of co-determination contains the voting rights of the works councils in the university councils, and then you still have to discuss – what I know, how long – whether there is this or not, colleague Brinek, then you simply lost the courage afterwards to actually enforce what was originally done. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not how it stands inside!]] But we might have brought that too. Now we have a chance, as Mr Greenewald sees it, to abolish the tuition fees. What about this opportunity when you look at it? – We tried this in autumn 2006, Mr Green Forest, when there was no government yet. And we have found that there is no majority in this House for the abolition of tuition fees. That's a fact. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Today already!]] – Not even today, because with some sichcherness will become Green – if you are all here – will vote in favour, and we will vote in favour, as far as we are complete, but the EIA will not vote in favour of it, it will not vote in favour of an abolition, and it will not vote for the FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Kogler: votes are planned for these cases!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Ah that?- Oh, my God!]] Things have already been tried and discussed. If we had tried this, how far we would actually have come today, we will now see it at 3:15 p.m. If we had joined in this game – what you are saying here: free play of the forces – then if we had adopted this free game of the powers of a point, we would be able to start with without a German chancellor, then without a Vice-Cancellor, then without Minister of Transport, then without Minister of Agriculture, and at the end without the entire government. Well, we probably wouldn't have voted each other anymore. That's the fact. One cannot have a limited vote on a subject – that would be naïve – because the ÖVP has at least – I do not need to break your head – also some issues, where it would very much like to vote against us with the FPÖ and the BZÖ: further subsidies for farmers, additional reliefs for businesses and the like. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Hey! Hey!]] There are enough things that are not done, and therefore, even if many of us find it difficult to do so, it is quite reasonable to bring this coalition, as it was said yesterday, to the end and not to proclaim the total conflict on these three days, where no one in the end knows what is left. [[Abg. Oils: “With propriety ”?- Oh, my God!]] Therefore, we have made the promise not to match each other, which, on the other hand, does not mean that everyone must vote in favour of everything, where it is totally difficult for them and where they have been against the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17653	Next, Mrs. Dr. Brinek will speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17674	Madam President. High house! I would like to make a few points about the statements made by the applicant, Mr Greenewald. The care ratio at universities in Austria is approximately 1 : 17. The fact that there are pressure points in several studies is clear. But we also have a UG, a university law that allows universities to focus on and say in a cultured, transparent way where the priorities will be, where there are expansion plans, and where there are recovery plans. Because if we do not allow this, we will not achieve a modification of the portfolio, the programmes at all. We must admit that. I asked the student lawyer: What are the current complaints? In what number do they occur? – This is very limited, and the cases mentioned can often be clarified. There are often misunderstandings or indebtedness on both sides – the university and the students. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I heard something else!]] I think we should identify problems where they should arise and develop solutions – but not generally black-painting. I admit, there is a need for action in medical studies. The expertise of the Science Council, published, states: Yes, at the Wiener AKH, at the MUV the doctors do not come to research, probably also difficult to teach because they are busy with medical services. - It has to be stopped. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: You know that for 20 years!]] The city of Vienna has to employ healthcare doctors. The Federal Government already pays all doctors at the University of Medicine in Vienna. We must also take note of that. In this case, a problem that is manageable and needs to be solved to take for all that I think is dangerous, because with it all the teachers are being miscredited and they are prevented from fulfilling their teaching and care obligations. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Then solve the manageable if you can!]] Still something else is in constant discussion: There is no right to a special caretaker. It may already be that, for more honest and unfair reasons, many candidates suddenly take care of a supervisor, because there is a very quick result. And no one cares about the other. This is one thing that needs to be balanced in the organization unit, which is why there are 25 demands for one caretaker and none for another. There is a right to care, but there is no right to a subject, and there is no right to a special caregiver or caretaker. Let's return to the occasion. This government – it has already been mentioned by Mr Niederwieser – has brought a lot into line: first of all, the increase in scholarships or study grants. There is the highest grant for the costs you mentioned. That means: If a student has no support at home, he/she will receive the maximum grant including family support, which does not exist, for example, in Norway, Sweden, Finland – countries that you have listed in the application – and can thus study with this social state support. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: The word “Norway” has never been taken into my mouth!]] . Your request says that I have dealt with your request, Mr President. So let's leave the church in the village! The decision to develop 2% for the tertiary education sector by 2020 is also binding, I believe, for any government that comes after it. Economics researcher Aigerer – I don't even have to quote – even says that we won't find out with the 3-percent research target à la longue. We will not be able to distribute the 2 percent with the casting can – as I always say – but very precisely by focus where urgent need is given. Aiger said – colleague Sburny was in the research dialogue – that we should put even more emphasis on science, technology. This means, in the same way, more structured, controlling these areas. Have you considered, Mr Greenewald, why, in countries with access restrictions, the number of students is usually higher? – So restrictions on access, whether admission procedures or moderate contributions, as we have them in Austria, are not the obstacles, but first, in our country, a culture is still to be changed, as I am with you. The direction is right. We are 37 percent maturant, which goes to the tertiary area, and we have to reach 40 percent. We're on a good way. In the technical universities, we have 30 percent of the study offer accompanying work; we want to reach 40 and 50 percent respectively. This is a task that, in order to quote a professor, every government, whether striped, dotted, yellow, green or red, must fulfil. These problems need to be worked on. So it's not the study contributions! The number of students has increased since the introduction of the study contributions; the scholarships have also been increased. It is the liquid, the discipline of studying has since improved; we have been in the OECD for a long time in this regard. In future, we will have to work on major objectives, on common objectives, on binding educational objectives, but the abolition of study contributions does not belong to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17756	Mr Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17777	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can't help myself, but I can't see any more logic in the SPÖ policy. Now you could show that you have always been and still are against the tuition fees. I know there is more important and there has been greater challenges, above all, to this government, which has not succeeded, but the study fees are kind of a symbol, which is a synonym for this strange course of SPÖ, which has not actually led anywhere, but which has come to the People's Party to be able to move a little somewhere. In my opinion, this was a very serious mistake, and this error is very good at these tuition fees. The Austrian People's Party always represents the interests of the rich, the super-rich, and these rich, Mrs. Brinek, do not need to pass the study fees, because these empires can pay their daughters a few hundred euros more; that is no problem at all. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: So indifferent! That's where you're going!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: The Super Rich!]] Yes, but also the rich. Of course, they represent primarily the super-rich, but we stay with the rich. But there are also students who have to wait in the evening so that they can afford to study – we do not need to conduct this discussion, we have often conducted it enough – who need to wait in the evening so that they can afford to study during the day. And these students, ladies and gentlemen, have so far been represented by the Social Democrats – and today you can prove that this is still the case. I can now read to you what Chancellor Gusenbauer did on 4 April. January 2008 said to the “standard”: “I am still sorry today that we could not abolish them because I still consider them pointless.” However, the problem was that neither in the government nor in Parliament is a majority, Gusenbauer explained." There is no need for a majority in the government to vote unanimously, but there would have been a majority in Parliament. At that time, I thought: It is good that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is voting against the government. But today it would be possible, Mr Niederweiser. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer said yesterday that this is not possible today, and you say that no majority would be found for it. – Today you may finally be represented by the SPÖ once again by those who have chosen you, but you are being tricked again, you are being pulled over and under the table! Today you could really show that it is the People's Party – and only the People's Party – that operates non-social policy. With this little gesture of consent to our request, you could show it. Instead, Mrs Kuntzl said yesterday in the “time in the picture” that you fear that other majorities in Parliament will then come up, which could be against your interests. What is it for a democratic understanding, if one is afraid that the majority in Parliament may occasionally represent other interests than their own? – You’d rather betray those you chose before such a thing comes about! I can well understand that Mr Broukal throws the towel if, within a few months, he is told three times more or less to vote against his knowledge and conscience and against his own request. I can also understand that Mr Rudas is not present today and would rather not hold this debate. Today, from the SPÖ, you have the decision to make between a strategy and the appropriate party discipline, which last leads nowhere, and a discharge of students. But I think you've already made the decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17856	Mr Graf has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17877	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wanted to hold back a little on this issue today, because I didn't want to feel so much in open wounds – quite honestly – which are probably present with you, but if Mr Niederwieser, the predecessor and now successor of Mr Broukal suddenly takes the Freedom Party as an excuse, then we have to talk about it. [[towards SPÖ]] It is not right that there is no majority in this House for this! We would – and I have said this to Mr Broukal – carry it along, and we will also carry it. We will also support the deadline proposal, but for multiple reasons: because we have agreed in the opposition that we are mutually supporting the requests for deadlines; this is only happening in order to bring a subject to the discussion at all. I take note of the fact that the ÖVP announces the coalition to you from the SPÖ and continues to insist on it – as an intermediate performance for the day after the election, obviously. If you want to change something at all, then you also have to take the courage! Mr Broukal has actually responded quite decently, because sometime he has said, now is the end. It's enough for him, too. That's worthy of recognition. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where is the Lord Stadler? It's just cashing! Is this also decent, Mr. Stadler?]] But if you start to fear that there are majority voting in Parliament on issues that are not pleasant to you, then you are not a strong democrat, I say. I'm not afraid of law decisions. No matter how they come about, one takes note of what it is and tries to change it in the context of its political activity. But you have to get rid of the SPÖ now, and you should not be able to escape into the excuse that you had fought like the lions, but unfortunately God did not get through because there was no majority. You from the SPÖ, your group, are the only ones who have failed to bring about the abolition of the study contributions in multiple national votes during this legislative period. Now I say something about the content of the study contributions. – Yes, it is right, we have introduced the study contributions during the time of the ÖVP/FPÖ coalition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Unfortunately, this was not required by God for any scientific or university organizational, but in reality for budgetary reasons; one must openly admit that. At that time it was called – and there you tried to negotiate the best; that's just like that: Commitment to improve teaching and infrastructure for students. That, I say, was not my ideal model either, because our ideal model was always to transfer it in the context of autonomy limited to a bandwidth that can go from zero to – above it now – 1 000, combined with a legal claim, so that the universities can of course also be asked to the cash register in the event of delays in study. It would be an ideal thing to suggest to me that you could introduce. Then it would also stop that the rectors are always only responsible for politics. They would have to bear the responsibility for what they put on politics and for what they are lobbying for in order to carry out something, even once. That would be nice and right in this matter. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We had to take note of the fact that, in the following period, the study contributions were not intended to be spent on the interests of students and to improve infrastructure, but that even what was stated in the draft law, namely that one can take part in the use of funds, then it was no longer possible to find in the actual law. That is why we have said freedom of movement: Among these chewings, we are in favour of taking this up and thinking about new models, because it is only a financing of universities that is too little for us in this regard! And that's what happened: Austria is the third or fourth largest country in the world. If the majority of this House were really concerned, we would also be able to do that, as I mean, but in your opinion, there are always “superior interests”. I take note of what I do not like at all, however, that Mr Niederwieser, whom I very much appreciate as far as university matters are concerned, is now making an awful effort, so to speak, claiming that the FPÖ is to blame on the whole! This is an attempt by you, Mr Niederweiser, but you really can't get over it with that! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] For this reason – you have now challenged us again –: Just carry this with you from the SPÖ! Austria, the third or fourth-richest country on this earth, will endure this budgetaryly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17961	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darmann. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e17983	Madam President. High house! Appreciate to seeers on the gallery and at home! The Greens want to abolish the study contributions, since they are said to be a non-social barrier to entry. [[Deconstratetive appeal to the Greens]] . I ask the Greens and also the SPÖ, which always deviates and does not know exactly how to do so, but also the colleague Graf, what they say on the following figures. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don’t “wink”! We want to get rid of them, but we can't!]] I listened very closely, Mr Graf, for what reason You want to agree to this deadline request, but: The facts show quite a different picture, for example, when you see that the numbers of students at universities have increased by more than 20 percent since the introduction of study contributions and by more than 80 percent at the vocational universities. Similarly, the average duration of studies was reduced, as “everlasting students” stopped studying and no longer took advantage of the benefits of a student ID, although they did not take any steps in their training. – So there are now fewer dropouts and on average better grades in university examinations. That is, these are very clear signals at the universities that show that study contributions are not necessarily a study inhibitor, but that, quite the contrary, a lot has gone on in the positive direction at the universities. – As you spoke here, Dr. Grünewald, of ‘educational signals’: If you calculate the average study contribution from about €370 per semester to six months, you can see that the €2 per day for a higher education, for a higher education! You must not let that fall under the table – but this has been tried to communicate here –: Exactly those people... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can repay it! You didn't pay!]] – I paid my last semester study contributions – and I also accelerated my studies accordingly. There was already the steering function given! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Did you pay her?]] . I have paid, my colleague, and we can discuss this in detail later; I do not want to finish my speaking time with it now. Yes, it is also about the social aspect. There are social grants, and there are benefits grants. There may already be a need for improvement in the case of several students who live in a corresponding family situation and fall through the social network, but normally there will be a study grant, as well as a benefit grant. But again: Education must also be worth us! There is a report by Dr. Hans Pechar from the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Research and Training of the University of Klagenfurt, who stated that the majority of students in Austria accepted a financial contribution to their own studies. If this is linked to the fact that, according to OECD study, a study place in Austria costs an average of €9 350 per annum and the student who actually has to pay a study contribution – many of them are excluded – only 7.7 per cent of the cost of full higher education, but later, as you have said by other political groups, can achieve a better professional development, then you have to say that a study contribution of € 2 per day and nose, i.e. per student, can be very well required. I believe that the steering function of these study contributions already mentioned is self-evident. Mr Grünewald, you said that wider shifts should be allowed access to the university. – I fully agree with that, but do not believe that this problem lies in the study contributions at the beginning of a university education, it is rather the case that, before passing to a university, the school benefits must be given. Such schooling must be possible for people from all walks, including those from socially weak groups. And then it will also be possible, by focusing on this area, to enable people who are now denied access to study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18057	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues, the Scientific Committee for Reporting on the request 1/A by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Organisation of Universities and their Studies (University Law 2002) until 9. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[15:36:38]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18108	I will resume the negotiations on points 3 to 5 of the agenda. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Its welcome time is 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18133	Madam President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all know that a debate on energy will very soon lead to a debate on the standard of living, because an increase in standard of living has usually led to an increase in energy consumption. This was the case in the past, but must be completely different in the future, namely: Decoupling of standard of living and energy consumption. I believe that the beginning of the debate, which is becoming increasingly intense now, will ultimately bring about a complete change in the working world as well as the leisure time of each individual. What we are doing today is the beginning of an energy turnaround. We must succeed in creating a sustainable energy mix and meeting the requirement of security of supply and supply ethics. Since it was said here that all this was far too little: We have decided to achieve a massive increase in renewable energy in wind-power with 700 MW by 2015; the construction of 100 MW biomass, taking into account the availability of raw materials. In this context, I should also like to mention: KWK bonus, coordination of support between climate and energy funds, 5 peak kW performance will be the limit. Further: Inclusion of geothermal and solar thermal energy, investment grants for small hydropower plants, cover of eco-electric costs for energy-intensive plants, yes I would like to point out that this is a very important point. Yes, we also need an energy-intensive industry, because we cannot be responsible for initiating a deindustrialization first in order to then import raw materials or materials which have been produced at much worse conditions. This is the context, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, I believe that it is also important to decide today on these eco electricity laws novelle. I would like to thank all those who have helped to bring about this decision. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to stress that we only consider the Ecostrom Act a part – and that with it we also link a CHP law as well as a heat and cooling line development law. You can prove how important this package is for you, too, by putting it through in a short time. For energy efficiency will be one of the main topics in the future, and energy saving will be a bearing pillar. Now, if someone says, it's not like this: We have 3 million tonnes of CO2 savings through the Eco electricity Act, we have a further 3 million tonnes of savings by the expansion of the pipeline, and by raising energy efficiency we expect 3 to 4 million tonnes of savings. This means a considerable reduction of CO2 in the amount of 10 million tonnes. If someone says that's way too little, I'd like to ask: What's enough then? This is a good start, and we will continue along this path. I would therefore like to make an amendment and a motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I thank you for the attention and hope that we have taken an important step in the right and important future of energy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18273	The proposals which have just been submitted, an amendment and a motion for a resolution, are sufficiently supported and also submitted accordingly, are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18400	The next item is Mr Schalle's speech with a 10-minute welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18422	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We are working for the second time today – typically for this federal government! – with the government template, which amends the Ecostrom Act after the amendment has been put back by colleagues Kopf and Bauer at the last minute or the submission has been referred back to committee. But it is still not a burden for the population, but a burden again. In principle, I would like to say that all efforts should go in the direction of saving fossil fuel and reducing CO2. However, in my opinion, this government proposal does not take much into account at all. In the previous novel, the Federal Government has set itself the goal of reaching 15 percent eco electricity by 2015 and without the help of hydropower. Now it is planned that the hydropower will be counted and electricity from hydropower will be included. I already know that electricity from hydropower is also part of the eco electricity, but the goal was quite another. They will achieve an increase of two to a maximum of three percent for the other renewable energy sources and will far miss the goal that you have achieved yourself. Mr. Federal Minister! Energies that cost nothing and do not cause CO2 are greatly disadvantaged in this law, yes, I would even say ignored, such as solar energy, wind energy, photovoltaic energy and geothermal energy. These energies are not dependent on a fluctuating, speculative and most overprice trend on the raw material market. These are always available, and they are mainly free of charge. Mr. Federal Minister, even if you do not want to hear it: I am still seeing this law as a purely support policy for agriculture, for industry, but also for the protection of energy groups. And the cost of this is borne by the consumer. He pays the bill for this because he is – and I would like to stress this again – still burdened with high energy prices and not relieved. In this context, an example should be given to Carinthia, where, according to the AK investigation, the lowest diesel price was allowed by the opening of the national gas stations in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Here you, Mr Federal Minister, could assert your influence and address your national leaders so that they can follow the example of the Carinthian. [[Abg. May. Trunk: The Villacher example!]] - That one, too. As far as the support for the paper industry is concerned: There can be no double funding here. I would have liked that if a company did not have a place on the market, the environmental funding would not be used for purposes, but for companies other possibilities would be sought and found, so that the company and the jobs would be preserved. The increase of only 4 million in support of renewable energy is also a joke. I still do not understand why you, Minister of State, were so generous at the foundations. There is half the tax rate deleted, but in the case of renewable energies you are actually very small. I also believe that an important point is that the treatment of hot water with solar or heat pumps should be regulated in such a way that it is mandatory for all new buildings and renovations. That should be promoted, and you should also promote it from my point of view. In the case of disbursement of housing under climatic conditions such as insulation of buildings and water treatment by solar energy, there is an acute need for action. But – I like to repeat – the most important measure should be and must be to save energy. There is the consumer, the consumer, there we are all in demand – and also our commitment. Well from my point of view, it would be an introduction of a bonus malus system, tailored to the average consumption of persons or households. Those who save energy receive a bonus, if they consume more, a malus. Here you can save a lot of power plants. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For these reasons we will be the second. Ekostromgesetz-Novelle does not agree. Now to the government template: The Federal Act, which redefines provisions in the field of cogeneration. From my point of view, there must be no combined heat and power used with fossil fuels. In addition, it is taken out of the law and regulated in its own law, that is, this, but that which is worrying, is financed by means of the Eco electricity Act. Furthermore, I believe that the CHP is partly going in the wrong direction. If, for example, at the meeting of the Advisory Council for Investment Grants concerning the promotion of CHP projects for Vienna's electricity, the State of Vienna has asked whether the heat market can even absorb the heat supply of district heating, whether a parallel pipeline expansion is useful for district heating, then all the alarm bells would really have to ring. The president, Mr Dickinger of the Ministry, stressed that district heating was in line with the goal of energy efficiency and therefore enjoyed the support of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. It will be supported without a genuine need test. It is even more worrying when the problem is addressed in Vienna, where it is the largest urban conurbation centre. I don't want to know what it looks like in small cities and communities! Also, although the waste disposal companies for garbage, wastes, wastes up to 100 percent will get more, the fee will be increased and the public unjustly will receive a price increase. Very worrying that there is a monopoly of the ARA here. That would actually be an important point for the competition authority, Mr. Federal Minister. To the Federal Act, which amends the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act. We will agree. After the networks are not privatized and not separated, so the old regulation will be maintained, I can only hope that your commitment, Minister of State, in the Committee, will be able to implement a reduction in network costs and it will be cheaper for citizens. As a company, one of the largest and most valued listed companies in Europe and Austria is the most important hydropower company and is also intended to remain: Here I am actually surprised by the process of ordering the new Director General Wolfgang Anzengruber. As you can see from the media, one month earlier he signed a five-year contract with his previous employee, and then changed to a combination in a night and fog action. I have to wonder how this can happen. Mr. Federal Minister Bartenstein, I ask you how the appointment, appointment, order is made by you, whether you are at risk of the Director-General getting out of the next better job – or was the party book decisive here? Where party-political orders lead, one sees what is happening now. [[Abg. Murauer: Do you know the anzengruber, Mr. Colleague?]] I would just like to give you two examples: Mr Ötsch, who literally flies the AUA into the ruins, and the ÖBB, where the Chief Financial Officer has speculated €300 million. Both are still in office – in the private sector unthinkable! Mr. Federal Minister, the party book economy is far from qualified for a job! Good night, Federal Government! Good morning, Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18497	It has now come up with a report by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18519	Mr President-in-Office of the Council and of the Director-General of the Council - that is what I am speaking to you now - Veit Schalle! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a top man of the economy, who you were and are also safe, you should already be familiar with the processes that belong to the appointment of a Chairman of the Board of Directors after tendering, in particular that the Supervisory Board is responsible here and not, for example, an owner's representative. Secondly, Your reaction has so far been the only negative that has come to my ears to order the future compound general Anzengruber. So here, with your opinion, you are not only alone, but miles alone in this country. I am confident that Mr Anzengruber, whom I personally met only in retrospect, will make his job excellent. There is no doubt about the value of the composite society in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I have my doubts, Mr deputies, if you said that power plants should be saved, even though a few minutes later you praised the union as a hydropower group. But, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you and all the Members who sit here will be one of the supporters of the Hydropower Master Plan in the future. As important as it is that we save net 1.5, gross 3 million tons of CO2 per year through the Ecostromgesetz-Novelle – the difference is the large hydropower which is being expanded here, so both figures are correct – so important that is, we should already be able to harvest the 3 million tons we can get out of the title of expansion of large hydropower in the next few years. This has the advantage, it does not need any means of taxation at all, since it does not need any resources from the electricity payers at all. Hydropower is available in Austria, and of course it needs to be developed ecologically and with the involvement of citizens' interests and citizens' concerns. This is a sensible climate protection, ladies and gentlemen. A third contradiction, Mr Schalle: It is not right that this eco-power law novel – this is a comprehensive novel – brings disadvantages for solar, wind and photovoltaic energy! On the contrary! I told you in committee: In the field of photovoltaics, it brings a fivefold increase in the volume of expansion from 3 to 16 megawatts per year. In terms of wind power, it brings up a potential of at least 700 megawatts. This potential has been calculated by experts, this potential is also questioned by no one, you have to put it into practice. For example, what is still the great residual potential in terms of wind power in Germany is not available to us, because this is offshore wind energy, and we are once land-locked, are an interior. As I have already done in the Committee, I would like to thank the honourable Member Bauer and, of course, the Head of Parliament and all the staff, for this was a very extraordinary achievement and a very good cooperation. If it had happened somewhere else, who knows. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this good cooperation should also include the implementation of what we have agreed, not only because it is politically agreed, but because it also makes environmental sense in terms of energy policy. We will, although it is a mega-work of my official staff, have been and will probably still be, in the next few hours bring in an initiative proposal – that is, you will bring it in – to the Heat and Cooling Management Act, saying: to promote district heating and remote colds. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, we will be able to decide very quickly here in the House so that it will not be pushed to the long political bank, ladies and gentlemen. I also believe that in some other relationship a breakthrough has been achieved. Mrs Lichtenecker, I know and appreciate your expertise. That's why I don't understand that you don't understand, for example, that this lid of € 21 million per year is actually just a virtual lid. I think you don't want to understand it because otherwise you went out of the argument politically. These plus € 21 million a year – so little is that – are nothing but: If the lid is exceeded, if there are more projects approved, then the Minister of Economic Affairs as Minister of Energy is invited to look at the law. So it's a review clause and not an absolutely effective lid. We have discussed this more often, and, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take note of it at least during this second reading, which we are doing here today, after referral back to committee. Moreover, I would also ask you to compare the data a little if you blame me for not taking sufficient note of the statements made by the national Heads of State Conference and, above all, of the country's environmental experts. Of course, statements of the national conference have a very, very high priority for all of us and for myself; I will You may also remember it on occasion. They're not sakrosanct, but we want to take this as good as possible. Only if you blame me for not referring to the opposite novel, will I tell you that the decision dates back to 4. January 2008, was a circular decision of the country's environmental experts, then is on 28 January 2008. It was supported by the national leaders on April 20, 2008 and was then supported by the state environmentalists on April 20, 2008. In June 2008, it was renewed again, in other words, the third recast of this decision. In the meantime, a great deal has been done and, in particular, the representatives of Bauer and Kopf, together with their colleagues and employees, have developed this eco electricity law very much. Mrs Lichtenecker, I would very much like to leave a difference in the room because I see Mr Grillitsch sitting on the right side of me. Also, Neugebauer is not on the left again, but on the right side of me, thank you for this guidance aid: Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'm on pöls! You can also give me x-fold over the press, that is to say large-scale industrial promotion and others, but I am standing at Pöls, where it is about securing a few hundred jobs on site, in the factory and a few thousand jobs around it. This is already something like green cynicism, as it is more about large-scale industrial promotion or similar. There is the head of state of Styria behind it – because you usually take so much account of national leaders – because the employee representatives, at least in Styria, stand behind it, there are a lot of people behind it that we make this story for Pöls. Call it “Lex Pöls”! That's what the pölsers will do. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: No, it's a Lex Heinzl!]] But this also keeps Grillitsch and I off, quite, completely loose. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: As Minister of Economic Affairs...!]] Madam honourable Members, if you also think that a biomass expansion of 15 megawatts per year is ridiculous, I would also refer to the experts, ultimately also to the experts of the energy recovery agency and the e-control. It is not true that additional biomass is infinitely available in Austria. The expansion potential has been estimated with 100 megawatts; if it's 200 or 300 megawatts, it's wonderful – ate, bought! That would be useful. But this is the estimate that exists today, and this, divided by five or six years, results in this 15 megawatt. So it is, I think, an important, a good, a great novel. Hand in mind – no matter if Mr. Landesrat were instigator or others – I have specifically heard little of solid counterarguments. General, German EEG and much more, yes, but in the matter Hannes Bauer, Karlheinz Kopf and I are quite sure that we have put something clearly improved on the table of the house. I am so pleased that, in particular, on a politically natural day like today, this law can be passed in as broad a form as possible and that we have also agreed politically on how to move forward in terms of heat and cooling. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That was the great cow trade of the nation! Last day!]] That's what we've been doing in the last few weeks. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18614	Mr Mitterlehner has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18635	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow the whole subject reminds me of the film “And daily the Murmeltier greets me. ” [[Calls to the Greens.]] We have already had the Eco electricity Act twice in the Committee; twice we have it in the plenary session, now there is an additional initiative proposal. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is even the Murmeltier performance of this federal government!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] And again and again there are additional amendments, which should be in the nature of the matter. [[Abg. May. Kogler: In the nature of this government! A Murmeltier government!]] It reminds me of the film, however, because all the speeches that have been made today were not only the same as last time, but were even presented in the same order. The Federal Minister was also just ahead of me. That is why I can at least limit myself to what is really essential. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But today I come to you! Watch out!]] I would like to refer to Mr Schalle, because of course this is a support policy. If you have mentioned here that, on the other hand, the fossil energy in the market sector is of course becoming increasingly expensive – which we have unfortunately followed now – then there is the idea and philosophy behind it that sometime the intersection should be reached. Because what we are doing is to support prices with the help of households and industry. That is why the technology should develop in such a way that we reach these intersections as soon as possible. That is why I do not quite understand – but, Mrs Lichtenecker, you have almost contradicted yourself anyway! On the one hand, you have criticized the whole law – as bad as it would be, you have done so every time the eco electricity law has been debated – but you have said in the opening that it is a very important law. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Eh!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Unfortunately...!]] Not: it would be, but: it is a very important law. That is why I am very glad that this law is now being finalized in spite of all the difficulties. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Well, the next cow trade!]] Why? – Because there is legal certainty, because there is clarity, even for investment decisions. In the context – the Minister has mentioned it – the 21 million are a provisional cover. If there is a need that the volume is greater, there is a corresponding revision. From our point of view, the transition in the field of small hydropower to investment promotion and the extension of time limits are also positive, but also with regard to energy-intensive companies. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Small hydropower plants!]] That's where I'm allowed to explain a little contradiction. They always keep this issue to me that the industrial companies will be relieved in the form. Right in the context: Industrial companies are no longer taxed if they exceed the net production value of 0.5 percent. - That's the whole thing. That is why we are now relatively advanced in this direction. I think it is a good law that gives a clear starting point for investment decisions. That is why I do not understand your criticism – but I understand that we all agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18770	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18791	Madam President. Federal Minister! - He's back. Yes, every day this Murmeltier government comes across to us, you might think. But thank God, not for long! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You are right, this proposal has been extremely comprehensively debated in Parliament. It hasn't changed too much. As far as the approval quotas outside the House are concerned, it has not only been the national conference. The entire Styrian Landtag, including the ÖVP delegates there, has joined this division and, essentially, even if you can't hear it now, demands that this novelle be based on the objectives and, indeed, on the measures of the German EEG. Be it, there are a few Styrian Members – not too many, I have the feeling right now – here in the hall. Mrs Steibl, yes... [[Abg. Steibl: But still more than with the greens!]] [[Further calls.]] Well, the quota is a little better with us, but let's leave it. [[Abg. Steibl: But not with the delegates from Styria!]] Then make that up at the party headquarters. You work in the state government anyway, but you don't have it that far to the country day. Let's get to the heart of the matter. In fact, most of it is said that I agree with you. But if you want to allow a comparison as to the photovoltaic systems If in one year – if we take out 2006 – in the Federal Republic 600 times more installed performance than in Austria appears, then that is for itself. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Then I agree!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grillitic.]] I do not understand at all, Mr Commissioner, why you are constantly intertwining here. [[Abg. Steibl: To improve your speech!]] In any case, this may have to do with the fact that there is a massive agricultural support here, and the other areas have left you a little on the side. We are also committed to the promotion of biomass, not a question. It would only be much more inside in other areas. As far as Pöls is concerned – so that we can take it under one and quickly – one can already discuss whether and to what extent these industries are to be kept. I believe that in the long term, massive support for the paper industry and the pulp industry for Austria is not the only future. But be it in the individual case. Only: A more correct designation and a more budgetaryly correct thing would have been if one had taken this from other economic promoters and not from eco-electric production. Of course, there are also many other methods that may eventually have something to do with more energy efficiency or otherwise. They're not in here either! The point is: Here, quite normal economic promotion – ultimately, it is a concrete operation, which is probably true in the dimension – is operated under the roof and under the title of the Ecocurrent Act. Nothing worse should happen, but Mrs Lichtenecker has rightly pointed this out. But in order not to always repeat everything in the field of eco electricity law, we are repeating another debate which is becoming much more relevant for the future. [[Abg. Grillitsch: 6,000 people benefit from this investment in Pöls!]] Look, if we already have such a topic here, then the question arises: How is the energy industry going? What surprises me a little is this constant persistence and relatively short-sighted acceptance of the arguments of the industrial union: it costs households and businesses something, and what I know. When we transfer this thought, it is only a matter of a few years that, when prices rise for fossil energy sources, the following will occur. These rise with certainty, for reasons of scarcity and also for other reasons. There may be a speculative element in this, but long-term development is quite clear. If we were to be among those countries that are in a timely, detailed and intensive manner – and we are actually losing our very good position years ago – to support these technologies accordingly, such as in the provision of eco electricity, but even in the energy and environmental industries, then these technologies tend to become cheaper, at least relatively cheaper compared to the competitors. It's got to be clear to everyone! As far as the use of solar energy is concerned, as far as different forms of solar use are concerned, one does not even need to fill one substance. There is no need to cut a tree like biomass – however, it is solar energy – but you only need to wait for the sun to shine. It will seem more in the future due to climate change! At any rate, it will be warm enough and also sunny enough for all these technologies. This is only about the cost of providing these technologies. These curves will soon be cut, and it is only about which economies are the first in the world. This must inform a supposedly forward-looking party and economic party like the ÖVP! But you're just standing on the brake, and that's annoyed and not perceptive. Mr Bartenstein, you have already done a lot of work. It's really stupid when, in 40 years, the school books say that you were the leader of the fossil economy in Austria and that others have introduced this turn. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: (laughing) “Leitfossil”?]] Go in in time, and come in. You're fast enough on this eco-track! This is also very interesting economically. That's what we're trying to get it used to. You must look for the Murmeltier performance on your government bank – and leave Parliament in peace for what you have already done here!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18917	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 3 minutes' time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e18938	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ecostromgesetz, the second – about a month ago we already discussed the contents. It's not just about the eco electricity law, it's also about the KWK law. It is about setting up a management structure which the Federal Minister has already mentioned. It's about reviving the heating bill – that's what comes after, don't worry – and a related strengthening of consumer rights. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: The line expansion...!]] Finally, it is also about social aspects for social assistance and compensation recipients in order to exempt them from the penalty. This is ensured by the amendment tabled by Mr Bauer. Overall, I would like to maintain that it is a good solution for people and also a good solution for eco-power operators. One thing is clear: The original government template was not so great. But the chief negotiator Karlheinz Kopf and Hannes Bauer has succeeded in working out and negotiating improvements so that we can decide on this law today and also say that the expansion stop at the eco electricity has an end. I am also saying – although we may already be in the middle of the election campaign or in the mood of election – that the cooperation between the People's Party and Social Democracy in Parliament, as well as cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, has taken place on this issue. Here is also a thank you to the Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have also ensured by the Committee on Biomass that the raw material balance is not disturbed by the production of green electricity. That is to say, no food for energy production, no reduction of the raw material base for food and feed production by the Eco electricity Act! This too is very, very important. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What I don't understand, although the law brings with it a clear improvement compared to 2006, is that the Greens do not give this law the consent. But the behaviour of the Greens probably does not understand anyone anymore, as was the case in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Should I explain again why it is bad?]] Mrs Lichtenecker, even today it is like this: They only demand – this is the capitulation as an eco party – but have no better proposals. Just practice criticism without being constructive... [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Listen! Of course we have the proposals!]] Mrs Lichtenecker, without constructive proposals, this is not the design claim in this Republic. The Eco electricity Act is the best thing to decide under the given framework conditions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today is a good day for the future operators of eco-electric power plants, because planning security is produced, because clear funding regulations are being decided and because there is a significant impetus for strengthening research in future technologies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19004	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19026	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This Ecostrom Act is an Ecostrom blockade law! It doesn't deserve the name. It is a single embarrassment for this Parliament and also a embarrassment for an economic party such as the ÖVP. Dear Karlheinz Kopf, if you say here that we need a reason for extending the period of the funding period to 20 years, I ask you to simply set up an amortization bill, dear colleague, and also to bring in the feed tariffs that are available in Germany. Then, too, the ÖVP will recognize that it is not possible by this law to produce eco electricity in the field of photovoltaics meaningfully. That's not possible, it's inconceivable with these feed-in tariffs! And when we talk about the ÖVP European Party: Please explain to me, my dear colleague Karlheinz Kopf of the ÖVP, how it is to be agreed that in Greece, in Germany, in Spain we have high feed rates, have long durations, long periods of funding, but these are not allowed in Austria! This is clearly eco-strom blockade – and, please, no excuses! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] It's going on. If the government parties – I do not understand the SPÖ at all – talk to colleagues Bauer that we want to have a share of 15 percent of renewable energy by 2015, that is good and right. You also want to involve the federal states and so-called master plans from the countries, and you also talk about additional biomass plants in these master plans. Please, my dear colleague Karlheinz Kopf, how do you explain to me that just now Klagenfurt is to be congratulated, should it be congratulated with a composite power plant that is completely oversized? – Completely oversized! A gas steam power plant that makes us dependent on supplies of Russian and Iranian gas, which makes us dependent on increases in the energy price and with which the resources available in Carinthia are not used at all. Two figures on this: This gas steam power plant is intended to produce electricity of 400 MW and district heating of 200 MW. Completely oversized! The heat can't be used in Carinthia. We might be able to heat up the Wörthersee in winter, maybe in winter we could go swimming in the Wörthersee and breed fish. That's funny: in the middle of December at the Wörthersee the bathing pants on, very funny – but no one needs this waste heat! The electricity, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, we do not need it in Carinthia either, so it will be exported. That is why there are also lines to Italy. That means: Gas from Iran, gas from Russia, producing dirt in Carinthia, exporting electricity – and the dirt remains with us. [[Abg. Head: What does this have to do with this law?]] Very nice, good ÖVP model! We will point out this in the forthcoming election campaign. [[Abg. Head: What does this corporate decision have to do with the law?]] Mr President, these are your and your words from the government template in which: Master's plans for countries. There are no master plans at all, you are completely unplanned! [[Abg. Head: What does this have to do with the law?]] The only thing that really works with you is that you are promoting the industry! With triple subsidies: first cheap electricity tariffs, highly favourable to industry; second, the Energy Reimbursement Act, which reduces energy costs for industry/groups, that is the second promotion; and thirdly, there is now for pöls, quite rightly mentioned by the Greens, because there is funding of ablue electricity from the resources of the Ecocurrent Act. Incredible: triple support for industry! And those who could really contribute to the continuation and development of a good economy in the field of renewable energy will be completely broken. Mr President, if I look at this, that's what makes the barrel look like! [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] Not only that we are separating areas below 5 kWpeak and over 5 kWpeak in the photo-voltaics area, go here and say: Under 5 kWpeak, only investments and no longer via the feed-in tariff can be promoted, and over 5 kWpeak only via the Ecocurrent Act! This will break both of you: first photovoltaic in the private area, where the simple house builder will no longer be able to afford to install photovoltaics; and second, it will be absolutely impossible for industry to build up photovoltaics rationally. That means large plants are broken in Austria for all time! Why Do I Say “For All Times ”? – Because You have managed to bring this law into the constitutional rank! That is, if this worthless, pointless, incompetent government packs up and goes home, this damage will remain sustainable. That is, this law will permanently destroy Austria in the field of energy, and you have it to answer, gentlemen of the ÖVP, that it has come so far! Only one thing I don't understand at all. Mr Bauer, there are Members of your Parliament, as well as Mrs Petra Bayr, who understand what this is all about. She really understood, but you do just the opposite of what she says. Mrs Petra Bayr has recognized where the way must go – and you can move from the ÖVP over the table! So please, dear SPÖ, with you will really be nothing to do. Pack up, you have completely lost your expertise in the energy sector! Total: A shame for Austria! We will not be able to take advantage of the huge advantages that Germany has succeeded: with the EEG, with the construction of the whole industry, with research/development and with many, many people who have found jobs there. We will not be able to transfer these effects to Austria. [[Abg. Head: That's what we've got!]] For this, dear Karlheinz Kopf and dear ÖVP, Austria will thank you! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19151	Next, Mr. Ing. School speaking. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19173	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Appreciate High House! Somehow, I am now missing the air, according to what Mr Klement here has done about absurdities and abstractions, on a subject that needs all of Austria, which is very well positioned and which has led to a good compromise after a very extensive and detailed discussion. Such expressions simply show that the base is obviously missing. But there must be something like that. [[Call at the FPÖ:What basis?]] The basis of knowledge, the basis of an overview and the basis of the idea of feasibility, is obviously not given to the liberals. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But you'll see, maybe you'll be able to learn about the summer. [[Abg. Neugebauer: At Strache?]] We've seen a lot lately. Among other things, we have heard that the G 8 is just trying to make the nuclear current hopeful again. We know very well that the electricity production of the future depends on imports, on imports of natural gas, on imports of electricity, perhaps also on electricity from nuclear power plants, and if we are not right, we must use all Austrian resources, and the most sensitive resource that we can use is being lifted through this eco electricity law. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: And at what point are we not right?]] There are resources, there is a need for energy sources that you need to buy over and over again, and then there are other resources like the wind, the sun, the water that comes back from itself. In other words, we have two different systems: a system in which it is important to develop things in accordance with the market, and a system in which it is a matter of having the plants once and then using them. That's an exciting thing. In Austria, we have plants that are used, which have been built once and today deliver huge yields with rising electricity tariffs. This is so with the promotion of natural gas – once drilled, huge yields – that is so with the Danube power plants, and hopefully this is also sometime with the built eco-electric power plants. At some point it should also be said: The revenues of old plants such as the Danube power plants or the natural gas production that is being generated today, as tariffs are rising so much, should also be used to finance the expansion of renewable plants. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: And why don't you do that?]] This would be the next step in the eco electricity law, and all those who have taken these steps so far are cordially invited to cooperate in further development. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19258	Now comes Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19280	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to announce very briefly the current market price trend in electricity. This paper, I think, has been published yesterday. In the last three months there has been an increase in market prices by 33 percent! [[The speaker holds a panel up.]] A second chart shows the cost of funding wind energy, which is now going against zero. [[The speaker holds another panel.]] On the one hand, it can be pleased that wind energy is more or less close to the economic breakthrough. On the other hand, the problem with high electricity prices has not yet been solved, even by an eco electricity law. I therefore think that it is essential that the model of Upper Austria be actively implemented in social housing in other federal states. It is about reducing the cost of the budget and thus ensuring the feasibility of energy. I am also pleased that the amendment suggested that the photovoltaic sector for households and social housing should be supported more than before by the Climate and Energy Fund and that, in the next few months and years, the investment in photovoltaics will be simplified. In principle, this eco electricity law has succeeded in making a big step forward. However, it will also be necessary to open up a discussion on market price developments, stock exchange listings and access to stock exchanges at European level or perhaps worldwide in the WTO, because there are people who do not need electricity or electricity on the market. to produce and secure only one factor in this segment, namely the price-driver. And I think that needs to be stopped. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19334	Mr Ing. Hofer is the next speaker. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19355	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you take the time and you want to look at the protocols of the House, then at some point you will find the minutes of that meeting in which we decided the last amendment to the Eco electricity Act, and there were similar words to hear: a good law, responsibly with ecostrom the renewable energies in Austria, et cetera. Reality has looked different. Since then, no wind power plant has been built in Austria. Thank you for presenting this table. – Yes, wind power will no longer have to be subsidized in the future. Why? – Because electricity prices are developing upwards and renewable energy like wind power is becoming relatively cheaper. The We will experience the same in the field of photovoltaics, in which, of course, the photovoltaic cells become cheaper with increasing quantities. It is particularly a pity, therefore, that there are works like Blue Chip Energy that export 99 percent of their products. So great companies that create jobs here in Austria, ensure value added, but do not find a market. I also hear the argument again and again: The promotion of renewable energy is at the expense of the electricity customer, at the expense of households. Ladies and gentlemen! This is in two ways wrong. First of all, the experience from Germany shows us that, due to the functioning of the Leipziger Strombörse and the so-called Merit-Order effect, renewable energy sources have a dampening effect on electricity prices. [[Abg. Head: This applies to any further power input!]] Power price dampening! – This does not, of course, apply to any additional electricity, Mr Kopf, but only to those who can also be offered cheaply. You can say, yes, let's continue to do so, let's continue to import nuclear power. I would like to draw attention to a development that is very, very essential. That is also the reason why I cannot approve of this novel of the eco electricity law. We will experience a trend from 2010 onwards, which will significantly increase the consumption of electricity in Austria. Even now, we are unfortunately able to use less and less electricity from our own renewable sources. Less and less! I think we're holding 58 percent by hydropower now. From 2010, ladies and gentlemen, well-known companies with new cars will be on the market. GM locks four works in the U.S., brings out a new car, the Volt, which is operated electrically. 50 kilometers. For longer distances, a combustion engine is switched on with generator. The second company, Mercedes, will launch a car serial maturity in 2010, also electrically operated, and a car will also be offered through its subsidiary Smart. This also means, of course, that more and more Austrians will access such vehicles, because operating costs per kilometer are only 2 cent. If you compare this with the costs we have with a diesel engine, with a combustion engine, you will realize that is very, very cheap. It follows: More and more Austrians will access these vehicles, and that means: Electricity consumption will continue to increase steadily from the year 2010. In 25 years, ladies and gentlemen, 80 percent of all vehicles in the field of individual transport will be electrically operated. We must therefore think far ahead in this area. That is why I think that the path that Germany has taken with the EEG is the better way: without covering up and with investment security for the operator. That would be the better way. I admit that this model costs money in the first few years, but I think this money is calculated. And I assume that we will recognize this very soon, perhaps at the beginning of the next legislative period, and then there will be a novel of the eco electricity law again. Ladies and gentlemen! But we now decide with two-thirds majority, and I ask you: Will the future coalition parties also have a two-thirds majority after this election? [[Abg. Morak: No!]] - Probably not! It will therefore be much more difficult in negotiations to achieve a re-negotiable, useful novel of the Eco electricity Act, which is likely to be needed again. We are very much in favour of orienting ourselves to the model Germany and deciding an EEG for Austria. Finally, let me draw attention to something that has so far been overlooked by this eco electricity law. I have confirmed to financial experts that there is an urgent need for correction, because at the moment when I am a private person, as a private household, I am power in the network against remuneration, and this is not taken into account at the moment. It's just a matter of time until a skilled employee of the public service also recognizes and demands or repays an advertisement. I very much ask you, very urgently, to examine this and to ensure that those who feed energy into the grid are not punished by paying income tax. Mrs State Secretary, it has been said today that the opposition is more critical but does not make any proposals. – I attach great importance to the fact that opposition parties who practice criticism also show what way they want to go. We have published a book on this subject, which I would like to present to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19426	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19448	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klement, if you say that Pöls is not a supporter, I really have to make this clear. Your party is talking about doing something for the “little man ” over and over again. This means that 450 jobs are secured in Pöls and, subsequently, 4,000 to 5,000 more jobs of subcontractors and so on. So I think it is not possible to argue about it, but at most to discuss it. You have to say: It is good that this law is now in the second run, which means that we vote here in plenary and hopefully vote well, that on the spot – I would like to say that in particular as a steward – in Pöls, the jobs are once again secured. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Thank you for including the Styrian and Salzburg delegates here. To sum up, I would just like to say: Whoever says about climate protection must also say to the expansion of eco-strom. It is time we decided on this law here and now.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19496	Now comes Mrs Mag. Drunk's word. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19518	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. As last time, I should like to refer to two very important initiatives of the SPÖ in this eco-energy law. Point one is that improvement for all consumers in Austria, who will now be entitled to a legal claim upon the entry into force of this law, which means that the correctness of the cost accounting in the energy sector no longer needs to be brought before the court, but that each electricity and energy supplier will receive this legal claim. I believe that this is a real step forward in terms of consumer protection. Secondly, the area of social justice. All those people we are among those who will receive the basic guarantee in the future will be freed from the payment of the additional costs related to the counter-point fee. Mr Bauer has already said this before. These are two important initiatives on social justice and consumer protection. But I can also refer to an area that hurts me very much, very much, which hurts me very much as a Klagenfurt woman and as a Carinthian. I am pleased for Pöls that there is a Lex Pöls because it is completely correct and because this location is properly secured. But it hurts me very much, and I am sorry that the Minister was not ready for a single second to deal with the problems of the city of Klagenfurt and its future. I should like to say that Mr Kopf and Mr Bauer have done their best. I also say that the boards of lobbyism did not operate in time, but you have simply relied on the fact that review, opinion and self-declaration will have an effect. Federal Minister Bartenstein should have known what has been a problem for years. Decommissioning of an old power plant, site creation with civil participation and a great confusion between the state capital and the state capital. There we are outside the deadlines. When this law is passed, I ask you, in the sense of the state capital Klagenfurt, not only because the mayor is an ÖVP party colleague, but also about the citizens! – that we will continue to think about how we can integrate Klagenfurt, because otherwise the additional costs will have to be allocated to energy and electricity providers. That would not be fair and not social. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19563	Mr Steindl has now come to speak. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19584	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For the second time in the house today, Ökostrom was discussed in detail and extensively. There have also been words that have been completely incontrovertible. One goes far too far, the other too far. I mean, it's been found a good way. After all, this is an annual contribution of about €300 million, which ultimately also includes consumers who have to pay for businesses, for consumers in about €45 per household. That's how you have to see it. However, it is also important for the economic location that energy costs for a company are also particularly competitive and competitive. Here, too, a measure I particularly appreciate has been taken in the way that 0.5 percent of the net production value covers these eco-electric surcharges. Finally, let me mention a few facts, because Mr. Klement has carried out today that there is a stock of green electricity and we know where we are with these our eco-strom projects. In total, Austria is top-ranking with 70 percent in electricity generation from renewable energy, followed by Sweden with about 49.1 percent and Portugal with 38.5 percent. The share of renewable energy as a whole is particularly pleasing, where we are also at the top of Europe with 23 percent. At this point, I refer only to the EU climate target for the far-off year 2020. In 2020, the EU has a climate target of about 20 percent of renewable energy. We have done our housework here, are ecologically on the best way and have also found the right mix with the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19618	Mrs Lueger is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19639	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The decision of this eco electricity law in connection with the Kraft-Wärme-Couplungsgesetz is another step, in combination with many other measures – and only that can lead us to the goal together. The starting point is a difficult one: Rising demand for energy, limited fossil reserves and effective climate protection measures pose enormous challenges for us. The transformation of the energy end-use by the example of electricity, where there is a great loss between input and final arrival at the end-user, is a difficult thing and belongs to more attention in future novels. Last week, the Energy Efficiency Platform held a symposium and issued an interim report on the Green Paper to be prepared. The aim is to dampen energy consumption growth. The losses I mentioned first are to be reduced in the future and to be better exploited in the sense of energy efficiency. I would just like to add three more points to this amendment: For the first time, a social aspect has been included in this law – especially the social democrats. This is also supported by Hannes Bauer's application. Another step is the decoupling of co-financing by countries in promoting photovoltaic plants below 5 kW peak. This measure is expected to increase and strengthen. In the case of small hydropower plants, reliefs were facilitated in the implementation of the procedure for granting investment grants. The decision of this Eco electricity Act is an additional step towards achieving the CO2 savings target. It is an important step because the hope that energy consumption will be lower or, above all, cheaper in the future is an almost impossible goal. Therefore, the requirement must be a stabilisation of total energy consumption, in conjunction with clearly defined measures, mandatory and measurable reduction targets and framework conditions so as not to lead to a shift of emissions to other countries. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Not “stabilisation”! Reduction, Mrs. Colleague!]] We will therefore agree to this draft law as a further step towards efficient use of energy today, although knowing that it is not a final product. It is further developed, and I also invite you to participate in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19692	Mr Obernosterer has now come to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19713	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For the second time now, everything has been said about the 2008 Ecostromgesetz-Novelle. I would like to thank Karlheinz Kopf and my colleague, Mr Bauer, very much for the preparation and I am really glad that the decision is being taken today that this law is still going through. Sure, it was said by the opposition parties that that was too little, it was too little promoted. I think, however, that everyone knows: the higher the benefits, the higher the charges. Especially in today's time, energy prices are already so high that it simply can't come to an increased green electricity tax, but rather that we have to start thinking in the other direction. What surprised me a little in the discussion today was Mr Veit Schalle's speech. Mr Schalle, I really appreciate you as one of Austria's top managers. In your speech, however, you bring as a positive example that in Carinthia, the fuel is so cheap because the diesel is a few cents cheaper than elsewhere. Especially you, Mr Veit Sale, who has grown up in the economy and has also brought it to something, know why it is a few cents cheaper: because the infrastructure and staff costs of taxpayers pay. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] That a large economic zampano – as you say – as you, Mr. Schalle, put it in the foreground and loses the ability to think economically, if he belongs only to a party that works populistly, I really don't understand. To believe that everything that the state does and the state pays, the people in this republic don't cost anything, that's not our policy. The EIA's policy is not to spend more than to take it. We all learned: Once you spend again, the next generation has to pay it back. [[Call at the FPÖ:We have experienced it!]] I believe that the commitment to sustainability and commitment to young people in our country must be a priority – not the question of winning 1, 2 or 3 percent in the next elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19779	Mr Voller has now come to the fore. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19800	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On today's day, the decision-making process on the revision of the eco electricity law is finally taking place. Due to some circumstances in recent months – I am thinking of the rescue action for the biogas plants in January or the last action – this decision has always been slowed down. A special topic that I was confronted as a regional representative in the Obersteiermark West constituency is the promotion of a blues in the bio- and pulp-processing industry by means of investment promotions. For the people in the region, for the communities in the region, but also for the Zellstoff Pöls in my neighboring community Pöls, this decision today will bring a positive message. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: But you can do that about economic promotion! We don't need an eco electricity law!]] This is a green light – and they are already on track, namely, 30 million investments that would probably have never been possible without this investment promotion. For the next few years, this will ensure 400 jobs directly at the site, and several hundred, even several thousand, jobs in suppliers. This agreement protects jobs in conjunction with environmental objectives. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's why we need an eco electricity law?]] I would like to thank all those involved in the situation – Mr Kopf, colleague Bauer – especially for ending the uncertainty of the Pöls employees. [[Complementary by the SPÖ.]] In the speech of Mr Grillitsch – and I would like to say this – I have had the feeling in between that he tells something different in Pöls and makes the opposite of it in Vienna, for fear of having to share his clients with the economy. I've had the impression that he's not always quite that way. On the Greens and the FPÖ: Exploring with your today's argument You just yourself, and you will see the result at the next election: They will remain below the perceptive limit in this area in the industrialised upper Styria, because you do not care about the jobs and concerns of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19868	Mr Glaser is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19891	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Greens and the Liberals strongly criticise the still-government parties that we would do too little for the eco electricity law or for the eco electricity. I believe that at least the Greens should once discuss a contradiction in their own ranks, because while you, Mrs Lichtenecker, and Mr Kogler, are massively promoting the use of biomass for green electricity generation, he wants it and cannot have enough of it, it is for the Green Members Weinzinger and Lunacek when it comes to questions of development cooperation, quite a red cloth that biomass is used for green energy. I think that you should resolve this contradiction once before you make such, partly non-comprehensible demands! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] I mean, both are necessary. It is necessary that we ensure the adequate availability of environmentally friendly energy, just as it is necessary to ensure food supply. Both are quite possible and must be no contradiction: It is not a problem, it is a part of the solution when we use biomass for green energy. Only if we get away from the consumption of fossil energy will we be able to stabilise our climate in the long term. And only then will it be possible to produce according to food. We should consider all of this, I mean. With this eco electricity law, we go a reasonable way. We evaluate the results we receive and take the next step due to these results. I believe that we need to deal with our overall resources, not only with fossils, but also with renewable energy, because renewable energy is renewable, but is not infinite. That is why we act as we do now, and I believe that this is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19940	Mr Marizzi is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e19962	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Ökostromgesetz and the ElWOG are being negotiated together, so a new definition was required in the ElWOG due to an insight of the Constitutional Court. Instead of ‘underlying networks’, the term ‘functional network’ is used as a new term, and we are happy to agree. If you follow the reports of the newspapers of recent times, you can say about the union that is led by a new Director-General, that he has made the jump into the Champions League. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian e-business – and above all the association; you only need to read the Annual Report – is a success story. The stock has grown by 18.5 percent in 2007. By 2015, €6.7 billion will be invested in Europe. The union is one of the most profitable companies in Europe and is ultimately the main profiter of Austrian water. It belongs to the Republic of Austria at 51 percent. Why do I say that? . I think all the discussions we have held in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy must go in the direction that we do not seek to sell out again. One hears the nightingale kicks that the union is to be sold again. – On the other hand, we are opposed to the SPÖ. The combination is to remain Austrian, and the Austrian water is also to remain Austrian! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pendl: Exactly!]] Because we are in favour of further expansion of Austrian hydropower, and so that we can say in retrospect, Austria has acted correctly in its vote against nuclear power – there is now again a huge renaissance of nuclear power in Europe – the next National Council should consider whether electricity from nuclear power is competitive at all, whether the conditions of competition are met at all. The next National Council should also deal with – including in this common Europe – whether we cannot jointly bring a competition complaint with regard to nuclear power as an Austrian National Council. In this sense, a warm happiness up!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20004	Mr Wenninger has now come to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20026	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! With today's amendment to the Electricity Economic and Organisation Law, we are in line with a statement by the Constitutional Court, which mounted conceptual inconsistencies. This sounds very technical and very legal, but in reality ensures the uniformity of the Austrian network tariff areas and also guarantees future tariff security for consumers and the economy. A discussion on the ElWOG also offers the opportunity to make brief comments on energy policy in Austria. On the one hand, we wanted to make possible cheaper electricity for the economy and consumers in Austria with the various versions of the ElWOG and with the liberalisation of electricity prices. Unfortunately, very little has arrived from the much praised price cuts by the liberalisations in the households. Secondly, Europe, as we know from the United States, is facing less security of supply. The orientation of the electricity companies, the energy multi towards record suspicious consolidated profits, is increasingly leading to the rescheduling of necessary investments in the expansion and maintenance of the energy networks. Third comment: I warn – as did my previous speaker, Mr Marizzi – of taking the current discussion on the dependence on oil and the climate protection debate as an excuse for accepting a renaissance of nuclear power. At present, 44 percent of Europeans support nuclear technology. dozens of new nuclear power plants are under construction. Austria's social democracy will discuss the extent to which European policy in connection with the EURATOM Treaty, with the European Economic and Social Committee, will be discussed in the new Europe-wide debate, which is now coming back in Austria. increased from nuclear energy and can make a new political offer for European citizens through the exit offers. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ calls for a Europe-wide exit from nuclear energy and a clear no to further take over Austrian energy producers by multinational nuclear groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20074	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall first vote on the motions for a resolution. With regard to the draft law in 643 of the Supplements, there is a referral request from Members Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for those members of the House who are in favour of it, the draft law concerning a federal law that amends the Ecostrom Act – 2. Ecostromgesetz-Novelle 2008 – in 643 of the supplements, to refer back to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs to mark a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. There is also a referral request from Members Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, regarding the draft law in 664 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those members of the House who are in favour of re-adopting the draft federal law, with which provisions in the field of combined heat and power are adopted – the CHP Act – in 644 of the Supplements, to refer back to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industry in order to give a signal. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft. Ecostromgesetz-Novelle 2008 in 643 of the supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Kopf, Mr Bauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Since only one request was made, I shall immediately vote on the draft law in 643 of the Supplements, together with the title and receipt in the version of the amendment tabled by Mr Kopf, Dr Bauer, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law at third reading to give their approval to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. – The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kopf, Dr Bauer, colleagues, on the implementation of a photovoltaic programme. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 83.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft Act on CHP and its title and receipt in 644 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I, in turn, expressly establish the two-thirds majority required by constitution. – The draft law was adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, together with the title and receipt in 645 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Once again, I expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. – The draft law was adopted at third reading. [[16:59:33]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on Amendment No 812/A by Mrs Reinhold Mitterlehner, Dkfm. Dr Hannes Bauer, Members and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Civil Engineering Chambers Act 1993 (646 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20249	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Themessl. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20280	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Instead of facilitating professional access for young architects, this coalition makes it possible to make this almost impossible. The Austrian entrance to the Chamber of Architects is unique and extremely restrictive in Europe. This is actually equal to domestic discrimination and is a distortion of competition which seeks to be the same. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you look at the individual points that change as a result of this novel in the Civil Engineering Chamber Act, and find out how it is impossible for young architects in Austria to make themselves independent, to practice this profession here, then I will try to bring it to you by means of a few figures. It is true that young civil engineers in Austria are in principle subject to provisions other than those laid down in the ASVG and also in the GSVG. This concerns both the contribution rate and the maximum contribution basis and, of course, the minimum contribution at the beginning, at the beginning. If you consider that the GSVG provides for a contribution rate of 15 percent, in which the Chamber of Architects has a contribution rate of 25 percent, with a maximum basis of nearly € 67 000, in the GSVG of just over € 48 000, you will understand why more and more young civil engineers are avoiding abroad. To give just a few examples: In Bavaria, the minimum contribution for a contribution rate of 15 percent in the first two years is € 852, in Austria the minimum contribution for beginners is € 1 973. In neighboring Italy, the minimum contribution rate for new entrants is €363, with us, as mentioned, €1 973. There is already a question of whether this planned change in contributions does not go at the expense of the younger generation, in line with the restructuring measures set out in the Constitutional Act. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we will have to expect that more and more young civil engineers will not become active in Austria, but will carry out their work from neighbouring abroad in Austria. I really want you to think about it, above all, also thinking about how the welfare institutions in the individual chambers – not only can be financed in the Chamber of Architects, but also in similar or otherwise stored chambers – in the future at all. Mr Bartenstein, you may recall this meeting of the Subcommittee: I asked you at the time if you could tell me how the money is being spent there. – Because if you only install these amounts of contributions “classically” conservativeally, then, I tell you, under the rule at least the double of that comes out when it is the case here. And then I'll ask myself, I wonder where the rest of it is, for example, if it “falls down” in the chambers, is it? – I’m excited about Your answer, which you promised me in writing. Given the fact that this federal government is before its resolution, I assume that you will no longer answer this question. – That’s a shame, but I’m going to get out of it elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20350	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20371	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The basis for the current legislative amendment is a recognition of the Constitutional Court of March 2007, which abolished the pension provisions of the Federal Chamber of Architects and Engineering Consuls, with which they had to be resolved within the period of one year. I do not understand the fears and concerns of the previous speaker, Mr Themessl, when he speaks of making access to the Chamber of Architects or the civil engineering profession as a whole difficult or impossible for young people. – The figures prove very well that young people are also cared for. Secondly, I note that there is also the possibility for this division to exercise this profession under commercial law – I have made myself independent with an engineering office. There are all sectors in this area, so we have been providing for a long time from the law! The fact that it prefers a certain circle to operate through the Civil Engineering Act has always been the case, for that there are also these welfare institutions such as pension insurance or the death insurance fund. – This change of law simply gave self-government, i.e. the chamber day, the right to make a pension adjustment and to carry out other parts of the business plan accordingly. I therefore believe that we are very much on the right track with this change and that there will also be young people who will opt for this profession. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20409	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20430	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The reason for my short debate is a little bit more basic: It is about that I feel it is urgently necessary for reform that a “free-trader chamber”, the Chamber of Architects and Civil Engineers, should not be subject to organisational supervision by the Ministry, where the social partners’ place of exercise – in this case the Chamber of Commerce – is located, especially as applicants for today’s legislative application, among other things, Dr. It looks like a mercenary. – This is the direct competition, namely the focus on the inconsistency of the liberalist concept, which is competitive with commercial law. The thing that my previous speaker, who works an engineering office himself, has been the subject of disputes for years. – It was a question of whether there is a level playing field or a difference in business taxation, with the claim that, on the basis of the claim to carry out coverage-like activities, engineering offices at the time would have had to pay or not to pay the commercial tax which is no longer existing. That is to say, I think – with a view to a certain state-reformatory perspective – that typical “free-traders’ chambers” have nothing to look for in a typical industrial and industrial structural element; I believe that the Federal Chancellery should at most be responsible for this. As an example, I would like to mention the so-called prudential right – in the form it exists only very theoretically – that the Federal Ministry of Justice exercises through the Notary Chamber and the Bar Association, which is inconceivable, because it is not an organisational element of the Republic which is typically not an organisational element of the trade law and social partner law. Anyway: The cleanliness is to separate what does not belong together, which is why you should break your head over it in the next legislative period. The other criticisms about today's legislative project have already been mentioned by my predecessor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20487	The next speaker is Mr Kirchgatter. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20509	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To the Civil Engineering Chamber Act: The revision is formally necessary, in time urgent and so desired and coordinated by the Federal Chamber of Architects and Engineering Consuls; I would like to stress that. This amendment was required by a recognition of the Constitutional Court, which has already been pointed out; a change in the content of the legal situation does not result from this constitutional way. In this context, however, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out the need for a change in public procurement culture. This concerns formally the Federal Award Act, but the members of the Federal Chamber of Architects and Engineering Consuls. The two principles of awarding, the low-cost bidder principle and the best bidder principle are not equal to each other in current practice: Often only after the price is decided; this does not seem to be bad at surface, but it entails serious disadvantages. For example, when planning traffic nodes, it must not be possible to save road safety. The price pressure should not result in only a good and not the best solution and a lack of innovation considerations. Also expensive supplements for previously unthinked additions can be the result of minimal planning. – A longer planning phase can save a lot of money on construction; There are enough examples of this. I would like to conclude by saying that this professional group enjoys a very, very good reputation – also internationally! – which significantly contributes to the very frequent activity of the Austrian construction and construction industry abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20554	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20575	Mr President. Federal Minister! One can certainly follow the thoughts of my previous speaker, the question marks of the colleagues of the FPÖ Group are also well justified, only: At the heart of what we have to decide here and now, I think it is just about legal upgrading, according to the findings of the Constitutional Court. Of course, we are of course at our disposal; otherwise, I do not want to say much more about this. – That is why our voting behaviour is justified. However, to address the previous speaker, I must say: If we were to force the best bidder principle more strongly, of course many would do much easier, I would sign it, but because it is also about pension schemes and the matter of insurance policy should be stressed more strongly after this realization, then in fact the question arises of how the money from these payments is even peddled there. – I don’t know exactly what I’m saying about it, but one thing is clear to me: that there is a risk that the cash registers of different kinds are becoming increasingly and, so to speak, more and more addictive to the private, which may involve risks, which is also associated with fluctuations in the behaviour. But it's much worse now, when you turn it over to the larger unit – and with that I'm removing myself from the legislative proposal, that's clear – that pension systems are increasingly being converted: It is increasingly outsourced to the famous second pillar. I think that this is bad when it ends with cords there that more and more need to rely on the capital market funds, as far as their final pension level is concerned. From my point of view, there is still a great deal of failure if we are to be more responsive to the payment procedure in this regard and thus produce a certain basic guarantee of solidarity for old age, which is also at a quite reasonable level. – This should be the principle, and not as much as possible flattened as possible, and then those who can still afford it should take private care. We know exactly where this is going! Who wants to go! The stories should be told in the election campaign. We stand for the more sensible and just principle of charging. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20613	Mr Bartenstein spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20636	Mr President. High house! Mr Themessl's criticism of the fact that answers had not yet been received from him: This can only be a loss on the post, for the answer is on 26 May. In June 2008, honourable Member, she went to the Parliamentary Directorate, so she should have arrived with you in the meantime. Secondly, the level of contribution you criticised – you have also brought some comparisons with neighbouring countries – is as follows: There is no change here, and it is important for me to say that these are autonomous decisions of the respective chamber day, in other words, no political contributions. On the claims made, i.e. on the subject or content of your request and on its reply: The performance of welfare institutions' financial statements was around 2 per cent in the calendar year, corresponding to the average result of pension funds. The expenditure on pension contributions is 20 per cent in real estate, 16 per cent in shares and 64 per cent in bonds. – This answer, as I said, should in fact already be in your mailbox. Finally, Mr Kogler: There is a strong contradiction, for my part, to the formulation you have found, for economic and other reasons, you think it should go back to the system of payment. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Well, I've already been able to do something!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: For reasons of justice!]] – You also quoted the economy. That doesn't matter: justice and economics. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, both!]] Professor Rürup, who at the time, in the 1990s, was commissioned by Mrs. Social Minister Hostasch with a comprehensive study, has stated as one of his key criticisms on our pension system that at that time 90 percent of the payment system was handled through the ASVG. Professor Rürup has ruled out that it is desirable – he has also said that it is not possible at all – to convert this payment system into a capitalised one, only because it would require a generation to provide for two generations – for the previous and for one's own; so unthinkable! – but he has certainly expressed the recommendation to go more closely also in instruments of capital-covered provision. That's exactly what we've done in the meantime, we've made very successful provision for employees for all, redundancies new, private pension provision and also pension funds. [[Abg. Oils: Successful?- Oh, my God!]] 3.5 million Austria saves directly and indirectly already capitalised forms of pension and pension provision. This is a useful addition, to some extent the butter on the bread; the bread remains the ASVG-pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20724	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Schalle. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20745	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! On the request of Mr Dr. In the case of a German law relating to the civil engineering law, the Council of Ministers of the European Communities, the Council of Ministers of the European Communities and the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the is amended as follows: This is a repair of the Civil Engineering Chamber Act following a VfGH knowledge: The Constitutional Court has repealed the provisions of the Statute of the Welfare Agency to adapt the pension increase. The purpose of this amendment is to allow the Board of Boards to provide for a lower adjustment of the Member's contributions, on the basis of a recommendation from the Board of Directors and taking into account the principles of the subject matter of insurance, than would be an increase in the maximum contribution base; however, at least the increase of the contribution is to be made in accordance with the benchmark for the increase in pension under the ASVG. There is obviously one of the few pension funds that have enough money, which is characterized by the fact that all civil technicians actually work for a long time. As far as the financial investments are concerned, Mr Minister, one should already think, because if only 20 percent are invested in real estate and 80 percent in shares and funds, that is, in my view, relatively speculative. So you should think about whether you can't even pay for it. That's it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20784	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 646 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:21:15]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (591 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Law on Working Time and the Labour Peace Act (619 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20840	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Sieber. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20870	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! As I come here from Vorarlberg most often by rail, the implementation of the EC Directive on cross-border rail staff and on-board staff has made me quite interested. ==References== The present amendment to the law on working time and the law on working time is necessary, as an EC directive on the working time of cross-border train crews from Member States to 27. ==References====External links== Annex III shall enter into force on 1 July 2008. This amendment, which includes the limitation of working hours and the guarantee of minimum rest periods for train and board staff, is expressly welcome, as it serves the safety of passengers and is therefore consumer protection policy in the interests of travellers. This largely uniform system not only provides a higher level of protection, it is also easier to implement. The criticism of the lack of a legal obligation to record the actual time spent by the drivers is in every respect unauthorised. The amendments adopted were exclusively about the implementation of the EU Directive on the working time of cross-border train staff, which was complete and correct. The Directive does not impose any obligation to record the actual journey time, which is why there is no need for action. In terms of safety, rail transport cannot be put into a pot with road transport. The entire rail transport is scheduled for scheduled scheduled line traffic, and the driving time of the drivers has always been planned, together with the staff representation, in detailed timetables. Ladies and gentlemen! This directive is indeed an improvement and is therefore expressly welcomed by our side.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20912	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20934	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! As my previous speaker has already said, this part of our discussions today is a government template on the law on working time and working time, and it implements the provisions of the European Union, on the one hand, as regards provisions of cross-border train staff and on-board staff. As far as the train crew is concerned, improvements in the setting of minimum daily and weekly rest periods are being made, in particular for cross-border train staff, improvement of the breaks and uniform driving times. However, I cannot support what my previous speaker said in connection with recording actual driving times. My colleague, Mr Haberzettl, will certainly give an even more detailed opinion on this. I believe that this has missed an important opportunity to apply the provisions of road transport here as well. It would undoubtedly have been possible to increase the safety and protection of workers and, above all, better provisions for workers. A few comments on the crew: The provisions are to be welcomed because, on the one hand, it also ensures that work is organized according to a particular rhythm adapted to workers and that annual working hours are to be distributed as evenly throughout the year. Regrettably, the improvements do not apply to helicopter pilots, nor to flight operations with a pilot, nor to the field of medical emergency use. Ladies and gentlemen! The present government proposal is to be welcomed, but allow me to make one final comment: Today, we have welcomed the fact that the number of unemployed has fallen in Austria. This is gratifying, but less gratifying is the situation of those who are older, thus older unemployed. Unfortunately, the number of unemployed has not dropped as much as we wanted. Unfortunately, it was also true that many positive measures, which have in particular been proposed by the social partners, such as the improvement of part-time work or health measures to give people the opportunity to be healthy in the workplace, could no longer be implemented. I very much regret this and hope that the situation of older workers in Austria will improve.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20973	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e20994	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are amending the law on working time and rest for the introduction of European minimum standards. My colleagues have already explained what this is all about. We welcome this amendment in principle, but the presentation has an essential manco, a gap; Mrs Csörgits has already referred to her. In other words, we regulate the working time, driving times, rest breaks and rest periods – so far, so good – for drivers and drivers, but then, when it comes to controlling the corresponding limitation, you only see in § 18k the recording and storage of working time. Mr Sieber, I simply cannot understand your argument: Please, how should we, as legislators or also the labour inspectorate, control, for example, what is provided for in § 18i? – It says that after nine hours of actual driving time a rest period has to take place. But how should this be checked if travel time is not recorded as a category of your own? The trade union has also recognised this problem and has urgently suggested changes to it. Then: If this does not happen that actual driving times are recorded, then it is not possible to check whether the restrictions we have set here today are also respected. It is not to be ruled out that locusts and locusts are overly tired of serving, and it is also not to be excluded that they are harming themselves and their surroundings. Mr Minister, why have you not been prepared and not prepared, or are you still not prepared to supplement this? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Because the social partners did not and did not agree!]] – Well, but you also have a certain role in this matter, I think. I don't know, do you somehow withdraw from the social partners? – That would surprise me because of your personality. Why don't you want this and not get inside? Do you then take responsibility for what the consequences of this matter are? Do you take responsibility for accidents, for property damage, possibly for injuries or worst of all deaths that may occur when overtired locusts do unconcentrated service? – I do not assume that you will take responsibility, but are then held responsible for the drivers, who in the worst case also have to expect a process and then cannot even prove that they may already be doing much too long service, because there is no record of their actual driving times. I find this situation unacceptable and believe that we are very likely to have the responsibility here. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So we really want to have the driving time with it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Haberzettl, I am already curious about your speech. Now there is, as it were, the coalition-free time, now there is the time window, and I am already very excited about how the vote will look. I hope there isn't another subjective spirit to the ÖVP, and I hope it's about the safety of the drivers and drivers and many other victims. We have decided – you now have the choice. We have opted for safety, for the protection of workers and also for the protection of other people concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21056	The amendment tabled by Mrs Schatz is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21110	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21132	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am curious about how the trade union will now act in the form of SPÖ mandates on this amendment. But I might want to start at the beginning: We are not discussing today for the first time, and probably even if the trend is going to continue this way, not for the last time – today, in the form of the Working Time and Labour Peace Act – about the implementation of EU directives. That is, we are basically discussing something that we are given and where we have very, very little manoeuvring mass. We are obliged to understand these things, and this also shows where the European journey is going. I think it is not a great secret – at least we liberals see it this way – that in the overwhelming majority of these cases there is nothing good for us from Brussels. But I already admit that in the present case, when it comes to on-board staff and train staff, this may be a little different. We will then also give this request in accordance with our consent, because one cannot deny that mobility is, as it were, one of the essential, if not perhaps the essential factor of a modern society. It defines itself in a way, in a sense, by means of mobility. This applies to the economic sector. and for the private sector as well. We have basically been dealing with a constant increase here, unless we have to say this again and again, that the spray prices are going to explode and mobility may in the future become something like the luxury of a few less. It makes sense, of course, to introduce uniform rules for air transport, for rail transport, where it goes beyond national borders. That's not a question. This should not be closed, especially if it increases the safety of the staff and, of course, the safety of the persons to be transported, of the passengers. I do not need to go further into the details, but I am pleased about this amendment because it is a criticism which is quite legitimate. What I can't quite understand is that Mr Haberzettl and others now stand out, although it is right in the matter. If one does not at the same time suffer from a short-term memory, then one must know that only a few weeks and months ago one adopted quite different packages in this House on the subject of working time. That's what's so to speak under this collective concept – I know you can't say it, but I'm saying it anyway – to sum up hypocrisy, because otherwise you can't actually understand it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I understand that you practice criticism, but I don't understand how you practice it, because you should have practice it earlier if you take it seriously, what you are saying in this area. You just need to look at what you've decided to do in times when – and that's not so long ago – you've been passing through this house at the nasal ring of the ÖVP. And then we'll see if you've at least partially freed yourself from this nose ring. I think there are doubts here, too, as we have seen with other materials today. But you have basically contributed something that means nothing but to make people a tool of economic interest through the Brussels detour. The value of man is reduced down to his flexibility, to his employability, to his employability on the labour market. This is what is behind all these flexibilization packages, and it is particularly cynical when you first act as if this was a need for workers – although they have exactly the opposite need, because they say: If I don't make money for my work, I want at least time! – and if one pretends, second, that what comes from Brussels with your support would be a social achievement. I am afraid and afraid, even if I take seriously what you have done now as an extension of the social competences of the European Union, you have, in fact, tried to sell us in the past as great social achievements. That's a cynical approach. This is almost as cynical as something I have found today, a brilliant contribution by the SPÖ to the fight against the pressures: It is funny to say that, in a post-cast in the Burgenland from the SPÖ side next to a tasty recipe for meat strudel, I think, and similar domestic food have provided a tip to combat the wave of inflation, which is obviously intended to compensate for your political inability in this area. There's all serious inside. If you do not counter the temptations in the supermarket, can stand and if everything has become more expensive, please do not go shopping with an empty stomach. And if you do, you will be less victims of the wave of torment. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, this is a similar cynicism that you show here. So you will not get out of the miser, into which you have been manoeuvring yourself in the last few weeks – at the nostrils of the ÖVP, as already said.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21210	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21231	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! This government template is one for higher workers' protection and for easier monitoring of minimum rest periods and the suspension of flight staff, train staff and on-board staff. We will also vote in favour of this bill because we welcome the creation of appropriate standards here. I believe that the Green amendment is also a positive step forward, that mandatory records should also be made about actual driving times. We will also support this request. I also think that it is necessary – and I asked the Committee the last time – to question the extent to which the regulation for helicopter pilots, for flight operations with only one pilot and for medical emergencies is to be applied. I have now read in the parliamentary protocol. Mr. Federal Minister, you told me that's covered by the law. Now I've heard the criticism again that it's supposed to be not recorded. Maybe you can give us another reconnaissance here. I assume that what you have said in the Committee is true and I do not wish to put this as a criticism, but I believe that there is a need for a regulation. Overall, I think it is a good template that you can agree with with good conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21268	Mr Bartenstein spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21289	Ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, maintain my information to the Committee, which I have given to the best of my knowledge and conscience. We will then still try to clarify the necessary differentiation directly, as that looks like with the helicopter pilots, simply occupied, double occupied – we will return to it. Very soon: Mr President. High house! I cannot understand the criticism, which is expressed differently, even in plenary. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is not about the fact that working hours are not recorded at all, but they have been recorded so far and will also be recorded in the future. It is a question of recording the planned journey time in addition to that. Here the employee side – but only in Austria – wanted to record the actual journey time. From my point of view, however, social partners agree not to be split or tolerable at any time. At European level, there was a social partners agreement on this issue, and in Austria there was no such agreement, nor does the directive provide for it. I do not share the security concerns expressed by Mrs van der Schatter for the reasons set out above. The working time will continue to be recorded as such, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. As regards the criticism of Mr Csörgits, the package for older workers, I would like to say that: The negotiation process is under way here, but there is now a proposal that does not see the consensus of both sides of the social partners. On the one hand, in the case of part-time age, I am allowed to refer to the costs and on the other hand, to what causes massive discussions in Germany on early retirement. I also refer to Mr. Dr. Buchinger – not the Minister of Social Affairs, but the Managing Director of the AMS – saw this as a risk to Austria in an interview these days. There's still a need for fine-tuning, and we're still working on it. As regards the general criticism of Mr Kickl on the development of the flexibility of working hours in Austria, I do not understand them at all. This was a finely tuned socio-partner consensus – in the sense that flexibility in terms of working time benefits workers and employers. This has been brought here by me to the government and to the High House and has been approved for a long time. I add: There is still a lot of collective contract supplementation. Some of the possibilities offered by the new law – the new flexibility – are not yet fully understood in the collective agreements or, if you want to, these flexibilitys have not yet been exploited. But the claim that it would be a detour over Brussels is completely wrong. This has nothing to do with European working time legislation but was an autonomous Austrian social partners' decision, which I still very much welcome. I think it is groundbreaking and groundbreaking, it is in the interests of workers and employers. And this is excellent, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21346	Mrs Eder-Gitschthaler spoke. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21368	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! We are discussing the changes to the law on working time and the law on working time. Mr Kickl, I find it a little difficult to follow your further remarks. They are talking about the "Nasenring" – we are not in the Committee on Agriculture. They are talking about a tool for economic interests and, of course, bets against the EU. In this respect, you don't mind. I think it's funny that when we deal with a subject, you always come back to your original themes. But basically this is something else, as my previous speakers have already said: It is about adapting the existing law on working time and working time to the new EU directive for people working cross-border, namely in rail and air transport. I welcome this and, as the Federal Minister has already said, there was a social partners' agreement. I think my follow-up speaker, Mr Haberzettl, is such a strong trade unionist that he will make all possible changes and additions well. [[Abg. Riepl: You're right!]] I'm very good things we're gonna find the way out. As far as rail is concerned – this is also one of my favorite topics, because I am a railway client myself – I am sure that this uniform regulation in this area has not overregulated the administrative sector. I think it is important to create the best conditions here for the rail to remain a safe mode of transport, for passenger and freight transport. I think that the workers there find a good working environment and are satisfied. I can therefore only ask you to agree to this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21404	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Haberzettl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21426	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! It's been said a lot. I believe that essential elements of this implementation of the 2005 EU directive are, in fact, rules for cross-border staffing. This is a challenge for the trade union movement, but one that must be mastered in cooperation with reasonable political accompanying measures – also in the sense of the colleagues employed there. We have here created special regulations in the Working Time Act, which are necessary and reasonable. We have set daily and weekly rest periods in the cross-border area, which are reasonable and important. We have defined uniform breaks for uniform maximum driving times, which are important and correct. We've set retention periods. Only one thing we didn't do: We didn't create a record for steering times. This is the great lack of this provision, because this leads to all the good things I mentioned earlier being ad absurdum. I think it's easy to say: We have record obligations of working time, but the steering time is a different time than working time. It is theoretically possible to work 15 hours, only you can guide only 9 hours in these 15 hours. – This is right because it is, of course, a very crucial question of security. That means: Now, by rejecting this regulation by the EIA, it is a question of security as to how cross-border rail transport is being carried. You've taken on this responsibility with today's day. [[Abg. Oillinger: You too?]] In conclusion, Mrs Schatz: It's relatively simple. We will pursue the following objective at union level in cooperation or in negotiations with the Chamber of Commerce: Working time is driving time. This will be done, but costs a lot of money. Mr Mitterlehner will also make this known in the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21460	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 591 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore begin by voting on the part of the draft law concerned by this amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government document. Deputies Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment concerning § 18k in Article I(5), and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. I shall be voting on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those Members of the House who have given their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:48:54]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (588, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Hospital Working Time Act (620 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21537	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Oberhauser is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21567	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! The Hospital Working Time Act now has a history of development for ten years now. Looking back on the period before 1997, we know that working hours in public hospitals have not been regulated at all. In the private sector, workers were subject to the Working Time Act. In the public sector – in other words, in all hospitals belonging to the federal government, the countries and the municipalities – working hours of up to 77 or 80 hours were absolutely no rarity, mostly from Friday to someday noon. I started my turn at the time. For me it was unimaginable to have less than eight, nine, or ten night shifts. At the beginning, we felt rather gone by the fact that in our working time we somehow wanted to limit ourselves. However, with the entry into force of the Hospital Working Time Act, it has been noted that it is clearly more pleasant if you do not have to work for so long, there are regulated rest breaks and the service provider is encouraged to take more people into employment. Then it is no longer necessary for two, three or four doctors to divide a round-the-clock supply. - That was 1997. The Hospital Working Time Act was then slightly updated, but there were gaps. These gaps, which we are dealing with today's closure, have been very, very long a nuisance – for the trade unions and for the doctor's chamber. What were these gaps? In the public sector, that is, in the field of the CV, it was quite common for the working hours of colleagues to be recorded. Every time every single person has been documented and reported to the labour inspector. But there were also a lot of houses where there were no working time records at all. That is, one has drawn back to a law gap that said: Penalties exist in the case of record for each individual case of unexplainable violation. – If you didn't have any records at all, it was clear that you would be punished for only one. That is, very, very many houses or carriers have decided to say: There has been much failure if we do not have any working time records at all; if we are caught by the labour inspector, we are paying a penalty. A second gap was that there was no possibility of sanctioning the labour inspectorate in the field of public services. Although we got everything that happened at the Medical University of Vienna, there was actually no way to sanction it. For example, in the field of anesthesia, it was not rare for colleagues there to work over 100 hours a week, and a lot of people were missing. Now you're trying to get back to the rector. To what extent this makes sense, we will see. To close this gap – i.e. to try to penalise public sector as well – has succeeded over a back door, that is, on the question of leaving the labour force. Very, very many countries and municipalities are service providers but have their hospitals in operating companies; Thus, operating companies operate hospitals. It is now possible to introduce sanctions as a result of the novice we decide on today. So once again a gap we had was closed. One thing – something that has already been going and going on in the area of the city of Vienna since 1997 –: It was true that the Hospital Working Time Act did not apply in the field of nursing homes. Now it is true that many of the colleagues – we know this partly from the nursing staff – had extreme difficulties with eight-hour services. This means that colleagues prefer to have longer services, but also longer breaks. However, this was not possible in the context of nursing homes. This too will be extended and is a progress that has come with this new law. However, what threatens a little – if I may allow myself to look into the next few years – is the question of the European Working Time Directive. If we look at a decision made by the European Social Ministers last month, we are facing a lot of deterioration. I mean the question of individual opt-out. That was actually a separate arrangement for England. It was planned and demanded by the trade unions to abolish it; instead, it will be extended. There are also much longer throughput times – so there are a lot that threatens us. The Austrian Social Minister was not one of the country representatives who rejected or abstained from the vote. Austria has agreed. In the next legislative period, it will therefore be necessary to continue to ensure that the working time system we are now improving is not deteriorated by a European directive and the adoption into Austrian legislation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21648	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21670	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was quite interesting what Mr Oberhauser has now said. If you have listened, you can get really bad in view of what has been happening to Austrian hospitals until a very short time ago – this debate we have also held in the Committee – with the approval of those concerned of impossible working time regulations. I also understand very well what Mr Oberhauser has already said in the committee, namely that colleagues – that was said here too – did not want to have it any different. They took time to understand that the better regulations are good for them. Mrs Oberhauser, I am very grateful to you for referring to a point, namely the Working Time Directive – I mean the European in general – where – this is the only correction I want to make – it was not the Social Minister – I hope at least – but the Minister of Labour who sits behind me. One thing to be said to you, Minister of State Bartenstein: From our There is not only a yes to this draft of the European Working Time Directive, but a definite no. We hope that the European Parliament will have the power and influence to stop, change and make work on this Working Time Directive, which is in some way in line with our conceptions of working time regulations. It is absurd that we are still discussing improvements in this debate – as was the previous point – which are based on European law, but in which future, if we go to Federal Minister Bartenstein, there may be changes through European law or directives that no longer mean progress to those concerned. The term “advantage” can also be interpreted differently. This is primarily the protection of those concerned, their interest and their need to avoid excessive damage to their health through work. Now I come back to a small point, which is also contained in this draft. Mrs Oberhauser, yes, it is true that there are many improvements in this area. It also contains points – you have so elegantly striped them – which we already see as a possibility for deterioration. I mean, the fact that in the hospital facilities, for example in senior homes, the hospital law should now apply to the hospital working time law. I understand that your argument was that, for these institutions, the better, more flexible law on working time will be made possible. But we're back at the point where I'm saying: It cannot be thought that working time regulations are desirable, which actually go to the limit of what is still tolerable for people in physical and psychological strains. That's the point. The Hospital Working Time Act was in principle always much more liberal, according to the ideas of Mr Bartenstein, not according to ours. It was increasingly generous in terms of working time possibilities. I do not believe, therefore, that the request for a separate vote has been made by us, that a real progress will be made if a part of a retirement home is guided by working time legislation which, compared with the other persons concerned in this institution, means that there is a bad situation for those concerned, even though they may not yet see it that way.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21736	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21757	Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! This new law was long overdue. We are talking here about medical personnel, i.e. people who are not only responsible for themselves but also for other responsibilities. That is why it is truly welcome that this change of law is now coming. My hope is that it will really be maintained, no matter what in Europe, what will eventually be decided in European working time directives. I think we created something here once, which is good. But I also believe – but it is not just the responsibility of policy to create it – that we have to create provisions that are good for employees. What we really need is also a training offensive. We will need such a one, because it cannot be the case that we create regulations on working time, but ultimately we are missing staff everywhere. That's something that's really important. In order to relieve people in the health sector, who are very often already reaching their personal limits, and to be able to distribute this burden on multiple shoulders, we need more staff. But we can not only say that we have to take up staff, but we have to train them first. I believe that this is a very large area of responsibility for us. So I'm really asking you to look at it. In the sense of a training campaign, a first very important step would be to abolish access restrictions, for example when studying medicine, and to allow for real free access, but of course also to enable increased training in all other medical professions, in order to be able to say: We have enough staff to carry out these working time limits.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21797	Mrs Haubner's next speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21818	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! With the present Hospital Working Time Act, I believe, something has been successful, which unfortunately has not succeeded in the health reform, because one has sought and found a solution by involving those affected by the matter. Mrs Oberhauser spoke about the closing of gaps. I think that is also the right expression for the fact that there is now a better enforceability of statutory working time regulations for hospital doctors. I mean, in general, it is positive that control and penalties are also possible for distributed holding companies in the future, and that mandatory working time records can be used separately for each employee in case of infringements. We also discussed the question very intensively in the Committee: Why should stationary care facilities be included? because there has also been criticism of the representation of interests and the Chamber of Labour in this context. I myself then made myself a little smart and also spoke to those concerned and can say that it is basically the case that those in the care facilities of the countries that are concerned are generally positive – even if I do not understand that they are taking the second step before the first step, because there is no general, statutory working time regulation in the various institutions. We will give this amendment, this proposal, our approval, especially because, I believe, it is a good compromise and because those who are concerned are behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21855	Mr Bartenstein spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21877	Mr President. High house! An excellent argument: If those concerned are behind a template, then the probability that it is the right way is quite large. Mrs Oberhauser, I have been able to and can assist you over long distances in your speech. They have correctly addressed the existing gaps, the two gaps being closed. They have also raised the issue of the inclusion of nursing homes in the right way and, in my opinion, that – and Mrs Haubner has just welcomed this. I do not consider the example of the Vienna University Clinic to be anaesthesiology, because there is no obvious gap there because the labour inspectorate could and had to punish there. It was no different. In the first instance – that has been media-public, so I can say – fines of well over €200 000 have been imposed against the rector. The gaps that exist elsewhere in the classically distributed hospital societies are obviously not such at the university clinic. But be it. The little confusion with the Minister of Social Affairs has already been clarified and I hope he will give me a little credit. But I'm also in favour, well, knowing that Mr Buchinger with this consent of Austria in retrospect and ex post had no pleasure. Ex ante and when it came to voting the Austrian position on the European Working Time Directive, the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Social Affairs and my department not only represented the same line over days, but over years – this has been in discussion for years. I was not really pleased that this then looked a little different in retrospect, especially that the President of the Trade Union Confederation, but also the Minister of Social Affairs, once again very, very critical and critical, was responsible for the fact that, as a member of the government, government positions should be represented even if not even as opportunistic as regards reporting, even in small format newspapers the next day. Ladies and gentlemen, what now threatens your interpretation of any deterioration is quite different from yours. I have already expressly said – and the Federal Chancellor has also expressed himself in a Council of Ministers meeting in this sense –: If we want this European Union – a key word – to become a social union, i.e. to be more closely regulated at European level, this will, of course, have to be done almost always, or at all, on the basis of minimum standards – minimum standards. These are usually also standards that we far exceed. No human being in the world, neither in Brussels nor elsewhere, will and can force us to go down to this level of minimum standards. We won't do that either. So there's no threat of deterioration here. I made this clear. There is no need to change this directive on working time, which says that it has once been accepted in the circle of ministers, because the European Parliament still has a different view in this regard. Dear Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser, but I'm telling you what Austria's respectful Austrian hospitals and their carriers – almost always the countries – are threatening: If this directive does not go through as it is now decided in the EU Council of Ministers, SiMAP/Jaeger applies, then the case law of the European Court of Justice applies, then call is not only partially, as actually worked, but as a whole, to count on working time, and then we can forget the time frame as we have it in this hospital working time law. Then it not only needs very, very many doctors in Austrian hospitals, but also very, very much money from the countries. We should consider this very well in this regard. I believe that the current framework, especially when it is observed, and even if it can be successfully sanctioned by the labour inspectorate, if it is not observed, is a more reasonable and good one and so seen a good step in the right direction. But as long as this topic is: Working time directive Calling for work time, accounting for working time, which has not happened in toto, as well as at the parliamentary level, this question is still a little open.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21932	Mr Rasinger spoke next. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21953	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! High house! There are American studies which show quite clearly: The harder and longer you're in the hospital, the higher your error rate. The same study was conducted at the Steyr Hospital. While long working hours promote the experience of a doctor, while reducing the risk of handover if you play silent post, if you surrender the station – there is also a greater frequency of error –, but the last bite the dogs, and I do not want to be the last one to be treated by an unrested doctor. That's so simple. Therefore, the law is there not only for the protection of staff but also for the protection of patients. And that's reasonable. We must not forget one thing: These heroes, as is required in America, are 80 hours and more in the hospital, 14 days of vacation, so these heroic stories should belong to the past, because medicine is female. Far more than half of those working in the hospital are women, and these should be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e21990	The next item is Mr Riepl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22011	Mr President. High house! Mr Rasinger, we fully agree on this: I also do not want to be treated by a doctor who is overly tired. But this also applies to all professional groups working in some way in transport, in the field of the subject that we have discussed before, such as as a locust and the like. I think you should hold it. Mr. Federal Minister, the EU Working Time Directive... – Where is the Minister? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein talks with Dr. Oberhauser and Csörgits in the SPÖ ranks.]] [[Call the SPÖ: With us!]] – There he is, on the SPÖ side, not bad, once a new picture. For orientation, I suppose, don't I? [[Abg. Neugebauer: He was good!]] Mr Federal Minister, I think the last word will have the European Parliament at the EU Working Time Directive anyway. I am very confident that correct decisions will be made. We are now talking about working time regulations in the field of hospitals, and I think it is equally important to regulate working time, as well as to regulate wages in a company or in a farm. It is about the duration, the length of the working time, the overtime, the allowed overtime, and above all – and this, I think, is also very clear in this novelle – about the question: Can I control? How can I control? And should we be controlled? The aim is, among other things, to ensure with this novel that records are kept about the actual ones – I emphasize: the actual ones! – working hours in hospitals, so that appropriate control is actually possible. The reform, as has already been said, is based on an agreement between the social partners and is now to be implemented in this area. I think, on this occasion, one should also point out that the experiences we have with working time issues in other professions, but also in the nursing professions, are such that one feels that not every hour that is actually being worked on is ultimately paid. I know from the advisory work in particular of the Chambers of Workers that most complaints go in the following direction: I have to come earlier, I can't leave until later, but I don't get everything paid! It is therefore important that each individual actual working time should be documented and that each individual crossing of working time limits is also punished – § 12 paragraph 1a regulates that in the template. In the absence of records, this must not lead to the loss of claims. It is therefore also important that it is now contained in this novel that the inhibition of expiry periods occurs when records are not available and therefore one does not, or perhaps only later, insist that excesses are in place. It seems to me that inhibiting expiry periods seems to me to be an important point for improving the situation by labour law. Overall: With this innovation, which has already been said, we are improving the enforceability of working time rules in this area. I think that's why you can agree with the good conscience of this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22064	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22085	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Let me remind you very briefly of how this law on working time came about with regard to hospitals. I still remember that at the beginning of the 1990s, a Fessel Institute survey at the Uni-Kliniken Innsbruck carried out working hours in the surgical subjects of over 110 hours, in the conservative subjects to the 70 to 80 hours on average. At the time, this triggered a huge media vortex. I had an interview with Oberhauser, which was then encouraged by the Hospital Directorate to take them to Vienna for a press conference at the Concordia Press Club and withdraw all my statements. I have refused to take this trip to God. Then it took four to five years for a working time law to be negotiated. I was invited by Hesoun, the then Minister – I was not a party member with the Greens or any other party – ad personam to negotiate. Four to five years later, this was ended under Hostash, with massive, good and active help from the then Social Ministry, the then section shef and its officials. The tragedy, however, was that negotiators came under massive pressure because the resistance of the countries and hospitals was massive for financial reasons. Whole countries have declared themselves closed to establish transitional arrangements of years in the law, they said they could not find doctors as soon as possible, all this is not going on. All of this was not incredibly credible, and yet, after the law had intervened in some way, until a few years ago – and this has been an investigation by Hostash, I think, later also by Bartenstein – in more than half of the hospitals of this law did not find a complete implementation. Such a thing would be unthinkable for other professional groups. For example, with long-distance drivers, pilots and captains, if you want to, but there is not so much in Austria, you would have said: The not only the working people, but also those entrusted to them! Slowly one starts to control more closely here. – I say something now, and the ministry has to offer something: In the university area, wherever the pressure has come, one cannot close it, because the budgets are so tight, not a few labour inspectors and labour inspectors have been asked relatively rough or very salopp not to control them so sharply and not to tear up the eyes because this could have massive consequences for the country and the federal government. People were, I think, courageous in general, but such a thing must not happen! The law is essentially good, it is stricter sanctions. One can go from administrative to civil law possibilities. In the field of nursing homes, of course, I already see problems that there can be some extensions as in hospitals. Especially the use of old and in need of care is not only physical, but also psychologically very consuming. It is really the question whether the quality, even the quality of morality and the use to these clients is not put on a hard test here. One will really have to support these professions and take care of time off and others. On what Bartenstein mentioned with EU directives: I know there's something in the bush, and please consider: If you no longer count waiting times in journal services or in night shifts as working hours, you should consider what happens to a post desk official or employee – and that's why I'm looking for you. And that's... Does he get paid only if someone gives up a letter? Is the fire brigade paid only if it burns, but not if it's ready? This waiting period then interrupts working time, of course the working hours are to be prolonged, quite simply, because this is de facto regarded as a rest period and is at least neutral. That's what you should look at! Nevertheless: Generally speaking, with some weaknesses, this is progress, but it should not be the last step into a better and social future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22143	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22165	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Of course, each of us wants the best care, and this law should also provide the possibility. Secondly, I think that the work is not in every department, in every facility equally heavy and equally difficult. The problem is mostly extreme. These things will also be presented if there are, in fact, overloads when people are unable to act but still have to perform the highest performance. When amending this Working Time Act, the priority is to improve the enforceability of working time regulations, which is special, in all institutions. It is explicitly stated in the law that infringements of the record obligations with regard to each individual employee are to be punished separately if the absence of records makes it impossible or unreasonable to determine the actual working time actually performed. We know from practice that this involvement was carried out at the request of the professional group, even though many staff have repeatedly spoken out for longer working hours on a case-by-case basis. This shows again, as mentioned at the outset, the difference in the load. The Federal Minister has made it very clear here that working hours in the dispensed hospitals are also monitored, but above all it becomes more expensive, that must be clear to us. This is a new challenge, but quality costs money. And if we want good care, each and every one of us, then we also need to do our obulus for it, and we can not only talk about it every day, that everything has become expensive, but we must also be prepared to make money available from other areas of life especially for this important area.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22204	Mrs Grander's next speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22225	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll report on the practice. I implemented the last hospital working time law as a care director myself. We've implemented it in hospitals. There have also been dedicated timetables in the medical profession, which are still available today as in the caregivers, where there have always been these timetables. It takes organisational changes, it takes work-flow changes – and, of course, it also needs a revision of the job schedules and other service times, or you have to calculate whether there is any change or whether more staff is needed. We have found – I am particularly interested in care now – just a mix where eight hours, twelve hours throughout, are just mixed again in the care of the people. Indeed, one should make a group care that people are cared for by the same person over the day. The group leaders then partly also did twelve hours, so they got in at eight. There you can be very creative with the station lines, i.e. with the middle management and also from the care management, as you develop it – in the context of the law, you have to say. At the time, the nursing homes have always asked us the question of why they are not involved, the desire from there was very strong. These parallels are also experienced in other areas, in terms of remuneration and service times, again and again, because the work processes and organizational structures in the nursing homes are also relatively similar to those in a hospital. The acute hospital has a different priority than the nursing home, but in principle one can equalize work organisation and organisational structure. There have been some adjustments in the federal states. Today's decision is that at last working hours will also be monitored in distributed hospitals. In this regard, we have been repeatedly controlled by the Labour Inspectorate in both the care and the doctors in the hospitals. More stringent sanctions in the event of violations, there is also a need to rethink staff that certain overtimes are no longer possible. And especially... It is important that the care facilities are also included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22271	Mrs Mikesch's next speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22292	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Let me say one thing in advance: If we are pleased that we have one of the best health systems in the world, then surely a great deal of thanks to the doctors employed in our hospitals, who, with their excellent work, contribute a substantial part to our health care. With the Hospital Employment Act, the rules on compliance with and enforceability of working time in the hospital are made more tangible. Infringements can be committed in future per employee, i.e. per doctor. The aim here is quite clear: Doctors in hospitals should comply with working hours. With this new law, we do not change the working time regulations, but we are expanding the control and criminal procedures. The labour inspectorate will also have access in the future and can carry out accompanying control. Compliance with or the more efficient enforcement of the working time limits already very widespread will lead to a decrease in treatment errors and thus benefit doctors and, above all, patients. This is certainly in our utmost interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22322	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Magistrate. Iron gift. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22344	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! This novelle is absolutely right to make more effective enforcement of the protection of workers. It ensures a more relaxed and better treatment for hospital doctors and their patients, which is the basic prerequisite for confidence in our medical profession. A successful control system has long been established in Lower Austria for these reasons. Nevertheless, it became apparent that even more commitment was needed, mainly due to the long working time, especially with the internalists, but also because of the willingness of the doctors to take on additional time burdens for greater merit. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This Hospital Working Time Act is an important part of our health care system to ensure responsible handling of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22374	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 588 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen. I will therefore vote on the part concerned by the request and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Government's proposal. May I ask all Members to take their seats! [[Abg. Oils: Awesome, the chaos in the ÖVP!]] We shall first proceed to a separate vote with regard to paragraph 2 of the draft law as amended by the Government's proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:28:57]] 9. Point report of the Committee on Education on the Government template (548, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act (630 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Education on Amendment No 2/A by Mr Dieter Brosz, Members of Parliament on a Federal Act amending the School Organisation Act (631b.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Education on Amendment 371/A(E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, Members of Parliament on the legal anchoring of the maximum number of school students 25 (632d.B.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 10/A(E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, colleagues, on the fastest possible reduction in the number of students in secondary schools (633d.b.) 13. Point report of the Committee on Education on Amendment 32/A by Mrs Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the School Organisation Act (634 d.b.) 14. Point report by the Committee on Education, Research and Technology on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the School Organisation Act (635 d.b.) 15. Point report of the Committee on Education on amendment 369/A(E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, colleagues, on no AHS reception tests (641d.B.) 16. Point report of the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 645/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Hauser, colleagues on copy money at compulsory schools (642 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22461	We now come to points 9 to 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Brosz. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22491	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Once again, it is a question of half empty or half full glass. We have the change in the school organisation law regarding the question of the maximum number of students. There was a long debate on the question of a defined indicative value or a legal provision, where one definitely finds that a certain number, in this case 25 students, may be in compulsory schools – and not per class anymore. The Ministry then argued for a relatively long time that there should be some flexibility if, for example, 26 students were there that there should be the possibility of either making two 13 classes or setting up funding measures with additional resources. This is something one can discuss and to a certain extent one can join in with regard to compulsory schooling. But what is quite different is the lack of action in other schools, especially in the upper level, especially in the field of higher education. These are exactly the schools where we know that we have classes of 30 students, partly even more, where even in the foreseeable future there is nothing better in view and where no additional measures or resources are possible. There, of course, one has the problem, we lower the number of school students, you can take up fewer students. This is a certain problem that we can't simply wipe out of the table by saying that we're squandered, there are fewer places. From that we could have said now, in total, this is, of course, too little. That's it, too. If you look at the concrete measures that are now proposed in the field of compulsory schools, you have to say that the amendment that is now being tabled is at least one step in the right direction for us. It is something where more resources are made available – undisputed. Now you can say no art in the face of ten years of geers. The bar is relatively deep, which is somehow the difficulty in assessing. On the other hand, one can recognize that at least the attempt to improve school resources has been launched, to give more resources to make classes smaller. We shall therefore vote in favour of this request. Nevertheless, we will also make an amendment with which it would have been even better, because it makes it clear that in this case there is a real need for additional resources to be allocated. I would like to make one comment on this request: [[Quoted print version removed]] By the way, this is also a provision which is now quite absurd in the law, because we are now resolving the maximum number of legal students, the upper limit. There's no longer the 25. Nevertheless, there has been a provision that, if there are fewer than 20 students, no classes should be formed. That's natural. in connection with the fact that the 25 were the upper limit. If you take it literally, Mr Niederweiser and also Mrs Minister, we now have a provision of law as a target, which is quite absurd. I'm just bringing an example. Two years led, 39 students, the law does not recommend a class with less than 20. What's going on? – A class with 39 students as a recommendation of the law. No one can take that seriously. That's why you should change that. If, perhaps, the early termination of this legislative period also leads to a relatively rapid end to what has been started here, then you get a differentiated picture. As a result, there has been some improvement in the number of students in the class. On the other hand: Many sites of education policy have remained completely untouched. I'm just saying teacher training, which is an important point where we still have a separate teacher training from high school and AHS teachers and where we have the problem that the possibility of a better exchange, a better constriction will be very difficult – also a relatively intense problem in the new middle school. Where – and this is the allegation that has actually happened to you, Mrs. Federal Minister – little has happened is in the replacement of private assistance. When you look at the numbers, you see, it becomes more from year to year. The measures have apparently not led to a need for less private recovery – a development that is quite worrying, especially when it comes to what families have to pay for. €150 million per year – this has to come somewhere, and it has become more from year to year. You didn't succeed in limiting it. In all, the funding measures have not been extended in the last few years to the extent that they should have been extended. For example, if you look at the debate, “Kurier”, I only say student lawyer Salcher in the direction of ÖVP, who was sitting with you in the municipal council at that time. Maybe you should have a little bit of an open ear, what's going on there. Legathenia, for example, is a central problem, where there is far too little funding, where parents have to finance accordingly. Also a point that was long promised: My colleague, Mr Niederwieser, in 2005, I can well remember, request, joint, reform education schools, alternative schools, funding of teacher costs. – Nothing happened during this legislative period! It is still true that about 90, 95 percent of the costs must be borne by the parents! So you see, kind to a certain degree, our consent here too. A little improvement has been made. But if you take the whole latte, there's a lot missing. Let me say something at the end because Mr Graf will come out afterwards and say that the FPÖ rejects it because it is too little. - That's right! However, if you take into account what happened when you were in the government, then it is noted that there we had the most massive teacher reduction in recent years. We have lost 5,000 teachers' posts within a very short time. The fact that you're going out now and saying that's too little, after what you've done with Minister Gehrer from at least 2000 away together there, I think it's a little brave. In so far as our evaluation is concerned: It was a step in the right direction, at Weitem too little. But At least I wanted to say that before you came out: If you forget crocodile tears here about it being too little, given the massive destruction you have to answer for, then this is not really credible!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22616	The amendment tabled by Mr Brosz is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22694	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22715	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! – Perhaps Mr. Graf won't come out here any more if he heard that. – First of all, I put in a motion for an amendment, almost wordless. [[Quoted print version removed]] The reason for this amendment is Niederweiser, a new builder, that other means of support can also be provided in the implementing laws, but the resources must nevertheless be made available. The difference with Mr Brosz's request is actually only within this lower limit of 20 years. I mean, the example with the 39 – you know it yourself anyway – is somehow from the moon or from where. So, anyway, there would be no such thing as opening a class with 39. It's also supposed to be inside – and don't have to. There is therefore sufficient room for manoeuvre. Mr Brosz has rightly stated how it used to be. In the end, it is a year and six months over which we have to report, no longer possible, the People's Party did not want to continue this coalition. That is why I do not think we can take stock of a whole programme. I also know some of what It's not done yet, what's yet to come. But we would have needed these four years. The essential thing, however, which has also come and which is nowhere in it, is really a very massive cultural change that has taken place with Claudia Schmied at the Minorite Square, namely in the way of cooperation in the house and also in the way of cooperation with the schools, with the school partners, where you have really felt and heard this very quickly as feedback from the schools that you find, there is again someone at the top of this resort, a woman who has a lot of understanding of what is happening in the schools, a lot of interest in new things that are being tried. I think Mrs. Schmied, that was her greatest merit, in addition to the legal changes, to have completely changed this mood. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The school leaving is already over, but thanks to all the school partners for what they did last year. What we are doing today is to put the reduction of the number of students on a legal basis. This is important for every future finance minister, for every future government. It was started last autumn. I would just like to tell you one example of a school – there are really hundreds of such classes in Austria –: Polytechnic school in Fügen, 78 pupils, four classes. Last year, there were still three classes with almost equal numbers of students. With four classes, of course, you can teach much better – the 25. Students share – and the quality of the education has increased, and it will certainly have an impact – not immediately, but in the medium term – on the fact that the number of follow-up benefits is falling. This is the biggest quality leap the school system has seen in the Second Republic. It also costs a lot. It will therefore be the task of all those sitting in the next National Council, in the budget, which will then have to be decided very quickly in autumn to take care of the next year so that this can also be implemented. With regard to political education, I would like to ask all my colleagues: Forget She does not ask our “democracy workshop”, which is not now in the law, but which deserves a high approval from all of us – in order to get in touch with the students. Since I mentioned the cultural change in the beginning, let me conclude, because we are also facing elections, saying: We have experienced a school policy in the years 2000 until the end of 2006 which was essentially carried by the Grasser/Schüssel course. What we never want and what we all ask about in Austria: There must no longer be a return to such a course, but we must continue our efforts to invest in education!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22803	The next speaker was Mr Graf. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22825	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I won't just say in one sentence: That is too little for us, and we reject it. Mr Brosz has already hit the nail on his head. You know, in committee, I've already said this: It is just too little for me that we are now celebrating monthly intervals, the maximum number of students is reached. [[Abg. May. Lapp: You can't celebrate that often enough!]] What has been said in the regulation has now essentially been enshrined in the law, and everything is only about indicative values and so on. I have a little suspicion that the demographic population development, which will automatically be reduced in very wide and many areas, would be wanted to “sit out” more or less and then sometime in 2010/2011/2012: Now we've finally reached it! – But you didn’t do much for it at all. There are attempts, there are efforts in the right direction; that is all no question. But you could have solved it differently if you really wanted to solve it. Then we'd have been found as a partner. We also know as realists that everything cannot be changed from today to tomorrow. There must be an objective in the law: The maximum number of students from school year 2010 onwards and measures are taken as follows and more similar. – At some point, you have to reach the time when you simply don't allow it to be more students if you want it. And that's what's going on. But I would also like to acknowledge the serious effort made by the Federal Minister with her place of business to do the whole thing in dialogue, as she does in many other areas of your department. This was at least one quality in the last 16 months, which has not taken place in many other resorts. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] Although we are not always of an opinion – that is the case with political parties who have different goals – the dialogue is important. We will also carry along the language support from the draft law, which we now have to vote on, and we have also tabled a request for a separate vote. I would like to say a few words in principle – we will now deal with several blocks –: If one conducts education policy – no matter what ideological orientation one comes from – then it must be an educational policy based on well-founded data. We had to find out again and again – there are improvements in educational documentation, a lot has been done with the database – that it will be necessary for us to move forward a little faster. We work partly in a “black box”. We don't know anything from some areas, or one state tells us that, the other. And now we already have a “black box” that we have gone to the bottom of: the private school sector in the religious field. In the answer to my question, which was received just recently, you say: From the years 2003 to 2006, there are no student codes for each student. This is not available, but it will close now, because now you finally have the tool and the like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] – I say we have to close that! There must be a common effort to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: We have decided!]] On the other hand, you say you don't have any student code numbers. - Okay, that's all right, we'll take note of that. But then it is unconclusionable if you return the increase in the budgets from € 219 to € 237 million from 2003 to 2008, which were related to the changed number of students for the private religious schooling. How do we know? We get an answer to questions 3 to 6: There is no data on student numbers. But then it says we have to spend more money because the number of students has increased. – This is a contradiction in itself. What's funny then is the following: We ask because there must be equal treatment everywhere, how many students who do not belong to the respective denomination have been or have been taught in schools from 2003 to 2008. - We wanted this broken up. That's where you say – I quote –: “No evaluations can be offered for this, as no survey of the religious confession of the individual students takes place within the framework of the educational documentation.” – Quotes. That's not much. This is a complete “black box”. I ask that we make every effort to move forward. Then another thing: I believe that we must also systematically move towards promoting private schools differently than before. This applies not only to the religious sector, which is regulated by law, but also to non-confessional private schools, which today mainly operate through association promotions or similar aid instruments. I believe that we should also open this market; that would be quite good – and: boost competition. Another word for the reduction of teachers: Mr Brosz, like his party in the forthcoming elections, did not choose the government parties to “match” with them, as we do, but only the liberals. And now they just want to put the blame on us everywhere. All of a sudden, “the ghosts of old ” are back from your point of view. If there have been early retirements, the nice thing for officials is that you can get them out of retirement at any time – you have to have some courage! - if you need it. And if you think that this is better for Austrian children, then you have to take this courage. But I am also sure that this is not at all necessary because demographic development in all areas is actually in control of the educational objective. We'll make it that way. But if anyone who is in the government thinks that was a mistake, then you can use the means of reactivation. I wish him good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22898	I announce that the amendment tabled by Mr Ddr. Mr Niederweiser, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has been sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22959	The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e22980	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we decide on three main positions which Mr Niederweisser and I were allowed to write together in the coalition negotiations on the chapter on education. For example, I do not want to underestimate the question of political education and the compulsory introduction of this subject at the eighth level. Perhaps the reduction of the electoral age to 16 of the last “kick” was that this made us the spring, but I think that the teaching principle “Political education” spreads across all objects, but very concentrated with this duty area the knowledge of democracy policy foundations is based. The second point is very important: Education begins with language. This has nothing to do with communication skills, if you realize how politicians sometimes speak together, but the language is one of the most important skills for learning. We have already set standards in previous governments in the promotion of language at the public schools. [[Abg. Riepl: A lot has not happened!]] We extend these and extend them to primary schools and polytechnic courses. This is also important given the linguistic heterogeneity in our compulsory schools, which are a special feature especially in the urban area. The question of the reduction of the maximum number of students, a long-term demand, was finally implemented in another system. We used to have rigid boundaries: Initial limits, maximums. In the field of compulsory schooling, we are using a new means, namely the indicative value, for good reason: because this enables rural areas in particular to obtain small school locations even with lower numbers of pupils on site. The amendment that we have tabled together – Mr Brosz has also ventilated this – ensures that, when 25 resources are exceeded, they simply do not disappear, but that the available and planned resources are also available for this flexibility. Only €200 million is planned for the reduction of the number of students; that is, not a small amount of money. I think that this money is well-created, which allows for a stronger turn of the pedagogists to the individual children. I think that we have given a debated witness to the effectiveness of the debate in the field of education with these three points.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23023	Mrs Haubner's next speech. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23044	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As my previous speaker mentioned, three important areas are included in this government paper: Reduction of the maximum number of students, promotion of language and the reorganisation of ‘Policy education’. The former is an essential contribution to improving the quality of education and also offers more opportunities for students to achieve their class goal and learning goal. I am very glad that there is now a legal regime. It is precisely the discussion about the reduction of the maximum number of students that has been a very long history. There was already a popular desire in 1988 in this direction, a citizens' initiative in 2001, and the government of the past in June 2006 – then ÖVP and BZÖ – also made a joint request in Parliament to bring about a rapid solution and to reduce the number of school students to 25. I can remember that at that time the Socialist Group rejected this twice because it said that it was too soft for them, because too long discussions are being held, they want a solution immediately. – Now the talks have also lasted almost a year and a half, and there is something at the table. I honestly say that I would have expected a clear regulation of the indicative values. It is partly satisfactory for me, because this guide leaves a great scope for interpretation, but also a certain degree of uncertainty. I think we will nevertheless agree to this government proposal in this area, because it is an important and necessary step. At the same time, we have also submitted a further application, including the secondary and vocational schools in the reduction of the number of students. I think that is one of the first tasks of a next government, that there is also a legal anchorage here, because it is precisely these schools, wherever this is very necessary, that cannot be excluded. The second area concerns language promotion courses as a school integration measure for children also non-German mother tongues. I believe that this is quite, very important and allows the children better opportunities to follow the lessons and understand many things. I think the ceiling has not yet been reached what the promotion in the language of the children is about, but generally, the promotion, the re-help of the children is important. I would like to point out a request that we made in this context a few months ago, that we have said that we need further legislative measures such as limiting the share of non-German native children in classes by 30 percent. I believe that this would be a very important and necessary step if we continue to discuss improved language support. Support for us is also a follow-up from the BZÖ. I think there is an absolute need for action when considering what remedial aid the parents cost each year. Parents need to get very deep in the bag for private re-help. According to a study by the Chamber of Labour, a total of € 140 million will be spent on recovery. Already 8 per cent of the pupils in the primary school need re-help, and this increases to three times in the sub-level of AHS, which is to 24 per cent. I therefore think that one should highlight and say an approach to the Civil Service Law and the Landeslehrer Service Law: There would be a possibility to assume that teachers are giving free assistance to their students in the last weeks of the holidays – we imagine in the last three weeks. There are already in § 56 para. 5 of the Landeslehrer-Servicesrechts, but in § 219 para. 4 of the Civil Service Law: The teacher can be called back to service for important service reasons during a holiday. I believe that improving the opportunities of our children is an absolutely essential task of service, and that could be done. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, the third area includes 'polite education'. I think it is necessary, especially in the course of the election age reduction, to meet the needs of the The European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions will be working together to ensure that the European Parliament and the Council are fully aware of the need to ensure that democracy is understood and implemented. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] I have just seen in the last few weeks very many student discussions that this is very necessary, because it is unfortunately God's in very many young people a certain frustration and a disinterest there. I was in a school recently, and there students asked me: Why do we have to choose? – Only the question “Why do we have to choose?” has made me stop, and I think we have to do a lot. That is why, from my point of view, this is actually very late, that this should only start with this school year, but we really have to be very clairvoyant and especially the young people are interested in politics. – Of course, what has happened to this government in recent weeks and months and how it has presented itself in its performance has not particularly contributed to the development of a great enthusiasm for elections for just 16-year-olds. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to point out a request which is being negotiated in one, that is the FPÖ's request for a copy fee, that there should be a uniform federal regime in this regard. I agree with the applicants that children cost a lot of money, that in times of consumption of food, high food prices, increased fuel prices, and so on, these things cause a big hole in the family budget. Especially in Upper Austria, we from the BZÖ have always been committed to the fact that there is a country-wide regulation that has already been implemented mostly in Upper Austria. We have put forward a proposal regarding a Family Future Fund from which these funds are to come out and be made available to families, because we believe that we need to help quickly and that we can help faster if we leave this in the countries: as an important and quickly feasible social benefit. If we wait for a regulation to be implemented for the whole of Austria, then we will have to wait a little longer, because of course the new elections will move a lot to the long bank. We from the BZÖ therefore support this request in substance, but say: Rapid aid in the federal states, rapid implementation in the countries! This helps families the most, also for early 2008 and 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23172	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23273	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23294	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In view of the current political developments, I am also very pleased that we are now able to deal with this important government proposal concerning the novelle on the school organisation law. It is not only a budget-weighted law, but it will make a decisive contribution to it and, I am particularly pleased to be able to contribute on a sustainable basis to the clear improvement of the quality of teaching in Austrian schools. With this law we plan three key areas – you have already been addressed by you in your debates –: First, smaller classes. However, I would also like to mention, Mr Brosz, the divisions that are now planned, especially at the ninth level and especially with regard to vocational secondary and higher schools. And it's not that small, which is also taken financially into account here, because only in the ninth level of school it is for mathematics and professional duties – the figures are quoted in the explanatory remarks – about € 18.4 million, which are more invested. We will be able to check in two years – an evaluation is planned – whether the drop-out quotas can be reduced accordingly whether these measures have taken place or not. What is very important to me as a Minister of Education is that every child who goes to school in Austria also has the German language. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Sounds.]] It is therefore crucial that German funding is also offered at every age level in compulsory education if it is needed. That is to say, with this innovation you not only approve the necessary extension of language promotion courses in the field of folk schools, but we also extend it to the field of primary school and the polytechnic school. The subject of political education has already been discussed. I would just like to inform you that we have completely revised the curriculum, including in the direction of competence orientation, and that Europe, European policy and education in particular have a crucial role to play in the curriculum. One essential point – we have discussed it very constructively and intensively in the Committee on Education; Mrs Haubner has also mentioned this – the issue is indicative. Especially in the field of compulsory schooling – we are moving in the national competences – I believe it is important to show this flexibility. I just remember small and small schools in rural areas, where we cannot prescribe these landings. As far as the bandwidth – but also Mr Neugebauer has already pointed out – is this a target band width and not a must fixed in the law. It should show the corridor where we want to move in the interest of the students. The essential thing is, in that it is a very important measure, that we can now employ 2 300 teachers in two years alone. This is also very, very important when we look at the age pyramid of those in the teaching profession: 50 percent of our employees will retire in the period 2012 to 2020 alone. It is therefore important to employ young employees in the field of education even now. Finally, I should like to express my joy at the fact that this bill can be dealt with today. It is a key to the government programme, and I would also like to thank myself, on behalf of my staff, for the constructive cooperation not only in the teaching committee, but also before and after that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23358	The next speaker was Mrs Schasching. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23379	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Today's decisions, the SchoG-Novelle, but also the decision on the education standards and the decision still in place, on the professional maturity test, all of which are decisions that simply and simply create more opportunities for individual promotion, for improving the quality of schools and for resolving educational deadlocks, as is the case with professional ageing. I am very happy that this is still going through the stage together today, because I remember what was not possible in the years before in education. We have already heard today how high the number of teachers alone is – compared to the previous years in which there has been a reduction, but now there are many new jobs, many opportunities for young teachers. It does quite well to know that this has been dealt with quite differently, and I thank you, Federal Minister Dr. Schmied, that you have also brought fresh wind to the ministry in the style you have worked in. I know and I am convinced that it is the top goal and that the aim of social-democratic education policy is that no one child is on the way through the school “lost” and each child needs to be promoted to the best possible extent according to his talents. This goal is not only a humanistic right, but also an economically necessary one for Austria. And with today's decisions, we can get a little closer to this goal. I am convinced that the decision on the reduction of the maximum number of school pupils is an important decision for the future that future finance ministers can no longer come with the savings fund in this area, thus bringing education quality and equal opportunities to all pupils in the long term also on the right track. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23421	The next speaker is Mrs Zwerschitz. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23443	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We've heard that the 20 are just a target. Mr Niederwieser, I really like you to believe that you will do so, but unfortunately we do not know who in the future will have the sovereignty of interpretation on this target. Let's see! I very much wish you were right, but unfortunately you can't guarantee it. In this way, the question arises why it stands inside. However, I would like to go into language promotion courses now, after a lot has already been said about the indicative value. In principle, language promotion courses are something that we very much welcome, which is urgently necessary. Unfortunately, the implementation of these language promotion courses is still quite problematic, because in many schools the resources of teachers are so thinned that precisely such language promotion courses are cancelled, are absent, are affected by class aggregations, if any of the colleagues are ill – because there are no longer those infirmary pools that once existed. This is something that schools have complained several times, and unfortunately this will not change now. And it will not change, either, that we have these language promotion courses permanently, because we have only extended them to two years in this SCHOG-Novelle – as if we thought we would not need them in the future; as if we thought that in two years no more immigrants would be there; as if we were thinking, in two years we would no longer have language problems. That's something we can't quite understand or cannot understand. We would have wished that we would simply decide on a permanent basis. That it is also in the main schools and polytechnic courses – well, thank God! Urgently necessary! The second thing I want to address is political education. We called a year ago for much more political education, especially in view of the reduction in the electoral age. – Today neither the chancellor nor the Vice-Cancellor has taken the word “youth” into their mouths in their declaration of government. I suppose this will look a little different in the upcoming elections. Political education is something essential. The fact that we define the curriculum here that political education is getting more to schools is something important, something necessary, something we urgently need, but it is not equipped with extra hours. From this point of view, I wonder: What's going to fall away? Or does it mean, as it was in many subjects, we get something to do, but the old remains, and that means there is less fortification, there is more transit in the quick procedure, there are more areas that are either not taught – I don't know, then let's leave Roman history away, or what? – or being “outsourced” to the home, about which parents increasingly complain: that teaching material, which can no longer be brought to the students in schools, can then be done as a task at home and finished in referendums? Political education, as has been said, is something very necessary – not in the sense of knowing: How many Members are there?, but mainly in the sense of understanding: How do votes work? How does democracy work? – Just today, this value study came out, which says that the youth is supposed to be so political – something that we cannot really confirm. It is only averse to traditional politics, which is not surprising, for example, if one looks at today's vote on the tuition fee, where a party that has promised something great does not make it in the final effect, if it has the chance to do so, – say: not for the sake of abolishing the tuition fees, even though it has actually won a choice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: “Wone” can’t be said! You also lost, but stop less! Less lost!]] – The SPÖ has also lost, but it has placed the chancellor for at least two years, you have to say. Political education, for example, would urgently need more hours, more opportunities. Democracy is something you can't start with early enough. Young people are very likely to have policies when it comes to civil matters, for example, when it comes to involvement in the field of animal welfare, when a fellow student is to be identified because she is an asylum-seekers. Therefore: Fine if the curriculum has been revised, but I fear that without additional resources it will be very difficult to implement political education in the broad sense of how we would like to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23494	Next, Mr Schelling will speak for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23516	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! As a matter of principle, this regulation today, especially with regard to the maximum number of students, is naturally to be welcomed. But what I criticize: It is once again only one single measure. We were used to seeing almost daily the media proposals from you, Mrs. Federal Minister, about changes in the school system. Even today we decide again some of these mosaic stones. The question is, which image will eventually result from these many mosaic stones and the announcements – such as the aptitude test for teachers, central matura, preschool language test et cetera. Unfortunately, no notions of an overall approach to the ‘new school’ have yet been made, except for the medium-announced individual measures. We have even set up a subcommittee on the Education Committee, which is why we also have the question: Why are these proposals, or – we are still talking about it – not discussed in the teaching committee in the educational standards per folder? In concrete terms to this present presentation, I would like to ask you once again: Why is the objectives set out in the government programme not being achieved in all the first classes of all school types, and thus in the higher education schools? – I know you will now argue with the drop-out quota, but the question remains: What has been done to reduce this drop-out ratio in the sense of demolition? Or, Mrs. Minister: Why don't you set the highest numbers for the second class of high-level vocational schools if there are such high drop-outs in the first one? Finally, a reference to two topics of this paper: The subject of political education is planned, but there are no statements on how this is to be implemented in the curriculum or at whose expense. Secondly, The template shall contain: ‘Education begins with language’. – This is to be underlined by 100 percent. Unfortunately, nothing has yet been done in this chapter in the pre-school field, except for announcements, because the promotion of language, which we decide today, refers to primary school, primary school and polytechnic course – and not to pre-school. I therefore believe that it will be necessary to continue implementing these measures. All in all, from my point of view, a continuous balance sheet. Nevertheless, thank you for your efforts to address the problems in the dialogue, even if they were not solved or only partially solved.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23567	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. He wants to talk for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23588	Madam President. Minister! High house! I too would like to start with a small example of the calculation. If one school receives 120 registrations, there are two ideal solutions – one ideal for me, the other probably ideal for you –: The two classes with 30 students each, in the other case five classes each with 24 each. – These are the consequences of a Swarmish law, as my colleague Graf has already mentioned, where, ideally, individualised care and quality education remain on the track for me, at the expense of a indicative value that you have decided, and a fixed border would certainly be more reasonable and would bring more. What a gay formulation and trickery can still accomplish, I am receiving today a press release from the ORF Upper Austria, where there is: ‘Class student maximum as mogel pack’. That's what it's all about. It has now been found that 98 students are registered in a school in Upper Austria, which brings four classes, but 44 non-spray students who are not counted anywhere according to the decree, and thus each class has 35 students instead of the announced 25 suddenly! – Shame for a law with which you boast, but which you should have formulated more precisely: for the benefit of the students and also for the benefit of the teachers. Today we have heard from honourable Members Neugebauer that small and small schools have also come to appreciate this law. I recently attended the 100-year celebration of such a small and small school, which is now in danger of becoming one-class at all four levels. It is already interesting to see a number of ÖVP politicians appearing there and trying to change laws with a blow. The mayor wants to “buy” her own teacher – and one member says: Well, if we stick together, we can do that, no problem. My approach to micro- and micro-schools would be quite different – which, however, is not in the field of education policy but in the family policy field – that we simply have more children in our rural areas to obtain these schools. This is the easiest and also the cheapest, best way for Austria, for our country, for our home country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Do you have a suggestion on how to do this?]] The great value such small rural schools have is that they not only impart education and knowledge, but also give to the students a piece of homeland, in the form of songs and poems that belong to our people and to our culture. I was very excited about what the children have commanded at this celebration at all ages of this school. I would also like to address a subject that is also important to me because it is also often addressed to me, and that is the issue of “rehelp” with the related costs. Mrs Bundesminister, there must be grounds for increasing the number of children to benefit from re-help, yes. A reason will probably be found in the quality of teachers, perhaps there is also a reason in the parents' home or in other areas. Are there studies on this? And if not, wouldn't it be time to order such a one? I think that could contribute a lot to the investigation. Finally, there must be consequences and solutions to this problem at some point.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23631	Mr Dr. Niederwieser spoke on an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the legal provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23655	Mr Schelling has said here that language promotion in the pre-school field has not been done at all. I'm actually correcting: The pre-school area has not been covered in detail by this law, but by an Article 15a agreement. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Please, you can't say that! – This agreement bears the signatures of Schmied, Bures, Hahn, Kdolsky; this should have been about. It is precisely this early promotion that is explicitly promoted in kindergartens and preschools, and we are glad that the ÖVP countries have also decided to participate. – As far as the actual correction is concerned. To my colleague Mr Zanger I would like to say: It would be even more important to us in the solutions. The idea was good, but it is not a concrete solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23695	The next item is the speech by Mrs Muttonen. 2 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23716	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Three points to a very encouraging change in the school system. Organisational laws. In summary, the objectives of these innovations are the following: smaller classes, enhanced language promotion and the introduction of the compulsory "history and political education" at secondary level. First point: After the beginning of the previous year to reduce the maximum number of students to 25 pupils, this guide value is now to be laid down by law for primary schools, primary schools, polytechnic schools and the sub-level of the AHS. I think this is a very important step. Whoever you're talking to: The joy is and the relief is very great. This is not only the case with the students, but also with the teachers and, of course, the parents. The aim can only be to create the best possible framework conditions for students so that they can develop all their talents, talents and potentials, in cultural techniques such as reading, writing and computing, as well as in the field of key competences and cultural competences, so summarized in the field of personality development at all. I would like to thank Mrs Schmied for working and fighting in this area in an unobtrusive and persistent manner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point, which is also very important, is the continuation of the short-term language promotion courses for students who have a lack of knowledge of the teaching language. I believe that this is a very important point, because this is not only about migrant children, but also about children of German mother tongues who need support and support. It is therefore important to continue the language promotion courses. A third point, which is also very important to me, is the expanded subject of “history and political education”. For years, we have called for more and more introduction of the “Polish Education” in schools to increase the understanding of young people for democracy and also for political systems, and increase their interest in political education. I am glad that we have now put this into this law. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a lot to do in the field of education. There have been other major projects. Measures were announced, for example in the field of education and vocational guidance, which, as I believe, would also be very important and important. Unfortunately, we cannot implement these now, partly because of the blockade by the ÖVP and, of course, because of the early elections. But, ladies and gentlemen: It's not suspended! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23767	The next item is the speech by Mr Principality. 2 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23789	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The first point in the School Organisation Act is the reduction of the maximum number of students to 25 students per class in primary schools, primary schools and polytechnic schools. It is important to take steps with regard to the creation of additional classrooms. For one or more years, students should not be forced to invest too much in additional classrooms. The development of the number of students should be considered, monitored and taken into account accordingly. The expansion of language promotion courses in primary schools and polytechnic schools as well as their extension to primary schools is, in my view, very valuable and positive. [[Abg. Parnigoni: A success of the SPÖ!]] I am thinking, for example, of the folk school in our home town of St. Nikola, where we have a lot of children of different mother tongues due to asylum seekers. These eleven hours of a week towards language promotion are therefore an investment in the future. Third point: The new subject of “history and political education” is positive in terms of “selecting with 16”, but also a great challenge to teachers regarding the fulfilment of the curriculum, that this is also accommodated accordingly. Overall, the school organization law is a good law, which can be agreed with a calm conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23825	The next item is Mr Elmar Mayer. 2 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23850	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two things very briefly to the colleague Graf and also to the new educational speaker Wolfgang Zangervon der FPÖ: You have to be careful when quoting such things. It's about a division number. One cannot explain it with demographic development, but it is about a division, and it always remains the same. We also experience this in schools, even where the numbers are declining. The number of partitions is important and therefore also the indicative figure that we have discussed. The pleasure is – I am deliberately saying this because such reports are currently piled up “Poly is bursting out of all seams”. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date]] – In different compulsory schools we have the same. The municipalities regret that they suddenly have too little room for students due to the new school policies. The impact in detail on two specific examples, in schools I visited myself in the last school year. Once the poly in Dornbirn, which also wrote the above article: 62 students last year, i.e. in the school year 2006/2007. There have been two classes of 31 students each. Due to the changes of last year, 62 students had a class with 20 and two classes each with 21 students. The same in the first class of a folk school: Trained: 59 children. We had two classes of 30 and 29 students. Now, after the blacksmith’s reform, there are three classes, two classes each with 20 and one class with 19 students. In order to see how much more teachers can do to help the children, I do not think I need to explain to an educational layman if I have 20 children in one class instead of 30 children. That is why it is very important that we can actually keep together this fresh wind that has returned to school. Now also a little on the follow-up areas: It is already so – you have to examine it carefully – that there are also parents who want their children to be louder already in the folk school Very good have, therefore, to take remedial action so that they can also carry away the goods in writing or mathematics. There really is. It is not all pupils who receive remedial assistance who are at risk of being negative or at risk of their schooling. But the decisive thing in schools is – and therefore I appeal to you all, ladies and gentlemen – that a new spirit has finally come in there. We are away from a Elisabeth Gehrer’s “participation age. ” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is now a fresh wind in the schools outside. Everyone is looking forward to teaching. When I get to school, I'm told, hopefully we'll stay there if there are new elections – and it's so far in the meantime – that minister is preserved. I'll tell you: I am fighting most for the Social Democrats to remain the number one in this initial election campaign. This will also ensure that we will continue to have a Minister of Education Claudia Schmied and can continue to work so successfully in education policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23919	The next item is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23940	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! “Education reduction” at the time of Elisabeth Gehrer – I don’t let that stand! That is absolutely not true! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to focus in my remarks on political education in the 8th century. The level of education is to be established. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You want the goers back!]] Yeah, that's right! But I want to talk about political education now. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a true word!]] We have enabled our young people to vote at the age of 16. That is, we have given them responsibility, which does not yet feel grown. I often feel this in discussions on parliamentary visits when young people come and express themselves, feel insecure, and say that politics is actually a blasphemy for them. I mean, we have a lot to do here, because it is about ignorance among young people. They are afraid to learn political contexts. It is up to us to make these children curious and to bring them closer to their policies in a positive way. Finally, it is about everyday concerns and a positive perspective for the future. This requires basic knowledge. I recently received a letter of thanks from a teacher, in which he writes among other things: I simply think it is important to be so close to political events. – They were here in Parliament. – Let us hope that political education, which will soon be decided, will also have a stable and sufficient place in the school and, above all, in the hourboard. - Quote. This political education gets a fixed place, it is now called “history and political education”. However, the hourboard has not been extended, and I hope that political education will not be too short.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e23994	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the School Organisation Act in 630 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent Mr Niederwieser, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues. Finally, there is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Graf. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments mentioned or the request for separate votes and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. Mr Brosz, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 1 of the draft law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies DDr. Mr Niederwieser, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment which also refers to paragraph 1. I would ask those Members of the House who want to give their approval to this part of the draft law, in the version of the amendment just mentioned, in order to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 3 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, which refers to paragraphs 14 and 17 of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In case of consent, I ask for a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner and colleagues on solidarity model're-help'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 631 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 632 of the supplements. Here again, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this, to give a positive signal. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 633 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 634 of the supplements. Here again, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this with a corresponding sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Education to take note of its report 635 of the supplements. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 641 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 642 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:37:29]] 17. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (606, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the School Education Act (636 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 370/A(E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, colleagues, on no performance standards for three-year-olds (637b.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24203	We now come to points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Brosz. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24230	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Education standards in themselves are neither positive nor negative. The question here is: What do you want to do with education standards? And I have to point out to the committee where we have already been very surprised that you, Mrs Federal Minister, have made it clear that you are actually pursuing exactly what education minister Gehrer has started before you on the issue of education standards. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Yes, literally! If you'd been careful, you'd have heard it. This is not unproblematic, because the conceptual and educational standards pursued by the former Minister Gehrer were actually wrong from the very beginning, because this was about using the education standards at the interfaces, namely at the end of the 4th and at the end of the 8th. Great. [[Abg. Wheelers: Education standards are always good!]] However, every international debate on education standards shows that this is a certain process, namely simply and simply the one that selection is carried out when it is done at this time. What is it supposed to do, education standards at the end of the 4th century? To use the schooling class, except to say: With this I decide who can go to primary school or to a gymnasium after primary school!Unknown term type: "%s".? If one were to use educational standards in such a way that they have a meaning, namely that one can put in place appropriate funding measures based on them, then it would only be logical that this can only be done if the students concerned still have some of them, and therefore it must be used earlier. There must be the possibility that, after finding out where the problems are, where there are shortcomings, where there is a need for funding, the students concerned will receive appropriate funding. – This is the first point that is quite problematic. If you look closer at it, you see, there are different models, from Scandinavia to the English-speaking region to Central Europe, where educational standards are used differently. In Scandinavia it is so that I find that you can really build on what it's supposed to be. There are own agencies there. They carry out independent tests, conduct educational tests, have people who then carry out consultations at schools, recommend the training measures that give teachers a feedback, give schools a feedback, and say that in these and these areas it would probably be better to change teaching and teacher training. That's a promotion model. This is something that, I think, can contribute quite positively to the quality of education. The prerequisite for this is, however, that the test results are also used and a feedback is given to each student. I have been very surprised that this has been presented in the Committee's debate in such a way that the feedback on the test is not actually carried out, but that it goes to the school system, i.e.: The school system receives a feedback, but the students who have made the test, the teachers who have made the test, get no feedback. That's what I'm asking myself: What is that supposed to mean? Is it about improving the respective students or about conducting system tests only, which do not exactly mean that the respective individual benefits can get better? I therefore think that the construction of these education standards is the same as They do this, they fail – no wonder – because that was exactly the concept that the ÖVP proposed at the time, which is not in the sense of a real funding model. I therefore propose an amendment in order to also document that we do not reject education standards in principle, but that simply the intention should be another one. The application contains two points. The first point is word-identifiable with the government proposal – except for the small note that we have formulated the Federal Ministers in a gender neutral form, namely the Federal Minister or the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, because it is apparently not possible to formulate laws which are also neutral against the legal provisions. I think it’s “wonderful” if this is allowed to be re-ordered by the competent Federal Minister, if it is clarified that there should actually be a gender-neutral formulation. The second point refers to the content. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let me turn to the last point, because I think this is particularly important: If you still see how the definition takes place, education standards are defined in such a way that everything contained in the curriculum is covered, then this is really a danger because it endangers any form of focus setting and individualization. We believe that this is a core, of minimum requirements that must be met by everyone, but not that everyone must do the same. I am of course concerned now, of course, if this is decided today, because I already trust you and I assume that in your mind the regulation will look in such a way that these spaces are possible in teaching. I don't know who's after 28. September as Minister of Education, as Minister of Education in the government will be and which intentions will be pursued. If someone comes to the idea, we define that totally comprehensively and say that everything is inside, then we can forget the debate about enlargement teaching material, nuclear materials, because then in schools almost exclusively for the fulfilment of education standards will be learned. That's not my picture of school, that you're all trimming so far that you say we're just learning more for the education standard that needs to be fulfilled. If you do, you can go to high school after the fourth grade, and if you don't do that, you have a problem. This should certainly not be done with educational standards!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24311	The next speaker is Mr Rada. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24332	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, it is difficult to distinguish between school organisation law and school education law. We have now experienced this in the discussion. I am therefore trying to focus on the School Education Act and to respond to all that my previous speaker has said about education standards. Education standards can be something very good, but can also be a very serious danger. Austria has so far done well with its framework curriculum in all school types. Teachers have done exactly the best for their students from all these frameworks. Of course, it is about comparability. It's about crossing modules. It's about being able to cross one type of school to the other. It is about – let's say – having a very broad range of clear conditions from Vorarlberg to Burgenland. This comparability should be given with standards. These standards are not meant, however, as explained by my previous speaker, from Monday to Friday, this and that will be checked. It is not, but it is only about comparability in all the things set out in the curriculum that we have to deal with as teachers. Whatever we need, that is the area of private schools. Private schools are becoming increasingly popular. Private schools are financed by parents there and there with a lot of money. The comparability will then be a problem. It is therefore necessary to present what Austrian schools require through these standards in private schools, because they also have public rights. In this sense, we are quite satisfied with these standards, only we must be careful that the standards do not become doctrines.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24369	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24391	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Even after a pilot phase – since the development of the education standards was already begun in 2001 – we are still entering into this legal arrangement, Neuland. This is a new country that is difficult to explain to someone who is not constantly involved. But I think it is a very important instrument of quality in teaching. What must not be, is that it is confused with an additional performance assessment. I remember: In the subcommittee we also discussed very intensively about education standards. And one of the experts said that education standards are similar to the star of Bethlehem, where you can orient yourself. – I think this is a very striking comparison, a striking finding to describe education standards. My criticism, which I have also expressed in committee, is also that the time of review is not quite clearly understandable, namely at the end of the fourth and eighth levels of school, if measures are necessary, they should be put in place in a timely manner. I think that is something you really need to take a very clear look at the observation and review of these education standards: Does this prove to be true or does one have to bring these education standards into the survey a stage before? I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Education for the subcommittees which we have had on very important issues. We have not only discussed the educational standards, we have also discussed very intensively about the year of education in the kindergarten and about the need for special educational support in schools. These have been three topics, for which if we want to make and make right decisions here in the House, we also need background information. The discussion with the experts was very good. I believe that this sensitive issue, to which we are going to agree today, is very closely monitored in the implementation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24428	The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24449	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been mentioned: Education standards are not a parameter for performance assessment for pupils, education standards are not part of a service definition within the meaning of the right to serve teachers. They may initiate curriculum changes, but they are what Mrs. Elisabeth Gehrer has initiated, what Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied has now implemented with us. I believe that no matter who will be responsible in the future, education standards are simply an effective reporting strategy on the success and improvement of teachers, they are no longer to be thought away from a modern school. We are thus creating new forms of comparability of learning outcomes and accountability in our education system. So we can do the actual thing. To describe the state of play reliably and to provide further important information for the further development of the system very soon. The experiments and preparatory work have been going on for many years. There is now the start, and a further arrondation will be possible in 2012. I would like to point out that we have a very important instrument at hand with the BIFI, this institute that is now summarized, which will also provide us with scientific support and evaluation. I should also like to thank all the interested parties very much. I believe that the subcommittee debates – I feel this way – have not been a waste of time, because I have the impression that everyone in the teaching committee is dealing with the topics for our youth with a lot of heart blood and rich experience. However, I would also like to use this opportunity to draw attention to a topic that has recently – thank God only punctually, yet dramatically – appeared that we have to take note of “zero-bock-humanity” – in modern terms – up to open aggressiveness toward teachers. It doesn't seem soothing, but I found a quote where it says: “The children of today are tyrants. They contradict their parents, sluggish with their food and annoy their teachers.” – This is 400 years old and comes from Socrates. However, we should not simply go over to the agenda, because I believe that, according to all these measures we are taking, it is important to keep the enthusiasm for educational work among parents, teachers and students. I would like to thank you very much for this cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24498	First of all, I declare that the amendment tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues and others has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore also part of the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24559	The next speaker was Mrs Zwerschitz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24580	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Yes, the standard education concept of Minister Gehrer has been continued. We finally have it now. It is also very important to me that this is the subject of the mandatory programme and that the rest of the term remains: that we will not pack everything into education standards. The fact that the education standards are very late at the end of the fourth class has already been addressed by my colleague Mr Brosz. I already know that education standards should, of course, be used to change the system. It is not quite clear, however, why students who are in a class where it can be found that the system is not working well, should not be able to benefit from an improvement as well. That is why I would also be very strong at the fact that these education standards are coming earlier. In my opinion, it is also true that these educational standards act as a further test at a seam – also for the students. The question is also always: How did the results of the education standards come about? How do the framework conditions in the individual classes look? You're gonna have to look at that. And it is already a form of commitment to an intelligent feedback system, as we know it from the Nordic countries. I would like to see the standards also contribute to the fact that something happens to it, not only a curriculum change, but also that teachers are already employed. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Why this? – If it is found that a teacher does not reach these educational standards, it needs support. Then there is either a lack of training or there is another problem. Then it is urgently necessary that it be better trained, that it be prepared to be re-trained – whatever it is. For this there is already the structured employee discussion, which has already been introduced. If this structured employee discussion were to take place right at the time, then you could make meaningful personnel development at the schools. The directors are already stopped to hold such talks. In many schools this also happens because meaningful personnel planning, personnel development is something that benefits the entire school system: the teachers, the students, but also the whole system. I therefore hope that you will agree to this amendment in the sense of results-oriented education standards, as we certainly need them in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24647	The amendment is properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24695	As the next speaker, I shall now give Mr Graf the floor to you for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24716	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, If we are already in education standards: The minutes are correct. What Mr Neugebauer said was correct. He quoted Socrates. He said that the quote was “400 years old. ” Col. Neugebauer thought it was 2 400 years old and 400 years before Christ's birth. [[Abg. Newborn: Before Christ's birth, yes! Right!]] For that to be right, it may be that someone reads it. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: No, precision is important!]] That's part of it. [[Call the ÖVP:... a pipe bar!]] – I don't need a pipe rod to do that, only if we're talking about education standards. [[Abg. Rädler: Investigation Committee!]] We will take part in this law, and we have already said that in committee. I do not want to get the authorship to see if this was the Minister of Education Gehrer, anyone or any coalition negotiator. I know it was very hard to negotiate that at the time. Mr Schweitzer was still involved, and before that it was always in the conversation. That's totally irrelevant. One thing we can hold: It has been discussed for a long time. It's been talked about for a long time. Many surveys have been conducted, and you should just start this topic once. In fact, it has only one beauty mistake, which is why we almost did not want to vote, but now we are at this point as well. It is about the fact that, in reality, everything has to be defined in the way of the regulation, although we have experienced orally or in the approach through dialogue what will stand in it, but we do not agree with it and hope that this regulation will be meaningful and, anyway, will include what we have promised. We are on the road to this matter once again, because we simply say that we have to start once, otherwise nothing will go on for the next five or ten years. Of course one can say that it is bad if this only happens to the interfaces at the fourth and eighth level. I assume that if we all get used to it in a short time, then it will expand and shift considerably, and more. I would also like to say one thing: I assume that these are not just data graveyards that end up in the trash bin. Of course, I assume that education standards will produce something – both in the performance of pupils and teachers, as well as perhaps in the organisational field, and much more. I do not really want to put this – as many speakers have now conspired – in fact, this must not lead to any consequence in the teacher sector, in the student sector and some more that we may not want. We confess to this: The corresponding correct consequence will then be drawn in a positive sense, namely that the level in Austria will be increased overall! That is the goal, and we want to know that. If we have the regulation, we will look at what it looks like in practice. That's what we're gonna do. On the Brosz request – which we will not support – regarding prevention that not already for three-year performance standards are introduced: This request is based on a major concern due to an interview with Mr Neugebauer, and we think that he is a fun proposal because he has no substance at all. In this respect, there is no need to be any fear, so we will reject this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24799	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24820	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Dr. Graf, I can only agree with you: It is important that this decision be taken today, because it will be – and I can only speak in terms of my place of business now, I do not know the political preliminary discussions – very intensively and in large rounds has been working on the education standards on the part of the department since 2001. To give you individual details: 140 pilot schools, 60 associated schools, 500 teachers involved in development work. I can only say from the perspective of those involved in this project: It is also necessary for motivating reasons to take this step today, because it takes another four years, that is, until the school year 2012/13, until we can in fact also live the education standards in schools. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we have these education standards! In any case, the Austrian education system has two central problems in my assessment – after one and a half years of competence on my part. Problem No 1: The success of education continues to depend on the financial status of parents; Problem number 2: We have huge quality differences depending on the individual school location. In the economy, it would be said that we have a quality assurance problem in the field of education. The education standards, Mr Brosz, should now not to be the fifth exam of the student, but to ensure the quality of the school location. I am already at the central point: The success of this project depends not only on the formulating of competence, not only depends on how well the regulation will be formulated, but also, as Mrs Zwerschitz has formulated, will depend on the culture of feedback at the school location. In the teachers' colleges, too, the results will have to be discussed with the teachers so that, based on these analyses, improvements can be introduced for the future. If you already have top level in quality, you will be able to secure this quality at the location as well. – So a clear measure towards quality assurance. I'll give you the right to: It now depends on the implementation and culture at the school location! We must be able to respond to this feedback, and we must succeed in developing the school, which is often a place of learning today, into a learning organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24859	The next speaker is Mr Faul. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24881	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! It's the second time I've got the "nothing" to talk to you – I couldn't say it that competently! I'm allowed to report: In my federal state, the Styria, the teachers are torn down, they are torn away from the momentum you have given in all these questions. You're just used to solving problems quickly and immediately from your former profession. Mrs. Federal Minister, do you know what the biggest bad luck for the Austrian school system would be? – If we had teachers who would think like the ÖVP colleagues who would think like the green colleagues or think like the liberals. If they were to think like you, then at all there would be a standstill, then everything would be questioned. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] Yes, no need for innovation! [[Abg. Neugebauer: Where did you go to school?]] – Dear Fritz Neugebauer, I tell you personally: They would only think about their own profit, about what they personally have as a teacher or teacher – this is clear from your attitude as a staff representative – before they would take care of the school. [[Abg. Newborn: For God's sake! I don't know! You should've gone to school with me, that would've been a mistake!]] - I'm in school, unlike you. If they were to think like the Greens, Mr Brosz, they would lose any joy in innovation because they caught themselves in the ghost, which couldn't do anything wrong with the school attempt. For God's sake, let's not do it! There are already so many problems in the approach, in thinking that there is not at all. – Thank God the teachers are more dynamic, joyful, ready to use, so they don’t think so negative before. If they thought as you do, Mrs. Haubner, they would be all the more unmistakable teachers. No one – and now the Fritz is going to give me the right – will be ordered to remedial instruction on vacations and on compulsory training, so that they are actually assumed that they have not grown up in the job. Mrs. Federal Minister, regardless of the teachers and teachers, I am pleased about the Economic Federation, about the initiative of the chambers that are associated with the development of school in Austria. I am particularly pleased with the industrial association, which suddenly takes on school problems; perhaps from other approaches, but you know that something has to go on in Austria. Mr Neugebauer, perhaps I will give you this cassette the next time, the cassette about the teaching attempts made in Germany due to the new brain research. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Which one?]] There are very new insights from which we are very far away. I honestly tell you that we need to develop there to accept the new, to look at the new – and not to think about it beforehand: What does it bring to teachers?- Oh, my God! Teachers are fully motivated. They don't want everything to stand still, and they also want to do something good for the school. Mrs. Federal Minister – I think I have already crossed my speaking time – we hope that you will also lead this place in the future government. We teachers are very happy to follow you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24956	Mrs Fuhrmann's next speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e24977	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Faul, I am very grateful to you for pointing out that teachers are very excited and even delighted about these educational standards, and this is especially because – already referred to earlier – the development of educational standards began in 2001 when Elisabeth Gehrer was the Minister of Education and the Education was still in ÖVP's hands. [[Abg. Riepl: But nothing went on!]] So I am pleased that you are also confirming here that the enthusiasm about the education policy of the EIA under the teachership is a very great one. [[Abg. Riepl: There the teachers protested!]] Thank you for this compliment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to give Mrs Federal Minister Schmied the right to say that it is really a problem that today, when they leave school, no matter what type of school, there are not only the grades that young people are asked for today, but also often the question of what school they have completed. This shows that Matura is not equal to Matura's degree in education and training. So in order to guarantee the equivalence of all trainings, in view of the fact that many in rural areas do not have the opportunity to choose among so many schools, this is already a step in the right direction. Mr Brosz said that it should not be for us to learn exclusively for the education standards. – I agree with him, but I would also like to mention why we treat the Pisa study or results in this direction as “sacred cow”. It is feared that education standards may lead to negative feedback. As nothing but feedback, one has to see these education standards, both for students and for parents, who can also recognize what quality a school has, but above all for school supervision, which should then not be able to meet educational standards, to act. Accordingly, education standards are nothing but a very constructive and effective form of development, and I would like to invite you to join forces with this development.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25036	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Eisenschenk; also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25058	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Much has already been said about education standards today, and there has also been a great deal of ongoing work by Mr Faul, so I would like to refer to the re-introduction of school news in higher education schools, which is also being debated. The current regulation, which does not require the issue of semester certificates, has been decided on the good intention to relieve the pupils. Experience in school practice has shown that this was not necessarily the best solution. The students demand the testimonies, above all the good students want to have proof of their good achievements, and the economy has also expressed the desire to make a better picture of the graduates about the witness. We therefore decided last December to reintroduce the school news for the BMS. Of course, it would have been possible at the time to decide on the re-introduction for the BHS, but there is only the essential aspect of the BHS that the semester is particularly short. Considering Easter holidays, only a few weeks remain to deal with schoolwork and tests. There was then a variant to completely disband the semester classification in this area, possibly to issue the semester certificates already at Christmas or to maintain the previous arrangement. Finally, the opinion was that the witness was being reintroduced. I think this is a good way to give a proper witness to performance and thus also to create a valuable sustainability for future reviews. This is also the first step towards professional success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25091	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Auer; also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25112	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If something has been tested in more than 140 schools with pilot tests, is already being practiced in 14 EU countries, I believe, one can well and gladly introduce this in general in Austria. It is good that these education standards can be used on certain comparisons. The fact that many of us are warning today that they should not be able to do so is only evidence that many do not want us to have a certain performance requirement as our basic principle. This is the first time we've seen it. I think it's not bad at all; we've grown up like that. It is, I believe, important for our economy and for us in general, that we keep drawing on certain standards. I should like to give you a practical example from my home community: There is a folk school and a primary school – even in a house – whose departures are really in demand. One knows all around that the performance there is correspondingly that the quality is correct. I believe that precisely these education standards will be very suitable for comparing schools with one another. This will show us that the problems of primary schools in particular in rural communities are quite different compared to those in large cities. Therefore, the education system in Austria is also a well-differentiated one, and this should remain the case so that these differences can also be raised accordingly, in order to be able to respond specifically to individual problems, not through any equalisations. In this sense: The education standards are certainly perfectly suited. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25158	The next item is the report by Mr Schelling; also 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25179	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! With the introduction of these education standards, I believe we have come on a very good path together. I think it is a crucial addition to the possibilities for further development in the education system. In fact, it is only a question of defining skills to be acquired, which should help to make the knowledge feasible. In addition to PISA, as already mentioned, an Austrian-specific test instrument should now be used in addition to these standards in order to review the concrete learning outcomes in various teaching subjects. Of course, as you have already said, Mrs Federal Minister, it is a question of whether the education contract has been fulfilled and thus of ensuring the quality of the site. The problems have already been addressed. One thing is of course that this is only going to the regular business in the school year 2012/13. Eleven years after the start – this is a great time! The second is – and about it you can discuss – whether the examination is the fourth, eighth level is correct or not, but we have also sent an evaluation on the journey so that we can check if that works. That's why I don't see this as such a big problem, but maybe it turns out that there's still something to change here. The third area, which concerns me a little bit, is that these standards are not used for the student and not at all for the teacher's assessment, but that we are missing neither a kind of benchmark that ensures this school location comparison, producing and thus, in truth, promoting competition between the sites and giving teachers, teachers and the school the ambition for better performance. I think that here too will be the appropriate benchmark. to be presented as marks, which then make this result evaluable.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25224	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek, who also spoke for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25246	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been said so much on the issue of education standards that I want to take a look at them. First: We must not be afraid; Mr Brosz, in the Committee, was concerned that this was not a diagnostic procedure, but a performance measurement procedure. – This is important because we need to learn from the first PISA and PIRL shock. Minister Schmied said that this was one of the best-prepared projects in the Ministry she found; prepared by Minister Gehrer. I remember: The Future Commission was set up under way and the preparation of the education standards began. It is fairly our status now that we say that this project will continue to work. In the end, whether it remains a diagnostic instrument, that is, that teachers can improve in further education, on weaknesses, on support measures, and/or whether it will become a performance measurement element and instrument, that is a matter of further development. The national quality framework to which we are obliged and which is linked to the European quality framework gives us a lot of meaning. Another thought: Today I have read that a Swiss canton has made new thoughts about education standards and educational funding, and I have already heard the corresponding undertones from the minister in the last week's interview. I think it's right to say: We need to finance capacity and needs and we must no longer be able to evaluate all pupils in the same way when it comes to the allocation of funding. Performance standards can help us. Let us be unafraid in the evaluation and further development and learn from abroad – we as a member of the European Union are learning this in all cases! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25279	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the School Education Act in 636 of the Supplements. Mr Brosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. There is also a supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Zwerschitz, ladies and gentlemen. I will therefore first vote on the parts of the draft law concerned by the supplementary or amendment referred to above and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. Mr Brosz, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on paragraph 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, and I shall ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it for a sign on this point. – This is accepted by the majority. In addition, there is an additional amendment tabled by Mrs Zwerschitz, colleagues, which introduces a sentence in paragraph 1 of Section 17 para. 1a has content, and I request a sign in case of consent. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we are voting on the committee's request to take note of its report 637 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:20:40]] 19. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (577, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Act on professional maturity examination (638 d.b.) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 214/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner and colleagues on free professional ageing (Teacher with Matura) (639b)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25386	We now come to points 19 and 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Zwerschitz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25419	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Professional maturity exam parallel to vocational schooling, opportunity for apprentices to finally make the Matura – very well, we agree, just like everyone else. An important step, a necessary step, an overdue step, I would say. What is less good: that we also had a request for a free professional check, which was unfortunately rejected in committee; he came from the colleague Haubner. We cannot see why the government parties could not jump over this shadow, because the number of those who make this professional maturity test is not so high that it would have torn us a giant hole into the budget. It would have been a good signal because this school visit would have been free of charge for other students who can take the mature exam. I have listened very carefully today when Mr. German Chancellor Gusenbauer said that we should make a balance for social differences and an educational offensive. Well, with the law, we succeeded at least in a very tiny section. However, I would like to point out that we are still lacking a much larger area, that we should finally close this gap: There are many young people in Austria who are not allowed to teach because they are not covered by the professional ban. There are numerous migrants, minors, unaccompanied refugees who are forced to sit around after the compulsory school. The FPÖ would probably say: on our poor taxpayers' costs. I don't want to see it like that, but I see it as a refugee girl told me: They are condemned to accept social benefits, although they would actually like to work. So if we are already talking about social differences and if Gusenbauer has said social differences are missing, we need to open up more education for different sections of the population, then our urgent request is also to ensure that all those young people who are in our country have the opportunity to make a teaching. This would also make a significant contribution to the fact that the educational gap closes a little more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25455	The next speaker is Mr Riepl, with 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25476	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Today, we are changing the Federal Law on Vocational Retirement – it has already been said – and I think it is a somewhat historic time when we are today signaling the apprentices that they already have the opportunity, during the course of the lesson period, to do the professional proficiency test, that is, to do teaching with Matura or Professionmatura, as we say. We support and support the whole story with up to €6 000. And I say to you, as one who has completed vocational training and at the time has been at the end of the vocational school and has not had a chance of continuing training, this is a very important decision that we are taking today. This decision today disbands an educational post, we eliminate a cost barricade, we disassemble it. Education is becoming more attractive, vocational schools are given an important role in cooperation if they want to benefit from it. All together, I think, is quite a positive development. We also discussed in the Committee whether this is too much for a young person, teaching and preparing for the professional matura. And I think that the social partners are also asked to provide education exemptions, educational opportunities, educational periods under collective agreements for the last year. There are already very good approaches in this direction to be developed. Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied, I would like to end by thanking you for your management and your work. I have experienced the teaching committee before and have now experienced it for a year and a half and a half, and I can tell you that it has been fun to work in the committee, especially with your competent staff. The presentation of the documents on this subject of professional maturity, I believe, is also exemplary. Good government template, a final directive on the funding programme, a list of frequently asked questions is available for information, in the Federal Ministry there is a free hotline and a folder for everyone who is interested – what more do you want? That is exactly how education is presented, and I think that is something that shows new quality in education and professionalism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25519	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25540	Madam President. Minister! High house! From the point of view of the economy, of course, a very interesting and especially important topic: Training of apprentices and graduation with Matura, something that can only give young people a great advantage in the education sector, which is of enormous interest to the economy. The frequent shortage of skilled workers speaks volumes. And it will also be good and necessary to promote this instrument and make it as easy as possible to access this system. However, it is impossible for us to see that a “normal” – I say now under quotation marks – AHS-Maturant is very likely to receive the entire training paid by the state, but an apprentice does not receive his training, has to pay it, or is to be paid by the employer. And another question that is pressing here: Will a company that is training such an apprentice who wants to make the Matura provide the necessary time for that? I do not know to what extent the discussions have already taken place and whether there are also uniform rules here. If you look at the figures, you have to be almost dizzy, considering that in ten years industry has reduced its apprenticeships from 27 000 to 16 000. A dramatic event. I hope that with this idea, which will be decided today, we will be able to counter it a little bit again. The dual training system is a reasonable one, a very good one, but it includes equal treatment for trainees, in the form that education is paid.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25577	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. Two minutes you'd like to talk to. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25601	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, career with teaching, which may not be just a keyword, but must be filled with content. And this proposal creates better conditions, on the one hand, for access to the professional maturity test and on the other, for the transfer of this examination. Various changes are being decided here, once again in the way that training is free, which for many is improved access. On the other hand, there is an appreciation of the teaching, which is very, very good in the event of a high shortage of skilled workers, better opportunities for qualifications, so that there is no one-way road here, and there is also an opening of access for a much larger group of people. There are two concerns: On the one hand, the apprentices – it has already been addressed – can already take three partial exams before graduation. I hope that false expectations will not be aroused here, because creating this is very difficult for apprentices. However, I think it is good that this regulation is well established, because it offers an opportunity for particularly powerful young people. The second is that German is now additionally examined orally, but a negative written examination with this oral examination can, as it were, be eradicated, on the same substance of the written examination. I hope that there will not be a loss of quality or a loss of level. Finally, to the folder: Yes, I also think this folder is quite good, it is well done; only I would like a folder to be sent to schools only if the law was actually passed.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25641	Mrs Haubner's next speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25662	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am really pleased that today, as it seems, it comes to a unanimous decision-making of better access to apprenticeships' professional maturity examination. As has been said, improved access, improvements in the provision of professional maturity examinations for new groups of persons, the initialisation of partial examinations and the like are more important. It has always been a special concern of the BZÖ to offer, as an educational speaker, as much as possible, equal opportunities as possible to those who are willing to perform, who are willing to perform a teaching in the dual education system, but who can and then want to continue training, regardless of the social environment from which they come, for on the one hand, we should improve the opportunities and perspectives of young people, but on the other hand, our economy also needs the best domestic professionals. That is why I am really glad, Mrs. Federal Minister, that this is happening today that we are doing it today. Carinthia has just taken on a great pioneering role, because in Carinthia there have been that for two years. You have also observed the model of Carinthia very closely and have also included it in your considerations. At this point I would really like to thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied, for your very open and very constructive way, also with ideas and Deal with the opposition's suggestions. I have always felt that this is very pleasant in discussions and discussions with you – and I think this is a result of this, too. Of course, there is a advertising drop, my predecessors have already done this: that there is no free access – there is free access in Carinthia – but that there are only up to €6 000, I think, for educational providers. And there are many questions that have not been resolved: What about the farms? The firms also needed financial incentives, such as those in Carinthia, and probably not in other federal states. What about the travel costs, with school-free rides? We have tabled a request here, because that would be something you would have to solve, in this context. The rules in the practical implementation do not yet fit a hundred percent. But it is at least one step, an important step in the direction that young people have more offers in terms of higher education. The economy can only win if we have highly trained professionals in our country. Therefore, despite this beauty error, we will accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25711	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Schmied has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25732	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very pleased with the broad support given to this government proposal, to this amendment. With your consent, you take two important steps: a clear signal to our apprentices and also a clear signal to the economy, to the strength and quality of dual training. With this novelle it becomes possible to implement the model teaching and matura, namely the simultaneous preparation for the professional maturity examination during the teaching, and then the final final exam with the 19. To finish your life. We have worked very closely with the social partners in the process of creating this law, and it will depend very much on the economy in the implementation – Mrs Haubner, you rightly stressed – that it is going into cooperative models and is supporting this project. But I'm not worried about it, because it's actually about upgrading the teaching. I would like to stress that individual federal states – so-called Carinthia, so-called Upper Austria – were exemplary with their models. We have now also tried to send a clear financial signal – which I think is important, especially to the apprentices – by providing a federal funding here. We have prepared everything, it is the funds secured in the 2008 educational path. I very much hope that the next Federal Government will take this up and of course continue that there is a federal funding of €6 000. We are already talking about this in advance with all the federal states, with the institutions of the training institutions. With the €6 000 per apprentice, the funding should be free of charge for the apprentice. Since you rightly referred to the date of publication of directives, Mrs Franz, It's always the question when you start public information. De facto, the public debate begins when one sends a law in review, and I think it is very important to always inform widely. In this case, we have sent out a first folder, which is exactly what we are going to do. We have shown, of course, that the decisions here in Parliament are necessary for entry into force, a first folder to schools, before the holidays, because we want to start Austrian-wide with this pilot year in September. I have, as it were, forgotten in the first passage to comment on a question, on the subject of re-help. Yes, there are studies on the subject of remedial action. It is important to rely on individualization, on more funding for the students, on more full-day support offers from schools, and of course you also have to look – this is an area that you actually need to look at carefully – as you can see – modular upper level, course system – as well. Studies have already been carried out. I just wanted to add that to the completeness. Since I do not intend to speak on the last item on the vote, which, I think, is more general – examination activities, exams – I would like to thank everyone for their very good cooperation. It was also a special experience for me to be active here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25798	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25820	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs. Dr. Schmied, we also thank you for your cooperation in the field of education. We thank you for your commitment, for your competence – and for the fresh wind you have brought to the department. And I think with the fresh wind we can safely sail on calmly. The professional matura, teaching with mature exam, is another jigsaw stone in this area. The decision-making package for youth employment is now under way in order to make use of all the skills of young people in our country. This conclusion is free of charge and, as I believe, is a very important measure so that financially weak people can also be supported. Together with the countries, the organization has been and will be handled. It is a good organization that will certainly create additional opportunities for many young people, so that all skills can be used in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a great decision we are making today: a decision for additional opportunities for young people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25853	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25874	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I, too, welcome this initiative, the teaching with Matura or the teaching itself by this possibility of a professional maturity test, which is presented in a “free” form under quotation marks, not least because of the fact that – Mr Haubner has already done so – that we have carried out this teaching with Matura, namely absolutely free, in Carinthia under the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider and Landesrat Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch has been in practice for over a year and, of course, this initiative has had to come in logical consequence once at the federal level, because it is simply an important step to give young people the opportunity to improve their teaching quality. Mr Haubner, however, has already put the criticism on the points that we did not quite like, since there is a slight deviation to the concept of Carinthia. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: You can't do that...!]] On the one hand, it is the variant that, unfortunately, the possibility of professional maturity testing at the federal level is not entirely free of charge, but the promotion with 6 000 € per person has been locked up. In addition, as has been said, the promotion of apprenticeships and the free ride for a possible second day of apprenticeships has not yet been given and has not yet been planned. In this context, in the context of the technical examination to be carried out in the course of this professional maturity examination, I am entitled to submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25935	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e25999	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Iron gift. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26021	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This innovation makes the professional maturity test more manageable and attractive. Since the introduction of the professional ageing test in 1997, more than 12,000 citizens have successfully completed the professional ageing test. It is also gratifying that six out of ten graduates have taken further education courses. Further benefits are now added. From autumn 2008 onwards, all sub-tests – with the exception of one – can be carried out before the 19th century. ................................................................................................................................ What is important to me, as a representative of the BHS-Wesen, is that not only graduates of the BMS, but also graduates from the BHS, but also, of course, with a three-year professional experience, can also take part in the professional maturity test. In my opinion, pre-expressions such as “increasing pressure on apprentices” or “simplification” or “watering of matura” are counterproductive to the fact that young citizens are willing to do so. Above all, the living principle – the EIA in the case – “No conclusion without follow-up” finds in the absolute permeability of the education system a valuable support. The professional maturity test allows full access to universities and colleges as a logical consequence. Ladies and gentlemen! Education is a right, and it is good to know that we are not just protecting this right but developing it for the benefit of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26060	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26081	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to modernise the education system, I believe that improving equal opportunities is one of the central objectives. I think that this small but very important step in improving equal opportunities for young people in this country is a major step forward. By improving access to teaching with Matura, we are taking an important step towards improving the permeability of our education system. This is already a significant difference to the policy we have faced in recent years than we have thought about how to build obstacles in the education system. Therefore, I think that this step – and many others that we have discussed and decided today – shows that a new spirit and a new style have really come into education policy. I hope that we will again be given the opportunity, Mrs Federal Minister, to continue along this path in the next few years. We know that in our country the opportunity to make Matura is still very unevenly distributed, according to social origin, but also by regional origin. We must continue to work towards this step, so that there are many ways to reach Matura, and there should not be an educational path as a dead end. I think that this step, as it is set out, is once a first correct step, so that it is designed so that it is not excluded from apprentices who are in establishments that have no special offers. Of course, in this form, as the courses for the Matura are by the way, it will require great effort by the young people and for the young people. That must be clear to us. This is a first important step, and I hope that further steps will be taken. I would therefore agree with Mr Riepl's proposal that it should be possible to think about the opportunities for exemption that businesses and social partners could negotiate, which could offer businesses to open up this opportunity to young people once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26119	Next, Mr Ddr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26140	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! A few remarks: The professional maturity test is free of charge for apprentices. I don't know where this comes from, Mrs Haubner, Mrs Dzerschitz: €6 000. I really have to do with these things for a long time. The cost is between 4 500 and 5 500 €; with some it is still a bit more, which makes up the effective costs. This has so far been borne by the social partners, the countries and so on. If the federal government now produces €6 000 for this, then it is paid more than enough, and it must remain free for the apprentices. It is, of course, irrelevant for the countries to continue to pay something if they wish. But one advantage is all this, and we already expect these offers to cost the apprentices nothing. The cost of travel is as follows: Of course, you're right with the family tax compensation law, but spare me to list where you should have been taking care of things as a family minister at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] As far as the schools are concerned, for example, I would have liked to see it done just as quickly as it would in this case. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the teaching committee of all the political groups, Mr Neugebauer – we have concentrated primarily on doing the things in which we agreed; we would of course also have found many points in which we could have fought, but this might not have benefited people too much – with colleagues Brosz, Haubner and Graf – the cooperation was really very pleasant and very constructive – including the staff members of the club, with the parliamentary staff, with you, Mrs Bundesminister, and with your staff in the house and in the office! I think there has been a lot of success in this short period of time, for the benefit of those concerned. Our motto was always “give opportunities”, therefore a sentence on the project that has not yet been mentioned, because it is not on the agenda either, namely to a common school: I believe that this is – in addition to early promotion – the biggest project that will ensure equal opportunities in the longer term.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26191	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Act on professional maturity examination, together with the title and receipt in 638 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign on this point. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner and others on the replacement of areas for examination of professional qualifications. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we are voting on the committee's request to take note of its report 639 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:51:40]] 21. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (579, e.g._Other Organiser ==References====External links== June 1976 on the remuneration of examination activities in the field of education with the exception of higher education and on the compensation of members of expert committees in accordance with § 15 of the School Education Act (640 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26280	We're going to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Rada, with a two-minute voluntary time limit, has been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26307	High house! Mrs. Minister! Madam President! In principle, the draft law would only represent one thing: This is an adjustment from the educational academies to the educational college in order to adjust the exams in these areas which are basically correct. Two thoughts have to be added to my mind: In principle, it would be necessary to consider whether teachers who are in a certain service relationship and who have to carry out examinations would be available in all these areas. This would be a further consideration, and it is not about the educational college at all, but it is simply about all those people who take matura examinations, who work in these areas and who then receive exam fees for their professional activity.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26334	The next item is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26356	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, since 1. In October 2007, there are the educational universities in Austria. This has changed the educational landscape in Austria. The transformation of the former educational and vocational pedagogical academies as well as the educational institutes of the federal government also resulted in inevitable changes as well as the need for the training of teachers. Educational universities offer vocational, but also targeted, science-based education. Through international cooperation in the field of research and teaching and in the fields of education, continuing and further training, new findings are gained and implemented in educational fields, especially in teaching professions. This means new demands on the teachers, and much commitment is also expected. The law now requires that exam compensations be measured according to the number of enrolled students, with 110 € per student. The allocation of the amounts to the individual examiners shall be transferred to the rectorate of the respective educational college. This means a savings compared to the previous financing model. This law provides, in accordance with the curriculum and examination regulations currently in force at public educational universities, a basis for the remuneration of examination activities.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26392	Next, Mr Brosz. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26413	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We too will agree to this request. I am already aware that at each meeting we have some tax laws that we need to adapt, because there is obviously a need to have their own laws for everything through various forms of teacher training at the university, at the educational academies and the universities. This is a good opportunity to point out that it might be useful to think about uniting teacher training. This would save Parliament and us some work because we would not have to adjust any taxes every 14 days for various examination activities. If we were all jointly trained, we would probably also have uniform rules. This might be a good proposal for the next legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26444	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Dr. Graf. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26465	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we will also agree to this bill because it will bring a savings. But perhaps in the future – and this must probably be done at some point in time, many of us are talking about it – we would not only need the harmonization of teacher training, but we should really consider making the whole post-secondary sector finally the tertiary sector, then put the same conditions everywhere and probably make the salary decent. Then you won't need the exam taxes in this form anymore, which would be desirable. It's all been said, so I'm not saying anything anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26495	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 579 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign on this point. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:57:42]] 22. Point Report of the Committee on Sports on the Government Template (561 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Anti-Doping Federal Act 2007, the Medicines Act and the Recipes Code (665 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26553	We're coming to the 22nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26580	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Doping is a joke for sports, but not just for sports, but for our society as a whole. Doping not only takes place in performance sports, but also in leisure and amateur sports. We are discussing and deciding today a new regulation on the Anti-Doping Federal Act, in which we are trying to introduce new regulations in these problems, particularly in the criminal field. Doping is up-to-date, Doping will be discussed, in the area of Tour de France, but today also in Austria, on the Austrian cycling tour. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to point out that we should not only discuss doping in the field of top sports, but also in the field of broadband, and we must discuss what is happening in fitness centers. The government's proposal now before us is trying to overcome these problems. In recent years, we have faced the problem that in fitness centres and in other sports facilities there has been little control, no control at all in fitness centres and that the applicable provisions of pharmaceutical law have hardly been applied. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This government template attempts to integrate the criminal provisions of the anti-doping federal law into a law. The provisions will be tightened. As a result of Mr Haubner, an amendment will be tabled, in which the intensification is made very clear, because we Members believe that those who use and pass on doping agents to minors should be subject to a special penalty and that the penalty should be increased from two to three years. However, we also believe that gendoping should be sanctioned in general, not just blood doping. However, for the many consumers, I believe that it is now possible to carry out appropriate controls in fitness centres with the help of the police. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Doping is an issue which we in Parliament always debated, debated, and in which we have also taken unanimous decisions. On behalf of my group, I would really like to thank the representatives of the other groups for having taken a unanimous decision on this issue in the Sports Committee. We have endeavoured to share common concerns. The amendment tabled by Mr Haubner makes this very clear. I take this opportunity to thank Peter Haubner. In fact, we have personally concluded an agreement. We have decided in Salzburg, the “Glockenwirt”, so to speak, a memorandum and have implemented exactly what we have agreed. I regret that there is no such cooperation in other committees. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I invite all of you to accept this request, and in particular the amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26626	Mr Peter Haubner is the next speaker to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26650	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In his statement, Mr Maier has already outlined the main points of this government paper on the anti-doping law. I would also like to thank everyone for their cooperative cooperation. You see, in sport, the common place is in front of the parting, and that's a good thing. Mr Maier will not hurt me if I say that the “Glockenwirt” in Salzburg was visited in the morning and that he is a faithful Chamber member and a good friend of both of us. In this respect, I believe this has also been expressed in cooperation here. But I would also like to say that we are, of course, in a special situation. A German sports newspaper entitled "The French translation for open drug scene is called Tour de France". – This is the negative, extreme side of the doping. For example, more than 300 doping controls were also carried out at the football Euro. No one was positive! This is the positive side of sports. So it goes, and we know that 98 percent of athletes do not use the doping. This is also a very essential point, because we are also making this law for them, because they are also to be protected. As far as Olympia is concerned, we are 31 days ahead of Beijing and our qualified athletes – I think they are almost 60 – have also been subject to doping controls, and there has so far been no objection. Yes, we already have to leave the church in the village, and that is why we must not go so far as to ban the brushing of teeth. In this respect, it is very important that we bring a balanced mix here. I would now like to add our amendment and explain it in its cornerstones. Above all, we decide to increase the number of members of the Medical Commission that we decide to include Gendoping in this government template, that we will impose an increase in the level of penalties for minors, an increase of two to three years, and the inclusion of athletes who have resigned and thus want to avoid control, so that we can also avoid these top athletes by explaining the termination of their career training checks and immediately enter into competitions with the declaration of resumption of the career. The amendment is still being distributed. – In this respect, I wish for sport that we will also have many medals in fair and honest competition at the Beijing Olympics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26695	The amendment just tabled by Mr Haubner has been explained in his key points and I leave him in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of their scope. The application is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26831	The next item is Mr Brosz. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26852	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! It is basically another step in the fight against doping, which is being put here today. I am also pleased that this amendment is being tabled in particular. On the basics, we agreed in advance that there are criminal provisions primarily, or not primarily, but certainly against the backmen in the doping area, not against the athletes themselves, because there the punishment of the lock is actually the sharpest penalty one can put. In that respect, I believe that this path is also right. A provision that is now included in this amendment proposal was particularly important to us, namely the question whether athletes who are locked are simply with their ability to say that they finish their active career, have the opportunity to escape doping samples. The new regulation provides that at least half a year, in any case before competition can be re-established, doping controls are possible. That's, I think, an important closing of a loophole. In general, this has already been demonstrated by the Committee's discussion, experts have raised a number of points that would still have to be innovative. This is an interesting point, because we actually come to new facts in every discussion – that is my impression – that is a difficult field. We could have needed this committee, in this case the subcommittee in autumn, to look at certain things that seem to be not working in practice more closely. So if the control body, the AGES, which itself carried out the controls, says that there are problems with the customs, it is not possible to intervene sufficiently, it cannot be seized, for example, the judicial authorities then report and say that, in any case, everything would be possible if this apparently did not work in practice, because they also tried to do so, the question arises: Is the practice insufficient or is the legal provision insufficient? The fact is that, as Mr Maier pointed out, it is totally unsatisfactory to find 55 000 ampoules, if I have really noticed it, at the customs or at the border, which are clearly available for doping purposes. And then you have to give it back because there's no way to pull it out of traffic. We must somehow resolve this problem, either in the clarification, in the execution that this is already happening, or with legal provisions, that it will become clear then. It is similar to the question of doping instruments, i.e. those with which dopings are carried out. Can they be confiscated? Then what happens to it? There seems to be clear ambiguities in practice. Another point, a similar point also the question, authority status or not. Mr Wuerkner of the AGES, who was in the committee with us, said that he said they had problems transmitting the data, because it was a GesmbH and not an authority, and therefore there was no way of linking it. All of these things are necessary – and that we are looking at that, in whatever constellation, in the next legislative period and trying to close gaps. A relevant point is certainly the question of professional bans. There are two aspects to consider. The one question is what to do with the doctors. In the field of doctors who deliberately baptize, the consequence is relatively clear that there are also criminal opportunities. The much more difficult question is: Is there any reliability that I can contact a doctor in which I have the guarantee that he knows the anti-doping rules and that I do not have the risk of being treated in the treatment then with medicines that put me in the doping risk? The case of Koubek – for all those who followed it – was quite clear where it was clear that the medications that Koubek had been given were in itself correct, but they were still on the doping list. This then led to a three-month barrier, because the doctor was simply not aware that it was actually required to report, or because he took a wrong medicine; whatever. And there would be a need to find a regulation with which the athletes have more safety. One aspect I could imagine would be: There are doctors who say: We have the information, and if you come to me, let me treat you, you have the guarantee that all doping regulations will be applied! It's hard for me to imagine that all doctors all over the world Austria knows this from the house and you can rely on the fact that all current doctors know all the doping regulations. We really have to think about how to make sense. Finally – even if it is a name equality with Jacky Maier, who is not really responsible – to the case of Walter Mayer. It is quite inconceivable what has been happening in the Austrian doping scene for years. Olympic games in Salt Lake City, blood doping affair, where one then tried to imagine that there had been only a little blood taken off and almost “to Gaudi” irradiated; that was a bit laid in the sun, because it was somehow esoteric cheap! – In retrospect, one has come to believe that this was, of course, the classic form of blood doping that took place there. Four years later, Mayer appears again at the Olympic Games, is accommodated somewhere, is not officially accredited, which has led to a great excitement that has affected Austria negatively. Mayer is blocked; all locks are upright until 2010. Then the next act of Mayer. He no longer appears in skiing, but comes to the runners, by chance, has a companion who wants to qualify for Olympia; he cares for this sportswoman. Now we have the next problem because this Walter Mayer de facto has appeared again in the context of Olympic Games. Mayer is locked until 2010. It's actually crazy what's going on! And it is apparently not possible to impracticate people who have explicitly had to doping and, also in the sense of coaching, to do this work. And as far as I have followed, Mr Mayer has never really been blocked by the ÖSV. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's already been locked!]] [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: Sure!]] – My information is that he has not been blocked and that this is also one of the reasons why there is even this possibility to change the association. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's been locked!]] - Let's stop that! There may be different information, so it may also be that mine is not correct. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: You can assume that!]] – Yes, Mr Donnerbauer, your qualified contributions here in the house are well known. That was once again one; perhaps your last one in this legislative period. If one assumes that someone is locked by an association because of dopings, then it must be ensured that the In the case of persons not able to say: I change the association; go to the next, and I'll stop practicing there! Therefore, the question of the professional ban on trainers is to be resolved in such a way that such a thing is no longer possible. So a whole sluggish of tasks that are still to be done, even if there is today a five-party request.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26930	Next, Mr Kickl. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e26952	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In this discussion about the anti-doping law, we see that the net that is being donated against doping is becoming ever closer, but at the same time, and basically with the narrowness of the network, the number of gaps that arise also increases. We know that, so to speak, we are always behind reality without really catching it. We will have to deal with this, if we don't tire out, so to speak, to increase the pace in order to finally achieve what we want: a clean, healthy and fair sport. We have discussed this very, very detailed issue in the Committee, and it is very good that some of the points in this debate have now been included in this amendment. I believe – and this has already been mentioned by my previous speaker – that it will be really necessary to think on a number of points and start with them now. One of the key problems lies – I was really shocked when I heard from Mr Lopatka’s Secretary of State – in a complete Tohuwabohu, otherwise it cannot be mentioned, of various national regulations in this whole area of anti-doping: Each state obviously seeks its salvation in any other way. This, of course, does not make a uniform approach and ensuring fairness in international competitions much easier. I am glad that the word Tour de France has previously fallen several times, although I would like to avoid doing so, as if cycling were the place of all evils. – Doping is certainly more widespread; this is also true in other areas, where we may be more prominently represented in Austria. Of the cyclists to say that, we're a little easier; there's not exactly a big nation in Austria. So the tag Tour de France has fallen, and then it's amazing when you get the judgment on the one hand with the Tour-Start 2008 a few days ago that you even know who won two years ago, because it took so long to know at all: Has he been baptized or not? Then the first comes into the yellow jersey. This is one that is in the middle of the Fuentes-Affaire, so a “classical doping-tourist” could be said because there are different regulations in different countries. Then the Tour de France – certainly in pursuit of sporty cleanliness – excludes a Tom Boon because of cocaine consumption, and then the organizers of the now started Austrian cycling tour and present the same Tom Boonen as “superstar” they have enchanted from the hat. During the Tour de France, Boonen is not allowed to start, but with us he is the “Star” of the Austrian cycling tour! - That's not how we can get on with it. I think it is necessary to try to get the backmen on track, but I do think that if you do this seriously, you can't even let the athlete go of duty, because the sportsman is the key to the rearman. If today a sportsman who gets caught up in the doping can just pull himself out of the affair to keep his mouth shut or tell some robber's stories where he's got this stuff, then we won't be able to get access to the rearmen. – That means that we should consider something too. Something that I would like to warn against is, as it were, a general criminalisation of fitness centre operators. That's always a little floating with it. I don't know why you just put it on the fitness center like that? The law pursues two goals. One is to ensure fair competition. If someone there covers himself with any substances and does not participate in a competition, but pumps up the muscles, it has nothing to do with competition in itself. This may be harmful to health, that is right, but you have to think about it, which is not all harmful to health. In which areas will then still be baptized? I don't know, with artists, with managers, with politicians? I don't know where to baptize in which areas. So you have to be a little careful not to put the operators of fitness centers in general as a “doping dealer”. I don't think that this is really a service. I would also be very much in favour - a colleague from the Greens has already mentioned this - of thinking about whether the transformation of the NADA into an authority would be a more sensible way, because it really does not benefit us anything, if we do have a doping fight with loud bruising, but then the lion cannot really bite or not be able to use all the teeth he has. And in the case of NADA, this is unfortunately so. We all look forward to the Beijing Olympic Games, hope that there will be a fair competition and that hits with sporting successes and not are done by clearing up any doping sinisters.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27030	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Mr. Klubobmann, you have a total rest period of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27051	Madam President. High house! You can see what politics can do: The day begins with disputes and new elections discussions – and ends with a five-party legal change. That's good. I now assume that it will end – and do not believe that a crisis in the SPÖ will occur when choosing a folder, and that you will need a new folder in your ranks anyway by the SPÖ, because from Carinthia to Vienna you need to re-order it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – I wish you all the best! Three comments on the five-party law, where all agreed: Yes, it is good that after substance abuse blood doping and gendoping are also diagnosed. And it's good that there's a consensus not to bring the athlete to justice. We would like to see, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Lopatka – you know what we would like to do anyway – a single European directive, because it is not for an athlete to study and take care of the criminal consequences of her doing in every country where they are doing their sport. It is good to note that, in addition to the penalty of the lock of a sportsman, there is also the publication of the names of locked athletes. Overall, we are very satisfied with this change. I also congratulate Mr Jackie Maier as a watchful fighter against the doping, who is always very committed. We by the BZÖ will be very pleased to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27098	It has now been referred to by Mr Lopatka, Secretary of State. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27119	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the fact that there is now a balance sheet – the work of this Federal Government has ended prematurely – in which the positive side of this area is involved, namely the fight against doping, with us doing something together. Doping is one of the very great dangers of sports, and those who do not recognize it do not understand the sport and the sense of sports. It is now – with us in Austria and abroad very positive – the EURO has ended – with hundreds of tests, and all of them have been negative. I say this because I don't let myself believe that athletes can also be successful without being baptized. The EURO has shown this, and this is important, because the sport that is most often practiced in us is football. The Bundesliga started today. – Storm Graz leads 3 : 1 against Rapid, before 15,000 spectators. [[Demonstrative applause by Mr Brosz and Mr Ing. Westenthaler as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] This shows the enthusiasm and the sustainability, because when 15 000 people come in the middle of the summer – 15 300 are exactly – it shows that sports can trigger enthusiasm – and the better if doping is not in play. Policy is a very important part, but politics can only fulfil a part of the tasks. Equally important are the sports organisations that have to assume their responsibilities. Mr Brosz is right: It is a provocation if a coach who has been banned by the ÖSV may be present at other sporting events; if an athlete of the doping is allowed to go to the start in Austria and the relevant association is still looking for arguments for why it has to be allowed. – This is not good for sports, and the sports associations are in the duty to take. But of course it is a third thing – because without sponsoring there is no sport – that even in the economy the awareness grows that there is no willingness by the sponsors to put money into such a sport or in such clubs. What we decide today is necessary because, of course, we are not allowed to act as if everything were all right with us. – We had half a dozen positive doping cases this year too. We have now reorganised the NADA, with a new managing director who himself was Olympic participants who knew the sport very well and was already the head of the sports aid: May. Andreas Schwab. I am very confident that he will make his contribution. I think it is right that we have expanded the crime cases where criminality is possible, especially as regards the possession of doping substances, and that now blood doping and gendoping are clearly taken into account in the law. But this is only the one area for which politics is responsible. It is equally important then to follow the cases of justice with great consequence. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been wondering why we have been pending for two years and we still have no results, although there are a number of indices. I expect to work with the appropriate strictness on the part of the judiciary. Finally, with regard to Beijing, let me say the following: Austria will be represented in Beijing with 60 to 70 athletes. Of course, we are all happy when our athletes come home with medals. With me, however, the joy is at least the same when all athletes who are being tested in Beijing come home with a negative doping test. I very much hope that our athletes will succeed in the double sense of success: on the one hand, sporty, but on the other hand, they will also be able to face this sporting challenge, which is clean and not baptismal. The law that all political groups support here is an important building block. But I am very glad that the agreement has been reached to continue working in a subcommittee, which is a very important area that we can and must resolve at the federal level. We're on a good way. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27212	Mr Wittmann has now come to speak. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27234	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Doping is a matter that will continue to deal with us in the next few years. It's a social problem. As long as we demand maximum performance and the stages at the Tour de France are getting longer and longer and faster, the temptation will be great to gain an advantage. We therefore need strict rules and we need to react quickly. There will always be new doping methods, and there will always be new scientific developments. Therefore, the doping law will deal with us regularly – from time to time. We have now managed to integrate the criminal legislation into a law – not to regulate parts of it in the pharmaceutical law or other laws, but all in a law so that it becomes legible to the athlete and he only needs to look at a law matter. If the WADA code is available and the translation is available, we will also have to adapt the sports part, because the techniques that are presented there as new must also be reintroduced into our law and we must anchor it there as doping techniques. – That is, it is a permanent process. But I also believe that it is important not only to punish the process, the gendoping, the blood doping and all other methods, when they are applied by trainers or doctors to athletes, but it is also important that we have enshrined in this doping law that there must be prevention and information through the anti-doping agency, for the individual sportsman, so that he can already take effective steps against doping in advance. But I would also like to thank the Legislators – Dr. Schittengruber, who is one of the few who deal with and recognize this matter in Austria, and that is not a simple matter. I believe that the law is a good one, but it needs ongoing review and enlargement. I am of the opinion of Mr Brosz, who says that we must also include customs. It cannot be that a car is stopped in which the customs guard detects 80 000 pills of testosterone, and we cannot seize it because we have no customs regulations. – We must take this into account in the next novel and also involve it again. It is also important that we do this before Beijing so that we send a signal to the athletes that doping is not a cavalier crime, but rather a criminal offence, but also the environment of the athletes indicate that we take the fight against doping seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27301	Mrs Mikesch's next speech. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27322	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is really welcome that we today decide to intensify the anti-doping law. But I would like to say very well here from this speaker's point of view: It is also important to deal with this issue, and we should stick to the truth and see how it is when it is pronounced. It's too delicate a subject to go over it and put things in space that aren't true. The following topic, which I think is also one of the most important, is very important to me: Most of the sport takes place in a clean environment. – This too is worth noting! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There are only a few we have to pay attention to. – This should be pointed out very well. It is also very important for me to address the young athletes who are making the leap into these careers. You should really support this one. NADA will certainly be invited in the future to do great educational work in this area, but not only with the young athletes, but also with the parents, who are mostly the path-accompanied. We should thank them most warmly, otherwise sports would not be possible in this way. It is certainly a very important issue on which we must stick. I simply hope that we will still be able to give the youth courage to play sports and win many young people to be on their way for Austria and thus sell Austria abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27377	Mr Neubauer has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27398	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, politics sets the course for a good future for sport, and I am already looking forward to the next games, because of course all these major events always have great role models for youth. – This has only been seen at the EURO. I also looked at the student ligafinal. The enthusiasm of the young kickers there was impressive and certainly equivalent to the enthusiasm for the big stars that then played in the big stadiums. Today we also have to give a proper launch to send a signal for fairness in sport. What is being adopted today with the votes of all the political groups – as Mr Lopatka has already mentioned – also shows that we still have corresponding deficits as regards the national associations or the sports associations. If a daily has been entitled two days ago: Construction site athletics – doping cases, lack of crisis management, then this should actually stimulate us to think, because you already have to say: It helps the best laws we pass here, nothing if we are not able to get the structures under control accordingly! Of these four examples, some have already been mentioned. I can remind her again: Ms Eva-Maria Grad well stands for one of the open construction sites, which drives a completely overshadowed head of association at the edge of ridiculousness. Her supervisor is not less than the already quoted Walter Mayer. There he is. Association apparently no possibility of intervention. The look, on the other hand, is quite devastating, as I mean. The next open construction site is the case of the barrier runner Lichtenegger. He gave the second positive doping sample in 2007. This case has not been completed until today. The case of Susanne Pumper is also open. There was also a positive doping sample twice within a few weeks, and the association remained inactive, and the case was not completed. A positive doping result, which has also been addressed, is that of Slovenian Helena Javornik, who is running for Vienna. This case has caused special excitement in the last few days, because this woman in Carinthia has started and the Kärntner Landesverband has not seen any way to prevent the start of this sportswoman, which has led to the fact that top athletes have refused the start with the argument that one of the dopings is not allowed to go to the start and all the others who devote themselves to fair sports should run with her in the same field. The outside effect is, of course, disastrous, because a moral image is thrown on the body athletics association, which is simple and appalling for the public! It must also be said that there is still no regulation to date, as, for example, samples from the delivery to the analysis can indeed be certainly comprehensible. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very simple process, but it is still not really certain that such operations are clearly detectable and traceable. Manipulation is still possible, and I would be pleased if you simply follow this very simple fact and try to find appropriate guidelines so that we can make sure that no manipulations can take place from the delivery to the actual analysis. That is, the future must belong to those who love sports, and not to those who love themselves – to the detriment of the entire sports business in Austria. Today's decision-making has led us to ensure that Austria's reputation in the field of sport is restored. Others have to ensure that the associations are controlled to ensure that they comply with these laws accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27465	The next item is the speech by Mr Krist. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27487	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! The new anti-doping federal law brings criminal intensifications and for the first time a property penalty regime in the law. Blood doping and gendoping are criminally detected, criminal doping networks can now be effectively combated and persecuted. – This is precisely what our expert Jackie Mayer has formulated at a press conference, and that is nothing to add. We must not forget that in future we must also give great importance to education and prevention. We have already heard today that there is the possibility to carry out appropriate checks in gyms too, that now the executive also has the opportunity to provide official assistance when it comes to: Such suspicions go. It is also very important for us to try to harmonise the criminal anti-doping provisions across Europe, to ensure that our stakeholders who work at European level do so again and again in the discussion process. The sports part is still out. We have actually agreed on a subcommittee across all parties. The law with the relevant provisions will be a challenge for the next government and for a next sports committee when WADA sends us the remaining parts. Finally, I would like to thank all the members of all the groups of the Sports Committee for their excellent and constructive cooperation. A very special thanks to our Jackie Mayer, our expert and advocate for this anti-doping federal law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – No doubt Jackie deserved this applause. I wish our athletes and the supervisor staff successful and beautiful games in Beijing and as many medals as possible for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27535	Mr Dr. Eder has now come to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27556	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With this law, we are taking a further step in implementing more efficient and stringent anti-doping measures, perhaps at first glance a little attention and in stages, but, as I mean, very consistently – in stages mainly due to adjustments, voting and compliance with international provisions. Another law is in the house in autumn. Now, it is important to clarify the criminal provisions – including the involvement and involvement of blood doping and now also gendoping – as well as the legal basis for the publication of locked athletes and the possibility of police intervention in the controls. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we have to deal with doping, there are still unsolved problems in practice. We've heard of that before. They raise fundamental questions. Just one example: the acute medical emergency treatment of an athlete with a means on the doping list, in front of a competition – for example, a few days before that. In the meantime, the medical commission can hardly decide on a start. She may be able to lock ex post the athlete in a positive sample, and I think that is a problem. There may be a hotline from the treating doctor to the Medical Commission – a proposal from the Committee. I can also imagine a medical report that is evidenced by a medically educated professional. – By the way, this is an example of how the whole system cannot function without a minimum of confidence in such complete legislation. On the principle of leaving athletes unlit by criminal law, nothing has been changed this time, and I believe that this is also a good thing – at least as long as the intensified measures of an evaluation are resisted and we are not, as has been so often, caught up with reality. Overall, however, this is a very good law, to which we can all agree good conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27599	Mr Köfer has now come to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27620	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, through all of Austria, not only by Carinthia, the cycling tour, and thousands of spectators, including many cycling enthusiasts, will strongly support the heroes of the country road in their ride across the Großglockner in my home district of Spittal. And it's just cycling that has come into the headlines in recent years through the doping scandals, including this famous “Quick Step” team of world champions and Olympic winner Paolo Bettini, who participates in this year's Austrian cycling tour. Therefore, it is welcome to announce that the organizers of the Austrian cycling tour already announced more stringent doping checks during the tour – since the demand of the president of the Austrian Cycling Association, Otto Flum, for the cycling association to be missed the best anti-doping program that is possible in Austria, and this should be valid for all Austrian top sports. After the uncanny events at the 2006 Olympic Games, it is glorious that something has happened. Thus, in June 2007, this anti-doping law was adopted by the votes of all parliamentary parties, and as a result the NADA, the National Anti-Doping Agency, was established. If Parliament will now decide on this intensification, it is only to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27653	Mrs Stadler is speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27675	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This government template closes further gaps in the field of anti-doping, especially in the criminal field. It will respond to new insights in order to improve the mastery of current problems. The anti-doping sector will continue to accompany us politically, and we will be constantly required, but the many athletes who do clean sports deserve to be very committed here. This decision is also a timely and important sign in front of the Beijing Olympics. However, our future task will also be to inform young athletes, but also their parents and supervisors in good time and preventively about doping, to accompany them in their beginnings, so that we can also work more preventively in this regard and confront young athletes with doping. I would like to thank everyone, especially our sports speakers Jacky Maier and Peter Haubner, who have been very committed to negotiating this proposal and who have achieved a good result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27717	I call Mr Steier. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27738	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2007 Anti-Doping Federal Act concentrates on all judicial criminal provisions relating to doping involving blood doping and the withdrawal of the current administrative penalty, the creation of a legal basis for the Independent Doping Control Agency for the publication of athletes who have been blocked due to a doping procedure and the creation of a legal basis for the use of police bodies in checks under § 68a of the Medicines Act. – Ladies and gentlemen, this has made an important step in the fight against doping! At the same time, this law maintains the principle that sportsmen who do not themselves are not punishable. Finally, these are effective criminal provisions that are directed against the backmen and the environment of athletes, such as doctors, trainers and supervisors, without criminalizing the athletes themselves. In the future, we also want to work together in this direction, to harmonise criminal anti-doping provisions at European level and, by many previous speakers, to enforce a number of points at national level. I thank and wish you a clean sport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27772	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27793	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With this novel to the Anti-Doping Federal Act 2007, an important step has been taken towards a comprehensive re-regulation in the fight against doping. Doping not only violates one of the basic prizes in every sport, the fairness, doping also endangers the health of athletes, often delivers unbearable dependency relationships and subsequently damages the entire sports industry. The current changes to the Anti-Doping Federal Act bring important improvements. A lot. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said, and all this must be underlined. This is a good law, ladies and gentlemen, which does enough for sports and protects our athletes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27830	I call Mr Zweytick. 1 minute desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27854	Madam President. High house! It has already been said a lot about the anti-doping law, and I can only say: This law is the best at all, so is my impression, and I would particularly like to congratulate Mr Reinhold Lopatka on it. There are rarely any laws that are so excellent and have such a quality, and I thank all the committed members of the committee for this: of course Peter Haubnerand Jacky Mayer – and many others have already been mentioned. Austria is also an example in this regard throughout Europe! Here's Europe's easy game: You actually need to adopt this anti-doping law only, that would do the whole sport and all the people doing sports very well. The Secretary of State has said that the intermediate position in storm against Rapid is 3 : 1 – it has remained – but we have won the match against the doping with 5 : 0! Since it is a unanimous five-party proposal, I congratulate all parties on this: This is a law for sports and sportsmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27890	Mrs Schasching. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 3 minutes desired speaking time. Ladies and gentlemen, your group's total residence time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27911	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's anti-doping law is a good law. I would like to thank all those who have contributed, and I thank them for their unanimous adoption. Since I am going to relinquish my mandate with the day tomorrow, I am allowed to address a few words to you – a few words of farewell and a few words of thanks. In future, I will devote very much to the educational tasks in the country of Lower Austria and focus on this task to 100 percent. Since my fishing visit in 1999, I have really devoted myself with passion, especially to sports policy and policy on education and education, and I have always represented these two special topics with intensity and have tried to bring about many, many unanimous decisions with you, especially in the Sports Committee. I would like to thank all the employees of this House and all those who help to ensure that our work here in the House works so unchallenged, and those who assist us with their competence, kindness and willingness to help. Thanks also to my colleagues for many constructive discussions and joint initiatives, especially in the field of sport. At the end of such a political era, which could be discussed in the House, of course, a few thoughts are also put in the direction, which has remained open, because there is still a lot to be done in sport. We have to take care of the case that the gambling monopoly will not be held. Despite the additional funding for sport, we have to ensure that the thousands of sports clubs in organized sports also receive a basic support to a sufficient degree. The administration for the allocation of project resources urgently needs simplification. All of this could not be brought to an end now, but I am glad that this will start a future federal government and bring it back on track. There was no longer the time to regulate things for school and sport, but it is especially necessary for the youngest in our society to integrate more movement into their everyday lives, because sports, ladies and gentlemen, is much more than circulation and sweating! Sport is an important part of health, disease prevention, integration, socialization of youth and violence prevention! The backpack to create better legal conditions for this important pillar of our society, I once hung and took away one day, and I started to work it out with you. I am continuing to give him hope that in a new government constellation – in addition to many other important tasks that are certainly to be addressed and which need to be done – despite all of this, there will be enough commitment and will to address these problems that I have outlined, and to do them positively for the benefit of the people and, above all, for the benefit of the children in our country. I thank you for many constructive discussions and wish you all – and above all my group – all the best for the coming time! We'll pack it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e27967	Ladies and gentlemen, we too wish you every good thing for your future activity! Good luck and great commitment! No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 561 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Maier, Peter Haubner, Brosz, Kickl, Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. Since there is only one amendment tabled, I shall immediately vote on the draft law in 561 of the Supplements, together with the title and receipt, in the version of the amendment or amendment just mentioned. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft law at third reading to have a similar sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. [[21:52:46]] 23. Point Choosing a Folderin
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e28032	We arrive at the 23rd. Agenda item. In view of the withdrawal of Members of the National Council, the choice of a folder must be made. The proposed election of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group is on Katharina Pfeffer. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. No objection is raised. We'll get to the choice. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the election proposal of the Social Democratic Group. – This is unanimously accepted. Thus, Ms. Katharina Pepper is chosen as a folder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[21:53:59]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e28107	Ladies and gentlemen, we come to a number of votes – not only at this session, but also at the next allocation meeting. I draw attention to the fact that it will take some time and I am looking for appropriate attention. We shall first proceed to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Westenthaler, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment No 262/A by Mr Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on a Federal Act containing the XXIII. The legislative period of the National Council is terminated prematurely, a period of until 9. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Member. Steinhauser, the Justice Committee for Reporting on Parliament's motion for a resolution 816/A. Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code, a period of until 9. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request by Mrs Mag. Lunacek, the Justice Committee for Reporting on Amendment 3/A by Member Mag. Lunacek, colleagues on a federal law establishing the Federal Act on the Civil Pact and the General Civil code and other laws are amended, a period of until 9. ==References== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Mandak, ladies and gentlemen, to report to the Family Committee on Amendment 357/A by Mr Mandak, colleagues, on a federal law establishing a four-week exemption right for fathers after the birth of their child (father's month) a period of until 9. ==References== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Mr Sburny, colleagues, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 15/A by Mr Sburny, colleagues in relation to a federal law amending the Party Law, a period of until 9. ==References== I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Brigid Weinzinger, ladies and gentlemen, the Equal Treatment Committee for Reporting on Amendment 60/A by Mr Mag. Brigid Weinziger, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the party law, the club financing law and the publicity promotion law (promoting the participation of women in politics) a period of up to 9. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on amendment 337/A by honourable Members Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen concerning a federal law on the amount of the minimum wage (Minimum Wage Act) to be fixed at 9 p.m. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the request made by Members Dr. Zinggl, colleagues, to the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 643/A by Dr. Zinggl, colleagues on a federal law whereby the Federal Law on the Return of Art Items from the Austrian Federal Museums and Collections and the Law of 1. On 1 August 1895, a period of until 9 August 1895 on the judicial procedure is amended in civil disputes. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[21:58:20]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e28292	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 839/A to 853/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 4719/J to 4754/J were also raised. Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-08-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00065_d8e28313	I also announce that in the context of the Self-employed Request 839/A on the implementation of a special file of the Court of Auditors' conduct, concerning the financial transaction with the Deutsche Bank (Portfolio Credit Default Swaps or Hybrid CDOs and Cross-Border Leasing Business) and the institutions of ÖBB Holding AG dealing with these transactions, as well as their daughters and granddaughters, a request of 20 delegates within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 10 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
