ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4608	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take your seats. I'll open the 6th. Meeting of the National Council. I particularly welcome our President-in-Office, Dr Heinz Fischerin, to our centre. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 4. Meeting and the official minutes of the 5th meeting Meeting of 25 March 1990 In November 2008, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Mrs Hagenhofer and Mr Kickl have been reported to be prevented. [[09:04:56]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4654	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that Deputies Doris Bures, Mag. Norbert Darabos, Werner Faymann, Mag. Andreas Schieder, Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, Dr. Johannes Hahn, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Christine Marek, Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner, Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllund Dr. Michael Spindelegger on their mandates. The mandate given by Mrs Doris Bures was given to Mrs Laura Rudas and her mandate by the honourable Member Mag. Christine Muttonen. Instead of Mr Mag. Norbert Darabos was Mr Mag. Johann Maier and instead of Deputies Werner Faymannthe Deputies appointed Gabriele Binder-Maier to the National Council. The mandate of the honourable Member Mag. Andreas Schieder was assigned to Member Wolfgang Katzian and his mandate to Mrs. Dr. Sabine Oberhauser. Instead of Mrs Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter was appointed to the National Council by Mr Wolfgang Großruck. The mandate given by Mr Dr. Johannes Hahn was given to Mrs Gabriele Tamandl and to Mr Reinhold Lopatkadem, Member of Parliament, Mr Jochen Pack. The mandate given by Mrs Christine Marek, who had been rejected, was given to Mrs Magistrate. Gertrude Aubauer; Mr Reinhold Mitterlehner has received Mr Ing. Norbert Kapeller and that of Deputie Dipl.-Ing. Josef PröllMr Deputies Dr. Erwin Rasinger. The mandate given by Dr Michael Spindelegger, Member of the European Parliament, was also assigned to Johannes Juryenschlager. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and calling for her name by the female writer, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4846	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” By name call by the writer Mag. Lohfeyer, the Members mentioned below, make the fishing observation with the words “I praise”: from the SPÖ: May. Christine Muttonen, Mag. Johann Maier, Gabriele Binder-Maier, Dr. Sabine Oberhauser ; of the ÖVP: Wolfgang Großruck, Gabriele Tamandl, Jochen Pack, Mag. Gertrude Auber, Ing. Norbert Kapeller, Dr. Erwin Rasinger, Johannes Juistenschlager.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4943	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst and wish them all the best! [[General condolences.]] [[09:08:20]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4971	The following letter was received from the Federal Chancellor: 'Dear Madam President! I have the honour to inform myself that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 2. December 2008, GZ 300,000/7-BEV/08, the Federal Government responsible for the continuation of the administration as well as the State Secretary at the Federal Chancellor's Office, the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs, the State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Finance, the State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology and the State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. With the best greetings Werner Faymann.” I use this opportunity to express a warm word of thanks to the exodus members of the Federal Government as well as to the State Secretary-General and to express recognition for their activities in the service of the Republic of Austria. Furthermore, there is a letter from the Federal Chancellor concerning the appointment of the members of the new Federal Government. 'Dear Madam President! I have the honour to inform myself that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 2. December 2008, GZ 300.100/08-BEV/08, has appointed me Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act. Furthermore, according to Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, on my proposal, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll as Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance, Dr. Michael Spindelegger as Federal Minister for European and International Affairs, Mr. Alois Stöger, Federal Minister for Health, Family and Youth, Ms. Maria Fekter, Federal Minister for the Interior, Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich, Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management, Mr Mag. Norbert Darabos as Federal Minister of State Defense, Mr. Rudolf Hundstorfer as Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, Dr. Claudia Schmied as Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture, Ms. Doris Bures as Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner as Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, Dr. Johannes Hahn as Federal Minister for Science and Research and under Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 78(1) of the Federal Constitution Act Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek appointed Federal Minister without a portfolio. In addition, pursuant to Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, Mr. Josef Ostermayer has appointed as State Secretary, in conjunction with Article 78(2), and has given me support in the management and parliamentary representation, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka and Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder has been appointed State Secretary and has been assigned to the Federal Minister of Finance for Management and Parliament for support in management and parliamentary representation, as well as to Ms Christine Marek as Secretary of State and has been assigned to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour to support the management and parliamentary representation. Finally, in accordance with Article 70(1), the Federal President, in conjunction with Article 77(4) of the Federal Constitutional Act, has entrusted Federal Minister Dr. Johannes Hahn with the provisional management of the Federal Ministry of Justice. Best regards Werner Faymann.” ==References====External links== On 28 September 2008 the newly elected National Council. Since October 2008 and after the government negotiations a new German government has been praised, there is nothing in the way of constructive cooperation between the National Council and the Federal Government. I assume that the committees, as in the plenary session of the National Council, will work effectively in all the differences in content and debates on it. I wish all the members of the Federal Government and the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State the best success for her work in the service of the Republic of Austria. [[09:12:16]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5155	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[09:12:39]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5286	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Mr Brosz has requested that the Financial Committee report on Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek's motion for a resolution, which amends the Income Tax Act in 1988, be limited to 10. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. [[09:13:09]] Let's go into the agenda. Today's meeting will be held live by ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 13.15 a.m. to 5 p.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5322	For the debate on the Federal Government's declaration, a day-block period of 10 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 135 minutes, FPÖ 120 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 105 minutes. The following speaking time arrangements were made for the transfer of the meeting by the ORF from 9.40 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 1.15 p.m. to 5 p.m.: Federal Chancellor 50 minutes; one speech per group of 13 minutes, Vice-Cancellor 25 minutes; one word per group of 6 minutes; one member of government 4 minutes; one word per group with 4 minutes; one member of government 4 minutes. Then 10 rounds each with a word message per group of 3 minutes and a member of the government with 4 minutes and finally one word message per group with 3 minutes, thus a total of 403 minutes. Before the beginning of the previous round, after consultation with the club presidents, the President-in-Office shall distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television season. The speakers' series in the first round is: FPÖ, SPÖ, BZÖ, ÖVP and Greens; the speakers' series in the second round reads: FPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ, SPÖ and Greens. From the third round, we shall speak after the strength of the political groups. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television broadcast. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:15:02]] 1. Point Election of the Second President
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5374	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. In line with the President-in-Office of the Council, on this item on the agenda, I propose that a debate be held at a speaking time of 3 minutes per group. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. There is a proposal for an election on Fritz Neugebauer. We are now going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5420	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of this proposal by the EIA. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Otherwise there is a new election!]] Mr Neugebauer is not an unwritten leaf. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] We expect Fritz Neugebauer to use his weight for Parliament, for the interests of this House and for the expansion of democracy. We believe that this will certainly be a good team in the presidential and hope for a good cooperation. Our support is yours!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5493	Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5514	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! A few weeks ago, we found Mr. Dr. Michael Spindelegger has recently been elected Second President of the National Council. Dr. Spindelegger has now been proposed, on a proposal from the Federal Party chairman of the Austrian People's Party Josef Pröll, for the function of the Foreign Minister and also yesterday by the Federal President. Mr Foreign Minister, I congratulated you very much on this appointment. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On behalf of the Austrian People's Party, I can propose Fritz Neugebauer as the successor to Dr. Spindelegger's election. To introduce Fritz Neugebauer hier was to carry owls to Athens, therefore only briefly two, three sentences to his person. Fritz Neugebaueris an experienced and committed employee representative, who has demonstrated in many, many rounds of negotiations that he is committed to the interests of workers in particular. Fritz Neugebauer has also proved that he is a consensusable and social-partnership person – and that he is above all a man with hand-beat quality. And precisely these virtues he will also bring into the new function. I would therefore ask all of you to express your confidence in Fritz Neugebauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5574	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5596	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals recognize the right of the political groups, depending on the strength and the outcome of the elections, to vote in favour of the first, the second and the third presidents, so to have a right of proposal. The Austrian People's Party has, of course, a right to this place two here with the second place it has achieved at the previous NR election; we recognise this and therefore do not want to drive any political “games”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] – Mr Stadler, who always likes to play games. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... Challenge on saber or gun?]] We won't do that! We recognize the achievements of Fritz Neugebauer, who is well-known here as a Member of Parliament and in many areas is a very controversial personality, where we have quite a wide variety of opinions and have already had intense discussions and debates, but, Mr Neugebauer, you have your merits – and you know what you are doing; that is good, even if we do not always agree. Mr Neugebauer, you are from the official sector, and you have not always been so successful – this is just a different assessment – because when it came to flexibility schemes or the hackler rule, for example, you have not always been able to enforce yourself in your own group. You may need stronger support from us liberals in the future, but we appreciate you, Mr Neugebauer, as a person. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We hope that, as the second President, you will exercise your duty – and we assume it – responsibly and objectively across party borders, where we hope that all three presidents will do so and that the Presidents will also strengthen parliamentaryism and that we will achieve a common appreciation of Parliament. This is the expectation that we have to the Presidents. From our page you will receive the support.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5654	Mr Ing. Westenthaler is now speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5676	Ladies and gentlemen! If one has observed with what “infrastructure” and what “commitment” Clubobmann Cap has here one-silverly suggested to support the candidates of the ÖVP, then one has already noticed the touch of “new parliamentarism” that is so to speak, borne by a government agreement that tells you, Dr. Cap, what you have to do. Mr Klubobmann Cap, you will not be able to choose how to vote here in the future. Then: Woulding You don't support the candidates of the ÖVP today – do you know what it would be? – then we would have new elections! This is the government agreement that sets it down, and that is why we say quite clearly to the BZÖ: A situation has occurred that is truly unique: A government chooses how Parliament has to act – and writes it into the Government Convention; writes in that the government has ended, Mr Klubobmann Cap, if you vote differently in committees or here in the House than one of the two coalition parties wants. They eliminate means of direct democracy by holding: no popular surveys, no more referendums! – yes, you can’t even make a request again! It is no longer a matter of voting, but the government decides that Members of the two government parties should not even make a request again! That is why we are of the opinion: We need a new Parliament, a Parliament with a backbone, with persuasion and with a sense of responsibility! We need such a Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We believe – I think we are not wrong – that we in Mr Fritz Neugebauerdoch also have an ally when it comes to producing these characteristics of a new Parliament, one with a backbone and also with a new self-confidence, because Mr Neugebauer has been a trade unionist throughout his history, in his representation as a trade unionist – for 40 years, for seven years in Parliament, 17 years of GÖD's chairman – never anyone who has been gnawed. You have to say that clearly. Mr Neugebauer, that's why we're getting it. You, too, from our group today, have confidence in the advance, because we believe that you are not only a tough, stand-alone negotiator, but also a person who, with the same commitment as he has given to his officials, will also work for the independence of this Parliament. That is why we support you, Mr President. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] We know in you someone who owns a handshake quality that stands up to what he has agreed. They are also one of the workers' representatives; it is good if a worker's representative also leads to the highest state functions. We wish you, Mr Neugebauer, all the best for this activity, we support your choice and hope that you will also justify our legal trust in you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5761	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5782	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The right of the ÖVP to make a proposal for the election of the Second NR President is undisputed. But they could have made it much easier for us. We have a government in which you don't have to say much about women's share. The members of the Federal Government sit behind me, the pictures speak for themselves; but they are not all there yet. The proportion of women in this government has fallen significantly, and the proportion of women in Parliament has fallen significantly, except for the Greens, in most groups! From then on, it would have been a sign to nominate and elect a woman for the office of the Second President of the National Council. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have, of course, known Mr Neugebauer for a long time. We know that Mr Neugebauer worked as an educational speaker for the ÖVP during the last legislative period, but one - let us say so - we could not really feel a special spirit of reform with him. Although there were several subcommittees, what happened in education policy cannot be described as a major reform, it was rather a standstill. And this leads me to the point that you have also raised publicly, namely on the issue of minority rights in Parliament. That is a very important point! The minority rights here in this House must be extended. I hope there will be agreement on this. But if agreements between ÖVP and SPÖ have apparently been reached in advance, what this is supposed to be like, without the involvement of the opposition parties, if there is apparently already a consensus on how this will look like in the matter of investigation committee, where as opposition we will then get a ready solution on the table, according to the motto “Fresh or die!”, I will tell you: So the negotiations on a reform of the Rules of Procedure in this House have not been conducted in recent years! The last GMO reform was unanimously decided, and there has really been negotiations between government and opposition. That is what we expect from this reform of the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When I looked at the Coalition Convention, I was no longer sure whether something should come in this respect at all, because it says that everything must be decided together. I can remember: In the last legislative period, we had the situation that the ÖVP still had the blocking minority and could prevent a change in the Rules of Procedure. – Now that’s not the case anymore! So I assume that this is a point to decide on this House – and not the government! Mr Westenthaler is right if he believes that the scheme in the Government Convention is unworthy. Parliament should have the opportunity to exercise rights freely. By the way, we had the case – and you have not mentioned this – during the last week that there was a vote in a committee in this House, namely in the Immunities Committee, where the extradition of Mr Westenthal was due to the suspicion of resistance to official violence and to physical injury, in which the two government groups voted differently. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There is no such crime! Criminal law!]] The absurdity of this government agreement is already evident. Then: Finally, if Westenthaler had not been extradited, because it had been voted differently, then the government would have failed today if the government agreement had been taken seriously. In view of this one can only say: Please make a plea for minority rights, for an open Parliament! That's what we want from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5862	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be elected by a vote. There is a desire to carry out the elections in election cells. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. I am now briefly interrupting the meeting to create the technical conditions for the elections in election cells. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5909	I'll start the interrupted session again. The preparations are over. Ladies and gentlemen! The minutes to be used shall be issued by the rapporteur or the scribe by the members of the Parliament's Directorate on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. For the election only the official voting paper shall be used. In this case, the name of the desired candidate must be written. After completing the poll in the election cell, it must be thrown in the envelope in the supplied urn. I would now ask the honourable Members to receive their votes in the name of Mrs Schreiber or Mr Schreibert and then to go to one of the voting cells. Please, Mrs. Writer, start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5955	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote has ended. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the vote. I am interrupting the session for this purpose for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5993	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election: Members cast: 180; of which 162. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 82. There were 124 votes in favour of Mr Neugebauer, 38 others. [[Generally persistent condolences.]] [[The representatives of the ÖVP are congratulating.]] [[Members of the Federal Government and members of the Federal Government go to Members of the Neugebauer and congratulate them.]] [[The remaining 38 votes were for Members: Mag. Aubauer: 1; J. Auer: 1; Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager: 1; Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 1; Großruck: 1; Head: 1; Mag. Molterer: 1; Dr. Plassnik: 16; Dr. Schüssel: 11; Mag. Stadger: 1; Steibl: 2; Wöiger: 1.]] Mr.Fritz Neugebauer has thus been elected Second President of the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you if you will accept the election.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6083	I would like to thank you for your approval and accept the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6099	I congratulate you very much and look forward to a good cooperation. [[General condolences.]] [[10:12:19]] 2. Point Declaration by the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6131	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item: Declaration by the Federal Government. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. A speaking time of 50 minutes has been agreed. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6161	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President of the National Council! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The new Austrian Federal Government faces major political challenges, especially in economic terms. The economic researchers agree that economic growth will slow down and the real risk of zero growth – or even the risk of shrinking our economic performance. This scenario presents not only Austria, but Europe and the whole world with great challenges. To address these challenges, it is necessary to act decisively, quickly and jointly. However, it should also be noted that, according to a consistent forecast of international experts, the global economy will continue to grow by around 2% in the coming years. Compared to the exorbitant growth of the past years – on average over the last five years, the world economy has grown by 5 percent per year – this has a modest effect. Nevertheless, in view of this prediction, one must clearly say: We can be a little more optimistic than the commentators want to let us know! In the current situation, three main issues are asked: an objective analysis of the situation, rapid and sufficient measures, especially in order to safeguard labour and income, as well as a Community action. The current global financial crisis requires more than ever the consistent action of states and central banks. In the European Union, Member States are currently taking different ways and speeds. Some member countries, like Austria, have quickly decided on extensive recovery measures for the economy, while others hesitate both in the expansion of state investment and in the discharge of taxpayers. Some Member States rely on a reduction in excise duties, others on a reduction in income tax. Renowned economic researchers are currently proposing very different measures to reduce recession as short as possible. However, there are central points of agreement: The central banks now have to provide banks with significantly more cash reserves. This has been done quickly and consistently both in the US and in the European Union. There is also agreement that a new global financial system can not only be based on the US dollar, that a new global financial structure must be developed, which also puts the financing of developing countries on a stable footing, and that there is a need for uniform rules in a global financial world to reduce the emergence of new financial bubbles in the future. The most important decision concerns the extent of control and the new rules in an internationalised economy. Here the most recognized economists – for example, the Nobel Prize winner Paul A. Samuelson – propose a “way of the middle”. Then: A deregulation, according to Samuelson, as handled in the United States, led us straight into today's crisis. On the other hand: Overly long-term regulation of the financial and economic sectors prevents innovation. Of course, it is important to mention what led the international financial markets to the near crash. Let me quote the confessing friend of America and an old master of European politics, Helmut Schmidt, who said at the very beginning of the crisis: “There is a lack of transparency on Wall Street, but there is also a moral deficit.” – Mr Westenthaler, I believe he has never met. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not only there! Also at Ballhausplatz!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Helmut Schmidt also said: “The politicians in Washington did not notice what was going on, they did not see through the development. That's why she's in debt. But they are less concerned with a moral deficit than with a lack of insight and action." The moral deficit of the markets and the shortage of insight and action must be Europe, Austria and thus also this Austrian Federal Government must oppose itself. This requires clear instructions for action: The misunderstood concept of freedom – priority for profit maximisation, bets on falling or rising courses, impenetrable financial products – must be presented with clear rules. There is a need for clear target agreements for the policy of the coming years. The very first must be: The criterion of success of politics must be man – not turnover or profit. Especially in these days, we must be able to mention those achievements by name, which are the basis of broad prosperity and economic success: Our response to the crisis of the financial and world economy must once again be to secure our solidarity systems and to maintain them financially. Especially in times of crisis: Make sure it's achieved. Austria has a soundly funded health and pension system, and this must remain the case in the future! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Our response to the crisis must be to take responsibility for individual workers and responsibility for people on the logic of the market. We give more stringent rules to the markets so that they can fulfil their core task – to create prosperity. As a result, work needs to be given a higher priority even in the economic balance sheets. One thing is especially dear to my heart: Our response to the crisis must also be to ward off cheap debt allocations. I warn those who hit this crisis most violently to put the blame on it. No worker in this country – regardless of whether he owns an Austrian passport or not – is guilty of the crisis of the financial markets! No employee is guilty of recession! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Say no one!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Say no one! Who said that?]] The way of the middle is to promote performance and success. But it also means providing protection where it is necessary. Performance and competition are elements without which a market economy cannot function. We confess ourselves to performance and competition. Whether a state, whether an economy is successful, however, decides on the ability to support those who need our help. The Austrian economic path of the past decades proves: There is no wealth without excellence and without competition. But competition and excellence for themselves do not yet make a working community. The principle of success is the establishment of solidarity. We, the Austrian Federal Government, have made this solidarity the guiding principle of our activity for the next few years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This Austrian government is also showing through its own personalities, which will be particularly important in the near future. It will be a matter of not throwing overboard that principle, which made Austria one of the ten most prosperous countries in the world, in times of crisis. This is the principle of negotiation, not dispute, the principle of eye-to-eye, not the commuting of extreme positions, the principle of joint decision-making rather than the dictatorship of a group, the principle of compensation and not of opposition, in short: the principle of Austrian social society, which has proved to be a success model for decades. If you are looking for a balance between two positions, you must have formulated your position clearly before. Both partners in this government coalition have their respective position. There are differences here, and that's a good thing. But what connects politicians in this Federal Government is the will to work together and the willingness to compromise politically. To find a common denominator is the essence of democracy. I am convinced that if two parties make a common denominator on all issues, then their power is not only to multiply by two but at least by four. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] The principle of the common denominator is also applicable to all other groups and actors. The challenges of the coming months and years, namely supporting the economy, securing the labour market, the health and pension system, investing in education, require partnerships at all levels: Partnerships with the federal states, for example, in terms of health and education; with the cities and communities when it comes to childcare or infrastructure; with the senior associations and the economy when it comes to pensions; with the doctors, the teachers, the parents, with the parties represented in the National Council, which are not members of the Federal Government; with the media that critically accompany our work. The challenge of economic support affects all economic nations alike. It will also be a special challenge for the European Union. The Union, as well as Austria, will have to advance the objectives of a stable labour market, the objectives of a social, an employee union. SPÖ and ÖVP have decided to accept these challenges in a joint federal government. The two partners have already demonstrated in the weeks following the National Council election that they have recognized the legitimate expectations of the Austrians. But it is also a question of establishing the problems and working quickly on common solutions. Now the precise work is the command of the hour – with a focus on fast requirements and with a view to the medium distance. We must do everything in the next future to support the Austrian economy in dealing with the crisis, stabilising the economy and maintaining jobs. However, it is equally necessary to strengthen the purchasing power of the Austrians, since, in addition to investment, the maintenance of domestic demand is the most important support of the economy. The first economic package we decided a few weeks ago includes important measures to promote the medium-sized economy. By 2012, € 1 billion is budgeted annually, of which € 700 million is intended for additional investments, such as railway investments, supplemented by the SME Fund and increased construction savings. For the next two years, we have also agreed on an economic package of €1.9 billion. This will include investment incentives for companies in the form of an early depreciation of € 570 million. And it is also crucial to increase public demand, for example through projects of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft by € 850 million, which are preferred, and thus to set essential impulses for the Austrian economy and thus for its promotion. In addition, € 100 million will be made available for thermal rehabilitation and € 75 million for regional employment programmes. These two economic packages alone will ensure growth and employment. They support a Europe-wide economic package, which includes measures of €200 billion. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] These efforts will then bear fruit, even though individual citizens will notice that this increase in purchasing power is a particular concern, such as family support, so that more income is available to individual citizens. The new Federal Government has therefore decided to prefer tax reform. ==References== ==References====External links== More than €2.2 billion is intended for the discharge of all taxpayers, especially the medium-sized sector. We will ensure that taxes can only be paid from an income of €11 000 in the future. For the best earners, the annual maximum tax savings will be 1 350 €. In addition to the tax reform, the discharge for families and children is another focus of the new Federal Government. 500 million € will be made available for this. This allows the introduction of a child allowance of € 220 per child, the increase in the amount of child drop-off, the deductibility of child care costs, and the tax benefit of employers who contribute to the care of children of their employees. The tax reform and relief of families will help significantly increase the available income. In concrete terms, our measures mean that about one single parent with two children will be relieved by €1,700 a year, a family with two children, where both parents work, by €2,500 a year. With the economic measures, tax reform and family relief, the Federal Government is setting a major impetus to lead Austria safely and without being rejected by economically difficult times. However, the Federal Government is also aware that budgetary discipline must not be disregarded that it is a matter of creating a balanced budget over the economic cycle. It is therefore also necessary to provide for consolidation measures which make a medium-term contribution. The President of the Court of Auditors and the Chairman of the Govern ment Committee have made proposals in joint fields of activity which they have defined to contribute to the administrative reform and to the reduction of bureaucracy. These proposals range from the elimination of double-tracks in the administration to administrative taxation, financial compensation, health care, schooling, science and funding to the Federal personnel policy. The Federal Government takes these proposals seriously. A working group consisting of the Minister of Finance, two heads of state, economic researchers and myself will draw up concrete proposals in the first quarter of next year. However, let us be aware that the consolidation and continuation of an administrative reform can only succeed if all contribute together. This concerns the covenant, the countries, the cities, the municipalities. Only in a joint effort will we be able to make savings, eliminate double-tracks, use the necessary resources that will be free to use in the right place. A central concern of the Federal Government is the safeguarding and reforming of the health care that is so important to the Austrians. In fact, ensuring and financing a strong public health system is a top priority for us. Rehabilitation of the health insurance system must be addressed. Overall, health insurance expenditure and revenue in the health insurance sector have developed considerably, leading to a precarious financial situation for some institutions. We have already decided on initial measures in this House, such as the halving of VAT on medicines, and a certain relief for the health insurance companies. This path must continue in partnership with the health insurance companies, the federal states, the doctors, the pharmacies and the pharmaceutical industry. However, I would also like to say that this will require a corresponding degree of solidarity from all the partners involved. We want to take the necessary money from federal resources and use it fairly and purposefully. This must be done without burden to patients at the centre of our efforts. The restriction of prescription fees to be paid by patients at 2% of net income, introduced at the beginning of this year, already relieves over 200 000 people. We also make a clear commitment here that there must be no new restraints. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We know that everything in the field of hospitals and, rightly, also in the public debate is always called for, on the question of health insurance and the financing of health insurance companies, that these issues can only be solved in close cooperation with the countries. In accordance with the existing agreements, we will concentrate on them and first look at them and determine whether the money spent in the hospital sector is used properly and then draw conclusions together with the countries in a second step. It would be easy to promise one or another here. However, we must ensure that the partner that is necessary for this and that the countries are sufficiently involved in the discussion. That is why we have set a timetable here which begins with the financing of health insurance funds as the first step. With regard to health promotion and prevention, national health targets are to be developed and formulated for the first time, which massively expand occupational health promotion. The focus of our health system must and will be on patients. For example, there should be transparent waiting time management, as well as better opening hours, accessibility at night in the settled area and the possibility of direct delivery of real and chronically ill patients by social security providers. The hospital area and the area of the established doctors need to be better coordinated. In the field of child and youth health, we plan a better supply of medical services, especially at the end of the day and on Sundays and holidays. In order to be able to offer these benefits to our children and our youth as much as possible and to give them the basis for a healthy life, we will develop a health strategy for young people working in employment and develop the healthy school project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will also devote increased attention to women's health. In order to maintain and further develop existing quality in health care, a quality report sets out measurable quality objectives for all supply areas. It is only right and cheap that the public hand, which finances a health system, also develops the quality standards for this system and also implements them together with the partners already quoted. A key pillar in the health system is, of course, also employees. Here we will develop and modernise the existing careers as well as ensure a stronger permeability between the different occupations. The health situation of people working in health care, especially those who are already older, must not be forgotten. As I said earlier, securing jobs is a major concern of the Federal Government. Today, especially in international comparison, we have a very good situation on the labour market. This is reflected in a very high level of employment and low unemployment. However, the foreseeable economic development will also have a significant impact on the Austrian labour market. Unemployment is above all a social problem, but it has enormous economic consequences. It is therefore particularly important to open up new and additional employment potential, to prepare both workers and companies for structural changes, to support these changes in dealing with them, and, above all, to make them more preventive, that is, preventive, to do everything possible to prevent the threat of unemployment. Each additional unemployed person is burdened by the Solidar system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Our common task is therefore also to put in place, in addition to those labour market policies, measures to keep people who are at risk of unemployment in their businesses as far as possible or to employ them close to business. We must pay particular attention to youth employment. Young people need to be integrated as smoothly as possible from school into the employment system. A guaranteed vocational training is intended to enable sustainable working careers. Our youth is the most important potential for the future for our society and, of course, for our economy. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Whoever saves on youth employment will play the future of our economy. With the training guarantee, which we have jointly proposed, we have taken a course which we will continue to pursue consistently. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The training guarantee measures must therefore be implemented quickly – above all in advance of the expansion of over-company training workshops. We will provide the necessary resources for the future. But our efforts will not be limited to youth employment, but rather to active labour market policies as a whole. Qualification is the key to success for the Austrian labour market, since it is already apparent at high economic times that especially the most poorly trained are the first and the hardest of unemployment. For the group of older workers, the Federal Government will put in place specific measures, including specific measures to promote health in order to preserve and promote the ability to work. The currently unsatisfying design of the care exemption will be modernised. When I speak of reconciliation between work and family, I mean not only the compatibility of children and work, to which I would like to say something but also the consideration of the needs of the people who care for needy relatives. Here we will expand the existing family hospice care and ensure that caregivers do not suffer any social security disadvantages due to their commitment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Equal opportunities, equal opportunities for women in the working world and the production of gender equality are key objectives of the Austrian Federal Government. In this context, it will be a matter of developing child care funds and creating father participation. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We want to further improve childcare and eliminate the shortcomings that exist. This applies in particular to the care of under three years of age. It is about ensuring the quality of childcare, developing basic standards and pedagogical concepts. In the field of equal opportunities policy, the Federal Government has decided, together with the social partners, to develop a national action plan on equality, which will help increase the participation of women and help reduce income scarcity. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In general, the Federal Government will have to deal with the issue of the relief of the factor of work in the course of the legislative period. We must ensure that all social security systems remain eligible without placing the entire financial burden on the shoulders of employees and their employers. With regard to the opening of the labour market for workers from the new Member States, we will use transition periods and, in parallel, gradually open the labour market to skilled workers. The same applies to the migration of foreign labour from third countries to Austria. Here we want to create a criteria-led system, which is primarily geared to qualification and integration. However, the efforts to combat wage and social dumping must be reinforced along with this. We will therefore work at European level to ensure that cross-border enforcement is realistically possible. European integration must also be directed towards administrative cooperation and must not only refer to the creation of the internal market. The Federal Government is making a clear commitment to sustainable security and to the expansion of social security in our country. This also includes the extension of the statutory pension system. In order for the Austrian National Council and the Federal Government to have a clear picture of the situation of the first pillar of old age insurance, we will establish a reporting system that will represent all contributions and public funds spent on old age insurance. However, due to the political discussion of recent times, it seems important to me to note that this is a reporting system which does not take responsibility for any changes in the system. Expert expertise is important and indispensable, but political decisions are to be made by politics and also to be held responsible by it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Invalidity and heavy work pensions should be reformed with the involvement of the social partners. There are also many areas in which it is important to avoid unjust hardness. The Federal Government, for example, also plans to improve the provision of pension rights to take child rearing times into account. Overall, the Federal Government is committed to comprehensive security, quality extension and sustainable financing of care and care. Similar to health issues, such as care and care, are services designed and handled to a good extent by the federal states. Here a number of gaps need to be closed and answers found. Let us not forget about the people who perform the care. Social security protection is also necessary for this. In the last legislative period, we have succeeded in combating poverty, together with the social partners, but in addition to the essential step of introducing the minimum wage, the introduction of the minimum necessary guarantee is still open, which is an important concern for us. It is crucial for the future of our country to use and promote new knowledge as well. Research, the universities, the non-university research centres were only mentioned as a key word in this context. I have often had the opportunity to talk in this House about the research quota and the importance of the research quota in my capacity as Minister for Infrastructure. That is why I would like to say briefly today that, of course, research is one of the key factors for the future, for the economic opportunities of our country in the future. The education system as a whole is one of the key factors that will also decide on the wealth of the next generation. It is therefore necessary to actively design the transitions in the education system from kindergarten to school and to tertiary education and training. It is available for these measures in the field of education – we have agreed – in addition to a budget of € 50 million per year. The Federal Government is committed to seeing kindergarten as an educational institution. For this reason, we want to introduce a compulsory kindergarten year for every five years and will provide €70 million annually. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as day care is concerned, this Federal Government will develop school forms and full-day care offers throughout the day. It is expected to have a training guarantee until the 18th century. There are years of life in order to enable all young people to have full training, and the development of the dual training system is planned. However, the successful pilot tests of the New Middle School of the 10- to 14-year-olds are also to be further developed and comparable models established in all federal states. All education and training measures can only be successful if highly qualified teachers are used. To this end, it will also be necessary to talk about a service-oriented right of service and remuneration for all new teachers, and to realize such a right. However, it will also be necessary to reconsider the existing organisation of the school administration. There are also a number of proposals in our government programme. The Federal Government is also committed to special priorities in higher education, such as the holistic consideration of universities, colleges and educational universities and private universities. The Austrian Federal Government intends to develop an Austrian university plan, which contains strategic guidelines and site optimizations, as well as ensures permeability within Austrian higher education. Particular attention will therefore be paid to the further development of the University Law 2002 in order to make the Austrian universities fit for international competition and at the same time to guarantee the best possible training places for students. In recent years, training at Austrian specialist universities has been a success model. This became a fixed component in the Austrian university landscape. The aim is therefore to promote the increase in the level of funding and to significantly increase the number of vocational training courses. There should be cooperation in the promotion of excellence. [[Abg. May. Stadler: ‘Excellence promotion’?- Oh, my God!]] The Federal Government has always placed a full focus here, both in the field of scientific research and in addition to the promotion of excellence in the field of application, because the boundaries sometimes blur here and make common practices and strategies necessary. [[Abg. May. Stadler: ‘Excellence promotion’?- Oh, my God!]] [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] The Federal Government – and therefore we are all very important to us: the European unification work – has always clearly known itself to the European Union, to the membership of Austria in this European Union. I can assure you that Austria will continue to play an active role in the development of the European integration process. We will contribute creatively and self-confidently to this process in the interests of our citizens. We stand for a strong Austria in this united Europe and will take full advantage of the opportunities that the European Union offers us. The membership of Austria in the European Union was an essential factor for the successful development of our country. And especially in the light of the current crisis, it shows how important it is for economic and social stability in our country. The membership of the euro system has saved Austria from possible even more serious consequences of the financial crisis. National measures are, of course, necessary and sensible in such a situation, but only through a coordinated European procedure, as we want to discuss and agree with the European Council next week, can these measures develop their full effectiveness. Surveys repeatedly show that the Austrians are increasingly skeptical to critical of the European integration project and the European policy-making process. We must take these concerns and these criticisms seriously. We need to step up our efforts in those policy areas at European level that bring significant improvements to people. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The word “population ” no longer occurs!]] The Austrian Federal Government will therefore work to develop a European future offensive together with the partners in the European Union. This means, in particular, a stronger commitment by Austria in the areas of growth, employment and social affairs. People in Europe expect a clear signal for the real economy, businesses and employees. The social consequences of the economic and financial crisis must be sustained. Social cohesion, distribution justice, full employment and gender equality must go hand in hand with sustainable development and competitiveness. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the referendum?]] [[Abg. Strache: People's vote? - A belly spot!]] But also in many other areas, the European Union must demonstrate its ability to act – climate change, environmental protection, energy supply to name just a few. Here, too, active, targeted Austrian commitment is required. As a basis for this capacity for action, the Lisbon Treaty remains an important and sustainable step for Austria. The aim is to bring this Treaty into force and to implement it rapidly. In addition to the concrete political activities necessary to strengthen the confidence of Austrians in the European Union, the Austrian Federal Government also commits itself to a comprehensive and continuous information work on the European Union and to an intensive dialogue with citizens. However, it is not only about the internal policies of the European Union, but also about our commitment in the field of external relations and the future enlargement of the European Union. The Federal Government supports the objective of EU enlargement by Croatia, where we stand for a determined continuation and a rapid conclusion of the negotiations. [[Abg. Stache: With popular vote, isn't it?]] The Federal Government will ensure that the enlargement process takes full account of the EU's capacity to accept it carefully and prudently. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Turkey has left you out now!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the text stands “Turkey”!]] I'm glad you can read that. Hardly an economic sector is as closely connected with the European Union – we could now go through the various areas – as agriculture and forestry. It is therefore also crucial for Austrian agriculture that the European Union succeeds... [[Abg. Strache: You've been reading us completely emotionless and without heart! You read!]] – You will forgive me that when I read my text, I am glad that he reads with you again and again and see if it agrees. After making it available to all parties, I assumed that everyone has the opportunity to read it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You shouldn't actually read! Actually, you should speak freely, not read down! That's what you're doing! That's a huge shame!]] I come to an important area for our country: agriculture and forestry in the European Union. It is also crucial for Austrian agriculture that the European Union succeeds in developing an independent, self-confident European agricultural model on the world market. In this, Austrian agriculture is to be an economic, ecological and social pendant. It should be taken into account that Austria has a small-structured agriculture compared to other Member States of the European Union. The development of the common agricultural policy after 2013 should therefore take particular account of these establishments and their operating structures. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... now until 2013!]] - Yeah, right. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] And because you have recognized this correctly, I could explain to you where, as I believe, we agree, our position, which you see in the government programme, is clear. Because a number of measures are very concrete at all in the government programme, others are first drawn up and others are to be implemented again within the European Union, I have tried to make this clear in the speech I have made available to you in writing in order that you may see everything well. [[Abg. Strache: I didn't get any!]] You didn't get any? [[Abg. No, we didn't get any!]] However, we have actually sent them to all the parties of this House! [[Abg. Strache: But we got it read!]] Austrian agriculture is also of crucial importance as food producers and as part of the tourism industry. The production of high-quality food will therefore be at the heart of efforts, as will the development of organic farming, including its promotion and marketing. The Austrian Federal Government is therefore still committed to taking into account the population’s desire for rejection of genetically modified food. Energy use of biomass is also of considerable importance for Austrian agriculture. Overall, the Austrian Federal Government stands for an ambitious climate policy that reduces the use of fossil energy sources and thus reduces emissions of air pollutants. [[Abg. Scheibner: We want the “Gusi” again!]] For this reason, a federal climate protection law is intended to distribute a burden with the countries and the ministries concerned, which is legally binding. On the one hand, it sets climate targets and, on the other, responsibilities to ensure the achievement of the EU reduction target for 2020 and a longer perspective. The Austrian Climate and Energy Fund has proved its worth. It is spent annually at €150 million and is intended to be further developed. As regards European emissions trading, there is a commitment to the full free allocation of CO2 emission certificates to internationally exposed energy-intensive companies in the interests of maintaining jobs and value added. In addition to these measures, the Austrian Federal Government is also committed to climate protection in the building sector and is committed to the conclusion and ratification of agreements between the Federal Government and countries for greater climate protection in residential construction as soon as possible, so that these agreements can enter into force at the beginning of next year. As in other areas, the aim of the Austrian Federal Government is to see the public hand as a stepmaker and pioneer for sustainable development. The Federal Government is therefore committed to making public procurement sustainable and will set specific targets for this. Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. The citizens of our country are entitled to protection and safeguard their integrity. This concerns both external security and security from internal crime. The Austrian Federal Government is therefore committed to the Austrian federal army and its tasks, which are in the protection of sovereignty and neutrality, with the aim of effectively assisting the population in the event of disaster, in fulfilling military national defence and in assisting in the interior and in contributing to European and international peacekeeping measures. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's in the Constitution!]] For this, the Austrian Federal Army needs sufficient personnel and technical equipment. The Austrian Federal Government is therefore committed to the recommendations of the Federal Government Reform Commission, which, with broad political consensus, laid the foundations for the Austrian German army in the 21st century. ==References== The Federal Government is responsible for general military service with military and occupational components and for maintaining the service of six months. Over the past decades, the Austrian Federal Army has achieved great achievements in international peacekeeping operations, which are at the same time peacekeeping efforts for Austria, as they help to reduce and avoid negative consequences of crises and disasters on our country. The Federal Government is committed to the continued participation of the Federal Government in international peacekeeping operations and will continue to support them on the basis of Austrian constitutional law in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. Within the borders of Austria there is also a responsible policy for security. We believe that social security is an essential prerequisite for internal security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, it is also crucial that the Austrian police authorities have effective means to combat crime effectively. The Federal Government is therefore committed to the appropriate equipment of the security authorities, as well as to the extension of the means of investigation, e.g. by enabling the online search to be carried out in accordance with the principles of law. However, for the maintenance and improvement of the security of Austria, it is essential to further improve the training of police officers and to make their use flexible. In particular, it is necessary to use police officers where crime is increasing. The Federal Government will therefore provide 1 000 training places for police officers over the next five years. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Austrian Federal Government is committed to a responsible immigration policy based on the interests of Austria and, in particular, on the Austrian labour market. Every immigration requires a clear commitment to the Austrian constitutional and legal order. The Federal Government therefore plans to introduce a red and white red card instead of the quota system. The criteria for immigration are to be developed, in particular the necessary skills, the impunity, but also self-sustainability. Incontrovertible is the fact that, with regard to the extradition of illegal residents in Austria, there is a need to increase efficiency, especially in criminal cases. To this end, the foreign police authorities should be increased in human resources and the implementation should be made more efficient. In the field of asylum law, we have made a significant contribution with the establishment of the Asylum Court, both to the reduction of the backlog of open procedures and to the acceleration of procedures. The Austrian Federal Government plans to set up a Commission to examine the degree of integration in connection with the re-regulation of humanitarian residence law. This advisory board, consisting of the competent head of state and the mayors of the municipalities concerned, is intended to ensure that well-integrated persons whose asylum procedures have lasted for several years have been granted a humanitarian right of residence. In addition, the Federal Government is an important concern to allow all here permanent residents the opportunity to integrate and rise in Austrian society. The Austrian Federal Government is therefore seeking to discuss the issues of integration in an open process with all parties involved in adopting a national integration plan. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With regard to the measures in the field of justice, I would just like to mention, because of the short-term need, the strengthening of family jurisdiction, the judicial academy and the partnership law as keywords. The Federal Government is also planning the introduction of national administrative courts. – Cooperation with the countries has also been announced in this respect. With the measures agreed in the Coalition Pact, the Austrian Federal Government wants to increase economic strength and secure essential social values for the future of our social systems. In conclusion, I would like to say to you: I can of course imagine that the debate speakers will now repeat what they have said publicly in many areas. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't imagine that!]] [[Call the BZÖ: Wait!]] However, I would like to ask you to measure this new federal government at a time of great challenges in its efforts. [[Abg. May. Stefan: The Will counts for the work!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can see that!]] Measure us by the efforts to achieve improvements for those most vulnerable to competition in a globalised economy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can see that you're trying, but that's not enough!]] Measure us by our commitment to the young people of Austria, who will be able to enter their working life seamlessly in their vocational training. Measure us in the effort, together with the social partners, to minimize the impact of the financial and economic crisis on the labour market; in our will to provide the necessary assistance for the organization of their daily lives; in our desire to promote all existing talents through a powerful education; in our efforts to avoid the strengths of Austria in avoiding unwanted economic developments. For all members of our Federal Government, we want to take all the opportunities for our country in the European and international context, to ensure in Austria and in Europe that rules for the economic and social future that people and workers have at the centre, and that the thought underlying our agreement is the common action to the best of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6797	We are now going into the debate. As regards the Rules of Procedure, it is agreed that the first round will be available for each 13 minutes of speaking time. The first speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6825	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We were just witnesses of a completely unemotional speech by the Federal Chancellor. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have really shown that you have not put any heart into what you have expressed today. They obviously do not even support what you read today. That was a duty exercise, you have read it down; a government statement that has really proved that, frankly, you only produced a lot of hot air, just as in recent years. And that's why you don't deserve a deadline for the opposition either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Mr Faymann, are not new – this federal government is not new either – and you have today tried to read an anointing speech, so to speak, for the sake of a holy light, but in reality you have lived hypocrisy. Mr Faymann, you are now Federal Chancellor, but you are also the man who has been responsible for government co-ordinator over the past few years, as is your vice-president Josef Pröll, who has also been responsible for the past years in which you have failed, which is why you did on 28 October. It was right to have been selected on September 1. Well, basically, you didn't learn anything about it. You haven't even checked other variants. After the election day after you had experienced a historic election and had to suffer, you simply went to the agenda. Mr Bundeskanzler, what you think of the Austrians is already a strong piece! This also means that your current government programme, which is equipped with hollow phrases and empty dictionaries, is a big, yawning nothing. It is in the truest sense of the word a black hole that can be found in this government programme. From this large black hole all your election promises have been swallowed again after the election day, they have disappeared, and you are now just trying to compensate a little for that with windy excuses. It is an expression up to the ministerial occupation: If I look at the personalities here on the government bank today, I notice that there are almost exclusively ministers and State Secretarys who come from protected areas that have never worked in the private sector, who have no practical experience at all, except for an exception, you apologise, Mrs Fekter. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] However, we are talking about the overall picture of this federal government, this entire team, and it consists of loud theorists who never worked as a private business entrepreneur but who want to make us know today – without having gained experience in the private sector – how things should go better. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is a strange circumstance that we should also highlight! Mr. Vice-Chanzler, you too – together with Mr. Chancellor – entered the worst result of your party history on the last election day. That connects you both. It also connects you that you have up to that time had responsibility as government coordinators. It also connects you with the fact that you have been responsible for all previous non-social measures in recent years. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It also connects you that on the question of European Union policy you have agreed to the EU Constitutional Treaty in this House in a very slave-like manner and have prevented a referendum on it in Austria. All of this connects you with a selected disaster government that you have been involved in and responsible for and that you are now continuing in other positions. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If you light up the government programme a little bit – unfortunately we don't have much time for God because the speaking time in this House is a very limited one – then a point is particularly noticeable: Mr Bundeskanzler, I would remind you that a few months ago you wrote a letter to a large daily newspaper, in which you also held and promised that, against the EU Constitutional Dictat, you would ensure a national referendum in Austria on all changes to EU treaties if there were to be a change – and that would be the case. But what about keeping your promise after the election day? That was the heart of your election promises during your campaign! And now you go in the government program loosely and casually, agree well with the ÖVP and also in writing state that you will be very good, that of course you will never vote against the ÖVP and that you will not overrule each other. – So you have already sacrificed your election promise on this ÖVP and EU Brussels altar! There's the agreement that you don't match each other. As I said, in many areas the government program consists of very many headlines, without any details or anything specific. There is nothing specific about infrastructure inside, nothing specific for the middle class – except what we already know about minimal decisions. There is no real explanation and no vision of the future that you would be willing, for example, now that the hat is burning, to take in at least €6 billion and more to relieve the medium-sized, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and allow a necessary economic package. There is nothing specific about the labour market to be read out, not even the term “combating poverty” can be found in your government programme. There are no measures to be taken against illegal mass immigration, which we have had to experience for years and which must be stopped, nor measures against the use of asylum, which must be stopped. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Suspects are finally postponed. It must not be the way you have handled it in recent years that over 6,000 people who have done asylum abuse are simply not being postponed. They are going through with us in the country for a few years and should automatically receive a permanent residence permit if it goes to you. – That's exactly what the Austrians said on 28 October. ==References== However, this government programme continues to be as empty and as important as your previous work as Minister, Mr Faymann. You are in some cases acting exactly as your predecessor, Federal Chancellor, out of service Gusenbauer, according to the motto: I'm a chancellor. I'm a chancellor. For this, you can be presented by the ÖVP at the Nosenring, also sign gag contracts and sacrifice such as Gusenbauer's earlier concrete suffrages of the SPÖ, only to be able to somehow secure the power for your party from the Chancellor's office. One has the feeling that today the Cabinet Gusenbauer II has issued a government statement. This is like a cast builder II cabinet, only without cast builder; however, the content is the continuation. In addition, you have also shown, in addition to the broken election promises, that you seem to have no interest in important areas in the distribution of ministries. You don't even care about the security resort. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] Security policy is completely indifferent to you from social democracy. In addition to the area of security, this is also the area of justice of the ÖVP. This shows that in the security field you have thrown everything all over the board and are no longer at all ready to finally bring about an improvement in the security police field. You've completely abandoned this, and you've completely abandoned the officials. But everyone will be able to take a picture of it. That is why I also say that this cosmetically processed old red-black federal government is now finding a continuation. That's the feeling people have today. If you, Chancellor Faymann, say that the worker has no fault in the financial and economic crisis and also in the recession development we are experiencing, I will tell you: Yes, the many workers have no fault at all, but you have the responsibility – including in recent years – for leaving the workers you have made so much effort today in these matters. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You are the ones responsible who do not do anything where you have the opportunity. Take Vienna as an example: You've had a perfect teacher with Mr. Mayor Häupl. We've seen that he was your teacher today. You have presented here today as a Commissioner, and you have also represented the old chief school. In Vienna, social democracy has the absolute majority, and there are price increases, there is a turning on the price screw, for example in the gas price, which was increased by more than 20 percent, or in the electricity price, which was increased by more than 8 percent. This is about existential problems for the population, for the people who can no longer afford heating costs in winter, who no longer know how to get through the rounds month after month. – And all of this is indifferent to you – in other words, indifference. A party friend of yours, Mr. Faymann, has not for nothing even called you a glamour; this also shows your current behavior. [[Abg. Bucher: Who said that? The Pröll?]] A great renewal is not at all taking place, on the contrary, one sells us something that is simply a continuation. I remember that it used to be a very common practice for some supermarket chains to cover runaway meat with spices, and then sell it as pusztaschnitzel or gypsy schnitzel. Nevertheless, the meat remained depraved and not edible. That's why I'm saying: Spices, spices – this government is just like this. Nothing has changed in content, and the same personalities are still in office. – This federal government is inestimable. Mr Faymann, you have already been a minister in many areas; it is only briefly mentioned in the AUA and in the postal sector. As SPÖ's leading candidate, you, Mr Faymann, have achieved the most historically bad result for your party! At the last meeting, a green representative – not wrong – said that some social democrats are likely to cry a few tears to the Gusenbauer. It is interesting how you managed to secure the SPÖ in the media market a certain “central committee media power”, which is quite dangerous to democracy and which one already needs to critically highlight. I therefore call on all the honest and courageous journalists and media in this country not to support a SPÖ trail as an embarrassing advertising writer. I say this quite openly, because it is dangerous to democracy if the necessary criticism and objectivity are no longer ensured in the media landscape. This is why it is important to pay particular attention to this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pröll, you have now risen from the government coordinator to Vice-Chancellor and Head of the Party of the ÖVP. As the nephew of the head of state, you have long been described as the eternal hope for the future of the ÖVP. I don't think you'll have a great future. We experience in this government some personalities – up to Social Minister Hundstorfer, who also led the ÖGB on a Caribbean course or was also responsible – who are mentally quite typical of the old school's equipment, representatives of the social partners who are now in the government, which was previously quickly secured by red and black in the Constitution – namely, in the constitutional rank. This shows where the trip is going and that you apparently want to re-animate this red-black proporz system with all its force – a final attempt to re-animate a red-black proporz and power system that we will break. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Gäßner: It's off, and that's it!]] I can promise you, your old hats we will face up to new ways, and we will certainly not give you a deadline, because you have not deserved them. We as the strongest opposition force in this House will represent the interests of the Austrians accordingly!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6950	Next, Mr. Klubobmann speaks Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6973	Mr President. High house! In the course of Mr Strache's speech – with Mr Bucher and the other opposition speakers – I certainly did not think it was different – it would be good if there were to be a reform of the opposition speeches. [[Abg. Strache: (to the red shining lamb at the speaker's pult signifies) Your speech is already over! Mr President, the light is still burning.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The time is already over!]] If I listen to your speech like this – I couldn't suffer it at school if I have been taught all the time – then I have to say that your speech was a single teaching, but without teaching – if, then, an “empty” – because where were your visions of the future? Where were your ideas? You didn't talk about the good at all. I wonder, What do you like about the government program, what do you think is bad, and how would you do what you think is bad? And if you did it differently, how would you do it differently, how would you finance it, how do the measures look? [[Abg. Strache: But, Mr Cap, it's already about the government declaration, because you're visionless! It's about your visionlessness!]] How do you intend to keep your voters if you have nothing to offer in the confrontation to the Government Declaration? How do you actually want to do that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's exactly what you're saying!]] [[Abg. That's what we're illuminating!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: No applause at the ÖVP!]] Mr Bucher, you have already begun the move. With every speech you give, this will be strengthened even more. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have lost the... in history!]] But I would suggest that we can also discuss ideas from you if you have ideas, we want to let them in. But then you must not hide them, but come here and have the courage to have concrete ideas! Then we can discuss it specifically – and don't bring a depressive talk: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strache and Mr Bucher]] I'm so depressed and I don't want to. – It just doesn't make sense! [[Abg. We don't have 50 minutes like Mr. Faymann!]] Now let me tell you something: The Government Declaration does not need to be sent to you in writing. [[Abg. I don't want her to be read! And: with more emotion!]] This is actually a contribution to a more lively Parliament. You received the Government Declaration yesterday at 6:23 p.m. “Puddle” does not appear when it is presented here, following the text. This is nothing but an approach to the opposition parties, but it doesn't have to be either. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is free speech in Parliament!]] I know the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, he would rather speak freely anyway, but that was a welcome thing so that you could have time to prepare yourself for this from yesterday at 6:23 p.m. to this day. If you don't want to... – Yes, it's all right. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ]] We'll remember the laughter. [[Abg. You're a lost cabaretist! You should change the metier!]] Look, this, of course, is also to a great extent superfluous and arrogant what you are presenting, because the sending of the Government Declaration is a welcome from us to you. If you don't want to, don't! That is clear once and for all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say something, and this is almost like a correct position because you have talked about the electricity and gas prices in Vienna. You know, of course, that the heating cost grant in Vienna has been doubled and that it remains even if the heating grant of the federal government comes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The head of the Knebel Parliament!]] So do not work with half-truths, but also say that this was decided in Vienna and that this also comes from the covenant! – Only so that we can understand about it once. Now on the points of content, because you have said that nothing will be done for safety. The Federal Chancellor said earlier, for example, there are a thousand more police officers. [[Abg. Straight: 3 500 missing officials!]] So, of course, there is more for safety. They say that nothing is done for the labour market. I'm telling you, it's about single-sicksales. I'm against being pushed around so much that it's so juggling around. It's about single-sicksal! It is about the fact that pensioners can assume that their pension is safe. That's what she's interested in. That's all we have to do. That is also stated in the Government Convention. That's what the Federal Chancellor said earlier. You shouldn't ignore that, because that's important. You should not try to spread fear and horror, but you should make yourself and recognize what we really are inside. [[Abg. You're doing better than that!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: There's nothing specific inside!]] Every reasonable economist says that a business package is necessary, a second, a third, so that the economy is stimulated in the present time so that purchasing power is there so that people have money in the wallet. [[Abg. Strache: A mini package! That's where the chickens laugh!]] Just before Christmas, it is so important where most of the sales are made in the companies. So you have to get out and acknowledge that once! Or you will nominate here an acknowledgment speaker who comes out and once explains the positive that stands in there, otherwise you will be unbelievable. [[Abg. Where? It can't be!]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Are you against the fact that there is a business programme? Are you opposed to something being done for the labour market? Are you against the fact that politics here in the house always has to determine how the pensions are handled, that there is no automatic? That's positive! Why do you make yourself here and say: That's all bad, I'm so depressed, actually I'm not happy all life anymore!? - That's pointless. We cannot really discuss this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The ÖVP does not praise again!]] Of course, education is a crucial area for the development of a country. In this respect, both the government programme and the Government Declaration are important points, which are not cheap either. A great deal of money is spent on education, including the development of the New Secondary School, infrastructure development and all infrastructure programmes. This will therefore not be infrastructure in the narrower sense in terms of road development or rail, but it will also benefit educational institutions. Cultural buildings, their expansion and improvements at the museums are important. This is all the business card of a country to be presented. You should recognize that too. If you think otherwise, make a proposal. For me, the problem is that I have nothing to do with your speech, Mr Strache, because you have not said anything I could address. [[Abg. Street: “Reserved in the budget” is inside!]] Colleague Bucher can quickly re-describe his speech in the way that he puts something on the table instead of depression from Carinthia and says I suggest, I, Bucher, have thought about it. – That would once be a change. And I'd mean the same thing with regard to the other opposition speakers as well. [[Abg. Strache: You are advice resistant! That's the problem!]] When we talk about education and universities, we say: Thank God we have abolished the tuition fees. This is also a contribution to reducing barriers. There is, of course, no school allowance, it is intended to remain open to school in Austria, it is intended to increase the quality of training. By the way, all of this is related to expenditure, but we confess, especially in these difficult times, that this aspect of the future is respected. We are concerned that our children, students and students have good access to education, including the apprentices with the youth employment programme. This is important for a country, and it is important that we ensure that there is employment and that it is also expanded, because if there is no there, if there is growing unemployment, then there are social conflicts, then I hear this law-and-order writing again. But it would be better to take care of this social security from home, and that is exactly what we intend to do. My appeal is that we put this good tension relationship between a government and the opposition parties, which must exist in a democracy, qualitatively at a higher level, that those who watch television today do not always have to bear the calls of Mr Westenthaler, and, above all, that those who watch on television recognize here are five parties in the House trying to get the best out of Austria together. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Knebelparlament!]] You will only carry this credible if you do not get out here, fight with us in a senseless form, or make any insults, but if you face up to the challenge of the future of Austria and have concrete ideas. That would be much better than on the piano of emotions, of prejudices, of misunderstandings, of I don't know what else to play, where nothing comes out at the end of the day. Because you referred to the European Union earlier, I must say that we are also among those who believe that this scepticism must be taken seriously. You have to do a critical reflection. [[Abg. Vilimsky: referendum!]] One has to look at where the criticism lies, why it exists, and what the European Union can contribute to it, which is the sum of the Member States governments, that the scepticism and criticism are being reduced. [[Abg. Street: People want a referendum!]] There, I believe, it is crucial to recognise that there is also a need for protection for citizens. They want to be close to the institutions, close to politics, they don't want to get out of the way. And they want this closeness not only by fulfilling this role, this role of protection in the economic crisis, by taking these interventions – no, they also want to do so from the European Union. They want this globalisation pressure not to be passed on by the EU, but that we develop our own European model of life, cultural model, social model, and that we, Austria, are self-confident in this European Union – as the Chancellor said, a strong Austria – and that we are self-confidence in the rules and controls of the financial markets, which are, of course, to be solved at European level, so that there is growth and investment and a corresponding economic policy that will then also promote and support employment. [[Abg. Strache: What about a referendum? He fell down!]] Yes, that the citizens are more involved! Right, the participation of the citizens – we have always known this, we will also confess to it in the future – which means that this alienation is reduced, which will be felt there and there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No word for that!]] This opportunity now has the state, nationally, and the European level can do the same in order to fulfil this task. I have the impression that she's on her way there, and I have the impression that this responsibility is actually being realized. You should recognize that from your side once. You should come out and say: Yes, I think that was a good initiative. [[Abg. Bucher: “Super”!]] – Great, Mr Bucher is already on course, he says. – That would be a contribution that, as I believe, could be made in this context. [[Abg. Bucher: Same speech as 2007!]] But one country also belongs to cultural development, the whole of the culture. In this government agreement there are €20 million more for the cultural budget inside. A nice success – congratulations, Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. Strache: Stermann, Grissemann and Cap! That would be a combination!]] I believe that this is important, even to signal, we are a cultural country, a cultural nation. We also have a lot of tourism, a lot of visitors and great exhibitions in the museums. The expansion of the museum landscape is one of the points I believe to be very positive, and one wants to do a lot for contemporary art in the future. [[Abg. Bucher: In concrete terms?]] Film promotion will be significantly increased. That's important. Perhaps you can live without culture, Mr. Bucher, but the Austrians want culture. You have the right to do so. [[Abg. Strache: He fights for his body as a clubman!]] I also believe that for the integration of young people, our children and young people, so that they can also find an identification with this country, culture plays an essential role, for example, in schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I think it is very positive that there are also elements in this area to ensure that this holistic response, which a government programme has to give to the challenges of time, is also given. And she's given! And if you want the turn-on rate to continue... – Now it has probably achieved special peaks, but it should be kept. [[Abg. Now, everyone's turned off!]] Then please go ahead, discuss sensiblely, give other opposition speeches than those you have held so far, because that does not make sense in the final effect! [[Abg. Strache: Cap has always been the queer in the ORF!]] Then what is the result at the end of the day? . At the end of the day, we want to have an information exchange, a discussion process based on mutual respect, that we communicate ideas – of course, from the government what it has done, what it wants to do for Austria in the next few years, where all open questions are addressed – health system, social security, pensions, training, women, children, youth and family, culture, sports, national defence, internal security, all open questions. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Cap-Kabarett!]] All open questions are addressed, are presented with proposals – it may be that this is still too precise here and there, and that is a good thing. [[Abg. Bucher: In concrete terms?]] There are things where you still have to sit down and make it even more precise. On all points, the opposition has the opportunity to introduce ideas. And the promise is that these ideas, if they are good, will also be taken up. [[Abg. Bucher: In the committees adjourned!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are nagging Parliament!]] You should also take note of this, and you should take the opportunity to participate here in the parliamentary process, to be present in the editing and implementation of these templates instead of always saying no and to give depressive speeches. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] [[Call the BZÖ: Lock! Get out!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7562	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7599	However, this is not for Mr Cap to clarify this immediately. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We thought: What are we going to do with this new government? – In times like these, in which many are bad, you should get a little closer together. And I think these two parties, SPÖ and ÖVP, have, after the catastrophic election result of 28. September all the reason to cuddle and get together. Therefore, as a visible symbol for the good will of an opposition party, we want to hand over to you these cuddly bears in the form of a Koala bear, which you should remember... – Sorry, Pandabär. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Calls.]] [[Abg. That's a panda bear! He's asleep 20 hours a day!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] A Pandabary to remind you that when disputes arise, you will find the way back to each other and cuddle again. Here you go. [[The speaker presented the plush bear to Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a teaching of biology and not a scientific lecture, but it is a question of commenting on the declaration of government – a declaration of government that does not really correspond to what Austria currently needs. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] I believe that we must look at the current situation in Austria more seriously, especially the economic situation and the financial markets, and we must keep in mind over the next few months and years. This coalition of losers, which was formed here in this constellation with good will of the uncles who have influenced it, was indeed foreseeable. It was clear to us from the beginning that there would again be a continuation of the great coalition, although many hundreds of thousands of people in Austria ask themselves: Why and what did we even choose? Why do we have on 28 May? September these six million people called to the constituencies, asked them for their vote, so that what we're presented here on the government bank will come out again? Why did we throw €60 million out so that we can now get a semi-retired federal government presented? 60 million € – this is as much money as you want to make available to all day kindergartens, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. This is just a waste of tax money that you've been doing here, with the only goal of apportioning what you've been planning from the ÖVP for many years, which you've been in the government for 22 years. [[OBJECTIVES]] After all, the ÖVP was only concerned with maintaining power, demanding power and continuing it together with the SPÖ, for the government programme was a purely formal matter. This was done immediately, except for these ten ully questions that you have exchanged about the public. This is actually not to be surpassed by mockery and ridicule. I suspect that these questions were not written by Josef Pröll, but by Werner Faymann, who at the same time was able to answer them as quickly as possible, so that it did not appear to be inconsistencies at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I tell you the following – because Mr Cap is always talking about the fact that we should only criticize concrete things –: In just 13 minutes, we are supposed to criticize very concrete things, with the President-in-Office not even being able to offer us something specific within an hour, which has to be done over the next five years. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Strache and Mr Graf.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Don't put any bears on us!]] This is a mockery and a mockery! But I would like to warn the Minister of Finance, in view of these budget figures and in view of the one or other measure. I hope it was a mistake that you want to invest € 850 billion in the buildings, because this is more than the US and China are investing and bringing together. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He didn't even notice that!]] But that alone shows the left-wing populist approach of the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Stand in there: “billions ”!]] I should like to warn you, Minister of Finance, that this debt policy, which Mr Faymann, who is being oppressed and longed for, in order to imitate Mr Kreisky, absolutely wants to implement it, because it leads Austria to the brink of the abyss. And this longing for debt policy in Austria will put you in sweat, Minister of Finance. As you will not have to do much of your own drive to reduce your weight, because that will be done by yourself. I can promise you that. But there is also something positive in this government programme. I congratulate those people who have stopped writing this government programme on page 267, because it is a government programme without declarations of intent, without any liabilities, without becoming concrete. It is really price-causing that so few intentions and so few specifics can be extended to 267 pages at all. [[Abg. Krainer: We cut it off from 500 pages anyway!]] This is highly priced, ladies and gentlemen. You know: 267 pages includes this government statement. The last of Gusenbauer was about half as long, the successful one from 2002 to 2006 was around a hundred pages long, I think, Mr. Bundeskanzler a. D. Crockery. [[Oh, call with SPÖ and greens.]] [[Abg. Csörgits: Don't put a bear on us, colleague.]] That concludes: The longer the government declaration, the shorter the legislative period. That remains to be hoped, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because you always demand specific criticisms: Look Once again, you are really serious and concrete about this declaration of government! I hope everyone read it through. Then you will find that there are 75 cases in which: It is “evaluated”, it is “tested”, it is “designated”, it is “coordinated”, it is “optimized”. And in 75 cases, work circles are formed. [[Abg. Strache: If I don’t know anymore, I’m making a working group!]] There are commissions, special commissions are set up. You will get the impression that you want to fight unemployment in Austria in this way by setting up working groups, special committees and the like, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Make a suggestion! Just one!]] A concrete example, you have the government programme ahead of you. Read on page 93! There it says: Commissions will be set up before making special commissions which clarify the Commissions. - Quote. You really have to ask yourself: Does this have to be in a government programme, ladies and gentlemen? – Yes, it is really embarrassing, as Mr Peter Westenthaler says. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is embarrassing!]] This declaration of government is entirely a programme of indifference, without content, without measures – and above all without goals! You have not even made any goals. One has to imagine: There two parties create a government programme for the next five years and do not even define concrete objectives! This is a programme for political masochists, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You can see this clearly, just against the background that you have a number of construction sites in this country. They've already been listed: AUA, Telekom, Post, ÖBB. [[Abg. Bitch: ASFINAG! ORF!]] [[Call the ÖVP:BZÖ!]] The Austrian Federal Railways speculated €600 million. ASFINAG has over €12 billion in debt. They're not ridiculous! These are not little things! The honest taxpayer expects you to finally accept and not capitulate these problems or tasks. The Austrians want you to go to work seriously and do not ask each other questions and take a “cushion course”. The Austrian citizens want you to make a serious effort to address these problems of the country. [[Abg. Riepl: Please make a concrete proposal!]] There, where you finally become a bit concrete – there are three or four cases in your government program – is suddenly an asterisk. This is also something new, which we have not yet known: a text with an asterisk! I only know this from Italian menus. The star signifies as much as budget retention. This means: Good approach, good intention, but no money! – This is the new way in which a programme for the future is being undertaken. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Fortunately, we were also able to read something positive, namely that this federal government is taking action to relieve the labour factor. Mr Cap has known this for 25 years: the intention to relieve the factor of work. This will not be new to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, because already after the war, as well as the Social Democrats have moved into this House, one has had the firm intention to relieve the labour factor. There is agreement that the labour factor is too much taxed. Full of expectation, I thought first: That's a good approach! This federal government is now concerned, which will at last relieve the factor of labour! But what does that say? A kind of warning, namely: “Examination of options”. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] That means: There's nothing concrete again, there's no solution to relieve the labour factor! [[Abg. Riepl: What is your concrete proposal?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you must finally wake up from the “love mood” and note that the economic “flight weeks” are over, that there is a huge recession in Europe. We need a government that finally begins to shape this country, to rebuild it, to make it future-proof. At last, it is necessary to take action in the health field, in the administrative field and in the field of state reform. You need the money you invest to make the economy fit. I wonder how you are doing this, Minister of Finance – who you are not listening to right now. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll talks to Abg. May. Molterer.]] [[Abg. Strache: He's talking to his predecessor!]] Where will you get the necessary money? – You will have to save in the administration. They will finally have to put the lever on the state organs. You will have to ask, for example: What do we need 183 Members for? What do we need the Federal Council? What do we need national school councils for? We have hundreds of national school councils in Austria who drive the service car through the area and do not work. Ladies and gentlemen, there's money! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The same applies to the cash registers. You are going the completely wrong way by taking hundreds of millions of cash now without demanding reforms from them. The right way would be to say: We want a combination of the health insurance companies, there are savings to achieve, then you get the money from the taxpayer! That would be the right way, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We now need economic support measures that really arrive in the economy. However, they have decided on economic packages that do not reach the economy. They have decided on a bank rescue package that will result in banks hearing the entire money, but the economy will not get access to the loans. The wrong path has been taken! That is why we say: We need a reasonable policy that is now finally taking up the opportunities to get out of the financial crisis, implementing changes and reforms, and ensuring that Austria is a competitive future policy. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a "great coalition", which has never been so weak in mandates, never so weak in perspectives. We now have a "great coalition" or a federal government, which has basically lost the past and played the future, because this government programme is not concrete, is incomplete, is useless to meet the economic challenges of the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7965	The next one is Mr Klubobmann's head.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7986	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! After so much unconcrete lump-sum criticism from the opposition side, I tell you as someone who comes out of the economy: I'm used to talking not only about problems but also about solving them! And that is exactly what the Austrians can expect from this government: concrete, committed problem-solving! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have proved it: Austria was exemplary in saving the banks – like hardly any other country! And also in the first economic package Austria was exemplary – like no other country! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: The economy has no money!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this coalition is a coalition of practical reason. There are in both parties – admittedly! – Critics, there are not a few in both parties who would have wanted a different government constellation, but an overwhelming majority of the politicians of both parties agree with the majority of the population on this coalition, and the population familiarizes in these days of cooperation between ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who says that?]] A coalition of these two parties does not have to be final at all times of wisdom, but it is certainly one for me at the moment: Now, in this difficult situation, it is exactly the right thing! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Listen! Listen! The whole thing is on a Clausula rebus sic stantibus!]] Granted, ladies and gentlemen, many basics separate SPÖ and ÖVP. This coalition is not about us merging these two parties together either, but it is simply and simply that we are expressing conflicting opinions that we are quite referring to opposing positions, that we are having debates in the government, that we are experiencing a living Parliament, but that, despite all the contradictions, we are at the end of the process and are putting the common on the part of the parting. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Also a word to the opposition: We also want to work with you, and we will give signs in this regard. A first step will be that we will immediately start talks with you about minority rights here in the House – about your rights, which you want to exercise here and want – and talk openly to you about them. [[Abg. Bucher: You will need it yourself soon!]] That will be the first gesture of all the cooperation here in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Whoever believes will be blessed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Policy was called on in these days to take rapid, but thoughtful, action against the economic and financial crisis. With the bank package and the business package, we have provided a first proof that we meet this challenge. The only objective of the bank package was to secure savings for savers and small and medium-sized enterprises that urgently need funding for their businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The stagnating growth is a huge problem for all of us in Austria. For all of us, it must be one and the same: to secure jobs for the Austrians! We are doing this in this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the measures to deal with the economic crisis will, of course, cost a lot of money – they will cost a lot of money! – and yet they must be embedded in a proper financial and budgetary policy. That is to say, we continue to confess to the 3-percent limit of the general government deficit, which is simply and simply because in later times we still have enough room to react to any crisis. And God be. Thanks to the recent years, we have been able to create, with an orderly state budget, the scope that we now benefit from in the sense of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one of the key elements in the government programme is the tax reform, the discharge of the Austrians from one – admitted! - too high tax burden. We focus on the fact that we relieve all those who pay taxes, namely the providers of our society and the families. We relieve the families of about €500 million. That's fair! This represents a very special value for the ÖVP, because we mean: Investment in the families is investment in the future, and if we forget about the relief of the families, then we can forget our future! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But also the many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are relieved of this tax reform. We create a new allowance and thus a benefit for taxable self-employed persons. They thus receive a sixth advantage, which is comparable to the discharge by 13th and 14th. Monthly salary. However, it is also important for all the discharge measures: This Federal Government comes out with the tax relief of the service providers, the families, without any new burden! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How's it going? – It is simple and simple because we have undertaken an ambitious consolidation roadmap. The Court of Auditors has put forward a large number of proposals, and we want to follow these proposals. We will involve the Court of Auditors in this reform work for the entire state system in Austria. One thing is certain, ladies and gentlemen, also those on the government bank: The budgetary negotiations over the next few weeks will certainly be hard. The consolidation of the general government budget will also be a great deal of work and a great challenge. Consolidating is the final word – that must be clear to all of us! – to address unpleasant things and to do unpopular things. This will cost strength, no question at all, but the responsibility we bear, not only for our generation, but also for the next generations, requires that we also address unpleasant things and also do unpleasant things. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This government is committed to the social market economy, which is the basis for our economic, social and social system. The state should, of course, play a strong role – but the state should play the role of taxation and not the role of self-rearing. We all have a special responsibility, especially in the design of framework conditions, which we need for a comprehensive provision of services of general interest. But there's also one thing that's quite clear: Competitive companies generally perform such services more efficiently than monopolies, and therefore we say: Only competitive companies can secure employment in a sustainable and long-term way, and they are therefore the prerequisite for prosperity and a functioning social system! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The preservation of our social system, which is so well developed, which is so important to us, represents a huge challenge for us – for all of us who are gathered here in this House! It must be closely linked, it should continue to be closely linked, and above all for those who need this social system in difficult times, such as families with children, small incomes, people who are at risk of losing their jobs, to ensure a corresponding outcome. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, where? Yeah, how?]] The following path must also be pursued: the sustainable safeguarding of our pension system! Only a fair distribution of the claims and the loads between generations can ensure this system in the long term. That means: We want our youth to have a chance, too, because it also has a right to a fair pension. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the field of care, this government places a focus on a whole bunch of measures, and it places it above all where it is necessary: with the caring relatives! The People's Party is absolutely right – and we have also made sure that this is the case in this government programme – that this very often unthankful group of people is finally given more support. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria has – and this has been mentioned by the Federal Chancellor before – indisputably one of the best health systems in the world. Yes, the world! I emphasize: We have one of the best health systems in the world! But if we want to keep this high standard in the future, we need one, especially in this system: more efficiency and more cost-consciousness! This Federal Government will therefore implement exactly the necessary reforms and take those measures that are designed to improve the efficiency of this system. But one thing was also said to the addresses of the health insurance companies: There will only be liquidity aid and support from the federal government if the funds are prepared to carry out the necessary reforms in their own field. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A word also about our education system: I think it's much better than his reputation wants to make us know. There's a lot of bad talk about it – unjustly. In this government programme, I believe, we have included exactly the right measures: compulsory free kindergarten year, maintenance of primary schools and gymnasia, setting up a focus at universities, because, in particular, modern universities are a crucial factor for the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Security is also an enormously high asset. 1 000 additional training places are intended to have a sufficient number of executive staff in that country. Because one thing has to be clear to us: Our executive officials are exactly those who will ensure the high level of security that we already have in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need more parliamentaryism, we need more cooperation across all parties. On the one hand, this must be done from the government towards more involvement of Parliament, but on the other hand there must be more cooperation with the opposition, as I have already said. As a new clubman of the Austrian People's Party, I would like to hand over the opposition parties here to cooperation. I congratulate you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, on the outcome of the very constructive government negotiations and also on the noticeable new spirit of cooperation. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: The one that blows “forwardly” through the house!]] I would like to congratulate all Members of the Government on their appointment. I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, a happy hand in your decisions, and I wish you a lot of success, especially in the activities you will set up – a lot of success in the interests of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8253	Next, Clubob Mrs. Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8277	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Actually, if it wasn't that serious, you'd have to smile a little bit. [[Abg. Grandruck: Do it!]] The question arises: Why did Austria actually vote? Why did the Austrian electorate choose or why did it have to choose? – There were essentially two reasons: the one was the European political dispute, the Swivel of the SPÖ in European policy, and the second was the finding: There are no reforms, there are no more decisions possible! So these were the two reasons, and I believe that the question is already justified: What's different now? Except maybe the style: We now have a federal chancellor and a vice chancellor, who are in need of harmony, who appear everywhere in the race, holding hands. The whole thing reminds of a little bit of a wedding-cooking sugar, picksüt. But where are the decisions to be taken, where are the necessary reforms? I have nothing left but to note today that your declaration of government – as well as the government programme! – alas, visionless, impotent, and reform weak. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With regard to the European question, I think: Okay, you're still different now. But what is the European policy course of this government? That is an important, crucial question. Although they confess to everything, they also question everything again. I'm sure it won't work. The same applies to the major problems. It does not help simply ignore big problems, push them to the side, or simply delegate them to working groups and master plans and special commissions. In addition, you would have been able to delegate it to Parliament immediately, and we would have liked to have been willing to cooperate. So that doesn't solve anything. That doesn't solve any problems. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One thing I would like to say in advance: All ministers who have changed to a new office will, of course, get time to work, look at the problems and come up with solutions. That is, as I mean, of course. Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, with you I have no idea why you need to continue watching. They have now had several opportunities – both the government programme and the government declaration as well as a special session – but nothing will happen. On the cover of the German magazine “Der Spiegel” you can read “Angela Mutlos”. I can only say that also fits Austria: “Werner Mutlos” is the program we are standing in front of today. It is essentially not appropriate to solve the major problems. What is positive in the government programme – I recognize it and I would like to express it too? It is certainly a step forward to offer free kindergartens, although the question remains completely open, why this only applies to the morning. This does not at all correspond to the reality of life of modern families, even if children are five years old. This has really been taken next to it, but it is at least a first step. The research chapter is a little more concrete than it was in 2007. It is certainly also positive to say that there should be an additional 1,000 police officers each year and, above all, more women and more police officers with migration backgrounds. That's absolutely all right. Mr Faymann, one thing I would like to ask you: What do you have that Gusenbauer didn't have? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The “Kronen Zeitung”!]] Where has social policy remained? Where is the social conscience? Yesterday you announced incredibly proudly – Mr. Klubobmann's head has just done this again – and there will be no new taxes. Okay. But you have to ask for it more precisely. Does that mean that the Foundation's tax privileges are being continued? Does this mean that the capital increase tax that the SPÖ has existed in recent months is simply forgotten? Does that mean that there will continue to be tax advantages for managers, in the form of stock options, for example? Is all of this going on? Is that what you are proud of when you say: no new taxes, no additional taxes? It is indeed true that there are groups in Austria who are very likely to earn an additional burden and who are also willing to do so. This is a very large group of very, very rich people in Austria who, in my opinion, would be quite willing to contribute more to the social system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr SPÖ, what did you think of giving all the extra-parliamentary control, the entire area of civil rights, the human rights sector into the hands of the ÖVP? Why did you get rid of Minister of Justice Berger? This is a complete mystery to me. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Mrs. Colleague, this is a partnership government!]] From my point of view, Maria Berger – and I think many experts confirm this – was a good Minister of Justice. Why did she have to go? Sorry, I don't understand. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Faymann, I would also like to ask a question: The big topic in the election campaign was the price, which was your central project, the fight against so-called inflation. On these 267 pages, the word “duration” can be found once – in your speech no longer at all – and there only as justification for the increase of fees including the motorway vignette. – That's all that's in there for the price. I don't know, it can't have been. This also applies to the competition authority, which was so important, and these price increases, which are not necessary in Austria. The competition authority will only be strengthened if a little money is left at random, that is to say, under the reserve of budget and funding. That's left out of the election campaign, and that's not much. That's what I'm asking myself: What do you have more than a cast farmer had when he was acting as head of government? I call you two areas which are particularly bitter, because they are so promising, but which you do not recognize – here you come into a tradition that I want to call “Sinowatt tradition” –: This is the whole area where we are talking about how to use this economic crisis, the economic crisis, to create an ecological modernisation. That's what everyone is doing right now. Look Please take a look at the Obama program. Climate protection is the key challenge for creating jobs with which one can become energy-independent, with which one can also fight social crises very well, so that many flies can hit with a blow. You totally ignore that. They obviously do not need any more experts, because Mr Wabl is no longer necessary. [[Abg. Head: The “dedicated” expert!]] That's what we do ourselves, was the information. However: This program is a Sinowatz program, which is in front of Hainburg. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They want to build more oil pipelines, build more gas pipelines. The only thing that survives is the Climate Fund, but with this you will certainly not achieve the climate objectives, but above all, which is very unfortunate, the thousands of jobs that are slumbering in this area continue to sleep. That is the unfortunate conclusion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Where is social policy? - That's the big question. They have now spread for a very long time on the issue of youth employment and youth unemployment. That's important. ==References====External links== Year of life was already included in the old government programme. Okay, that's important. Just one thing remains open: The social situation of children and young people in Austria. The aim of your government programme is to reduce the risk of poverty of children and young people by a third over the next ten years. How does the background look? – There are a total of 250 000 children and young people who are vulnerable to poverty. A hundred thousand of them live in fortified poverty. That is, they go hungry to school or kindergarten, they sit in poorly heated rooms and cannot participate in the social events of their generation in school, in the ski course, in the school country weeks. And you are content to want to help one third of these children and forget the other two thirds?! - I don't think that's acceptable. No child, no youth can be forgotten! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] While they are talking about pension insurance – which is also important for young people – they are still being driven into capital-aided private provision. The state pension system, which is particularly ill by the ÖVP, is still not able to do what you really need as a young generation. There you go. She did not learn anything from the financial crisis either, Mr. Kopf! As far as working life is concerned, there is nothing in the government's programme to deal with situations that many young people face, namely precarious employment relationships, internships, some of which are unemployed for months. By the way, there was a large project by my colleague Rudas – I wonder where that happened – to create conditions that no new exploitation conditions are created, especially by young people. – In addition to the fact that young people often work in internships for months without making a euro, there is nothing to be found. In working life there are the very classic problems. Astounding real incomes are a real problem for many people. There's no word for that. This is very, very unfortunate. I think many have already made a certain hope, because it was upland, placarded down: ‘New governance’. If you do not lose a word about emergency aid and unemployment aid, I would at least like to do so. Emergency support and unemployment support have not been valorised for more than ten years. That means these people have less and less money to live. In view of inflation and the price that really is an issue, they will simply be forgotten. Where are the social heart and the social conscience of the SPÖ? Both climate protection, environmental protection and social policy are really huge blind spots in this programme. That's unfortunate. This is especially regrettable because you attach to your flags these lip confessions that many people do not want to hear anymore. You yourself have said you want to take action and make decisions. They can't be found here. I do not want the speech to be so negative, because you look so strictly at the ÖVP. Of many ideas, which have also been developed by us in recent years and months – modern family policy, for example – there is something to be found: income-dependent care money, for example, so that more fathers also have the opportunity to leave the profession for a time, the father's month, the extension of childcare. But allow You've already asked me the question: Why is all this not so important that it will only be done if money is left, that is to say, again under the reserve of funding and budget? That would be very important. They talked about the relief of the families. While they produce €500 million – essentially, the tax deductions, allowances, that is, it is good for those who pay taxes; but many families do not have this luxury that they can pay taxes at all. Alone Merit Amounts... – Yes, it's all right! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] However, there are a very large number of families that have nothing of this package at all. [[Call the ÖVP:No! That's not true!]] If you had taken this €500 million and offered, for example, the Free Kindergarten in Austria throughout, this would have been a real real relief for thousands of families. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: There are those in the Styria!]] And family policy also belongs to one: a human right: the fundamental right to family life. That's where I have to turn again to the SPÖ: Why has it not been possible to enforce at least internationally recognised fundamental rights such as the fundamental right to family life here in Austria? They want to remove the right of humanitarian residence. They want to further de facto impossibility of binational marriages to make life difficult for these people. To something else in this area: They want centres of competence for measures to end the stay, to increase the efficiency of the deportation. Where does family policy end with you? What does family mean for you? Family does not stop at the passport, nor at the Austrian border. One last chapter, which is particularly unfortunate, concerns women. Let's look around in these rows! At the FPÖ and at the BZÖ you can look for the women with the magnifying glass. [[Abg. May. Darmann: At the BZÖ!]] - Anyway! In any case, there are no women, or very few. In addition, there is not a single woman in Parliament from Carinthia, neither from Burgenland. Who actually represents the Carinthias? The ÖVP won't even make it... – I'll do that anyway. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: It is about quality, not quantity!]] The ÖVP is not even able to anchor its own female spokesperson in Parliament. The government now has only more than six women and twelve men. In this House, only 33 percent of MEPs are women. I don't think you should like that as a woman in Austria. Really not! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Plassnik.]] I mean, where is the majority of the population really represented? The measures in women's policy are more like a wishful concert to the social partners. I would like a little more courage from women, especially in this government, and also a little more effort, because without that, it will not be possible. Mr Faymann, I conclude by saying: We will look at you very, very carefully from the first day. You have had your chance and you should note that Austria does not need a sugar casting harmony, but – and that was so before the election and so after the election – we need decisions, we need crisis-proof decisions, we need a little courage and a little vision. I've seen very little of all of this today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8491	Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8512	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the audience gallery and also at home! We – SPÖ and ÖVP – only recently, on 23. In November 2008, it was decided to start a joint work for Austria to start five years of work together after five weeks of hard negotiations. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was earlier, the decision!]] I also want to leave no doubt that these are two parties with different history and different ideology, but with a common goal. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Really?]] It is precisely then, when economically difficult times come to us, that it is probably a command of the hour that, when one comes together from the quality of the government agreement, one decides to do what people rightly expect from us, namely to be operational, to give the right answers where help is needed and required. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: What work in the next few years?]] My dear friends! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's not do anything! We are heading towards a large joint project, which we have not chosen ourselves, which, coming from the US financial crisis, has expanded in Europe. We face the fact that we are facing economically enormously challenging times – to say it optimistically. I am also firmly convinced that on the government bank we cannot cope alone with what is happening to us, but that, on many issues, together with you, with the opposition and also with the countries, we must face this great challenge with the local authorities in Austria over the next few months and years. Despite the Job Messages, there are also positive signs for us. Austria is as good as few other countries in the European Union and worldwide. This is thanks to the work of recent years that we are prepared to have a basis to deal with this crisis that is coming upon us together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore about keeping cool head and focusing on the strengths we have: Qualified workers, a competitive export sector, wealth in the population with social balance and solid state balances that we can rely on. The foundations are laid from my point of view, the work can begin. We have three major political objectives to pursue: firstly, to master the crisis, secondly to relieve people and thirdly to strengthen the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These are the three major arches among which we have to shape politics and make policy, especially with regard to responsibility for the coming generations. On the issue of economic strengthening: Ladies and gentlemen! Often it is said so loosely, the entrepreneurs, the industry is being looked at. – If the entrepreneurs of this country, the industry, do not see that the work is ongoing, then we cannot jointly implement our goal of keeping jobs at a difficult time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That is why we will give the right answers with our own discharge package, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, in the sense of a proper economy. We have decided on the part of the Austrian People's Party to go to this government, not to delegate this responsibility, but to assume this responsibility. If I am prepared as a newly elected party observer in my party for this responsibility to lead the party into this responsibility of a government formation, I am also personally willing to assume the maximum responsibility in these times of crisis. The financial sector is certainly the head of the financial administration, but it is certainly also the heart of policy-making in the future when it comes to developing the necessary measures together with colleagues here on the government bank and finding the necessary answers. We must also give security in this phase with confidence and optimism. This is important as a signal from politics for those who are independent in entrepreneurship, who ensure that it continues accordingly. We need to do something in parallel to relieve people. It must be worthwhile again to get money through diligence and performance. This is what we will do: with the biggest tax reform we have undertaken, with the reduction of wage and income tax, already starting from 1. January 2009 will be effective to strengthen purchasing power as well. We approach this discharge with 100 percent energy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What we have foreseen in the tax reform is also a clear commitment to the performance of this country. If you know that 13 percent of taxpayers currently face 60 percent of wage tax revenue, then we need to return something to the wallet for those people who keep the system running, who secure wealth and enable the social state. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] €2.2 billion in income tax and wage tax relief, which is the largest wage and income tax reduction in Austria. We will provide €500 million to strengthen the families, to relieve the families. That's worth a lot to us, and that's right. If you do the 13th. Family aid worth €250 million – Willi Molterer has designed it and in recent weeks already indicated – which will continue to exist in the future, and if you add the free kindergarten year that we want to introduce and become together, we will talk about a sum of €900 million for Austria's families. This is a package that can be seen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The strengthening of the families is not a lip commitment for us, but a deep conviction. A yes to a child will and must not fail in financial obstacles and reasons. The compatibility of family and profession will also be a central part of our policy for the future in this Federal Government. With Christine Marek, a State Secretary will be responsible for this. Thank you for joining the team too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will offer a mix of measures for the families. He goes from the child allowance we introduce, with 220 € per child for all children over the amount of child amortization, which we will increase from 610 € to 700 €, over the 13. Family allowances up to the increase in the amount of childbirth and also the agility of childcare, which is to be implemented as a new element in the tax system for the families in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is the effect? Many spectators will wonder what it looks like in practice, how it will affect them in concrete terms. Double earnings budget, three children, family income of 3 800 € – this results in a net relief of 3 660 € per year. To this extent, we can speak of something like a 15th additional salary for a family. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a concept that pays off for Austrian families! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Single earnings budget, a child – to stretch the bow in the diversity of family models and family compositions –: Family income 1 400 €, an annual discharge of 1 320 €. – Again, an additional income to the extent of a monthly fee through the discharge in the family package. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The second point: Reduction of wage and income tax. . We will charge all those people who pay taxes in Austria, who have done with their income and with their tax burden Austria, which is what it is that we consider necessary for the future, also finance, with 400 € in the lower range up to 1 350 € per year in the upper income area. In this range, wage and income tax relief will be commuting. We will charge all income tax and wage tax rates accordingly – this will also be paid out accordingly for taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also strengthen the small and medium-sized enterprises in a difficult time. Toward the end of the negotiations, we have made a very hard effort to implement this idea, which was born in the economy – 13th, 14th adequate for small and medium-sized enterprises – and we will also take account of this tax reform with an analogue model of self-employed people who are responsible for almost 60 percent of jobs in Austria. For taxable self-employed persons, we will increase the free amount from currently 10 to 13 percent and extend it to all types of business income and profit analysis. – An important step for those who are economically and entrepreneurship active in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not need to address the economic programme that Austria has developed and implemented as one of the first countries in the European Union. They know about the debate of €200 billion in the EU. How is it going to continue to be implemented, do the national states still need action, yes or no, beyond what they have done? – Our economic package, our economic packages stand! We will implement them shortly, and they will bring about what we have done, namely to give security and hold in a downturn phase. I name just a few cornerstones here, because it is necessary to talk about things as well as clear text: Investment incentives in the form of early depreciation: € 570 million; € 700 million for additional rail investment; 100 million € – I can recall the many debates in my time as Minister of the Environment on the investment for climate protection – for thermal renovation; €75 million for regional employment programmes, €50 million for research and development. And the federal government will also be responsible for ensuring that the economy in Austria has access to capital and capital markets to finance and invest, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Reinhold Mitterlehner will assume his responsibility in a new team to ensure that these things, which are good for the economy and therefore good for every employee and every employee, are properly implemented. Third point: Agriculture policy, ladies and gentlemen, is also an important part of the government programme, not only because we are proud of our rural agriculture, but also because in the next few years, agricultural policy in the European Union will face new challenges in terms of willingness to reform, the need for reform, the need for funding. We will continue to collect every euro from Brussels in the future, including for the financing of our programmes in agriculture and rural regions. With Nikolaus Berlakovich is one on board who knows how it goes. He comes from Burgenland and has already assumed this responsibility there. This can make us sure that rural agriculture in Austria has the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It will, of course, also have to deal with the issue of climate change and environmental protection as a whole, and in line with the challenge of not forgetting the environmental and climate protection that needs to be answered in economically difficult times. I don't think any of that – like I hear someplace at the moment, too, and I have to put it this way, from the union corner – to say: Now there is the economic crisis, away with climate change and climate change efforts! You can't play one against the other. Just because the economic crisis has come, climate change has not stopped for a long time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this area too, we have to think about reducing fossil energy sources, allowing climate protection to become the export engine and the workplace engine number one. Education and science, my honours Ladies and gentlemen, probably the prerequisites for the future in Austria. – What we invest here is investment in the future. Like little other euro, the euro in the field of education and knowledge will also get roots and grow into trees. We intend to take the appropriate steps to do so. I have someone on my side with Gio Hahn – he is also welcome to the team – who has experience in these areas. I am very pleased that we have determined three key points in the Government Agreement. First of all: In the future, the non-differentiated overall school will not exist, but we will develop what is present in school attempts to discuss less structures, but more about quality and educational goals for our children, and we will ensure that both the diversity and the freedom of choice between high school and primary school and new projects that are to be set in motion and have to be implemented are also given in the future. Special gift promotion and training guarantee until 18. Year of life are things that we have considered necessary and which can also be found in the joint government agreement. The kindergarten as an educational institution, the last kindergarten year half-days free are investments for the future of our education system and our children. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as another important location factor for our country and for our future, there is no doubt that the right of the population to maximum security is particularly important. I want people in Austria to continue to feel comfortable, so we have put a real focus on the security offensive in the government programme. – I thank Maria Theresia Fekter for her commitment in this field, and I also say to her: Don't be taken away from this way! It is necessary to take the necessary steps in a very sensitive subject. A foundation is laid with 1,000 more training places for the police – that has already been mentioned today. But it is also clear that we need to separate more strongly and more clearly between people who need asylum, protection and assistance, and those who have different meanings of asylum abuse and crime under the guise of asylum. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We need a regulated, better immigration policy. With the Red and White Red Card – similar to the Green Card in the USA – we will succeed with parameters that we want to define – knowledge of German language, qualification and training as a criterion, impact on the labour market and impunity – to regulate, control immigration more strongly in the future and to take the necessary steps that are also needed for Austria's economy and together. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, to grant security does not refer only to the issue of internal security. We also have the task – and here I am addressing a topic specifically with regard to the youth of this country – to ask us the question: What is necessary for young people within the meaning of the Generation Treaty and the reliability for the future? What steps must be taken, for example, in the pension system so that, in addition to the second and third pillars, the first pillar can be carried reliably into the future? This will not be done by leading the history and status quo into the future, but it will only be done by keeping ourselves fit in the pension system, taking the necessary reforms and steps so that our youth can still have the right to do so and enjoying pensions that still deserve this word, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will not be able to fulfill a desire in the health field, which means: Money for the sick cash registers – and this is what it is, but we have to demand in the health system to ensure the quality of health insurance in return for money that we would like to provide – as of 2010 to an amount of € 110 million per year – above all one thing: Reform, reform, reform! In this area, including in ourselves, in the cash registers, in the system, we have to find out everything that is involved in cooperation, what is possible for the future, and only then will we have to talk about funds in this area. Then help when self-help has already started, ladies and gentlemen – a basic principle I consider necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The financial crisis has also shown clearly and clearly in these days and weeks: If the EU scepticism was very widespread in Austria, many evaluations and surveys show that – the financial crisis has led to the consent of the European Union – colleague Strache, read statistics, deal with the evaluations, then see that too! . that consent to the European Union has grown because it has been recognised that the great challenge we face will not only be to be done in national isolation and demarcation and decommissioning, but that the European Union's peace and economic project in particular has and will still be serving incredible services. [[Abg. Come on! Please!]] [[Abg. Brace: Please don't get out of the fairy tale book!]] Our task as the Federal Government will be to make a common mood for Europe also in Austria, to ensure that what is necessary is implemented together immediately. [[Abg. Strache: Put red-white-red interests in the foreground should be your task!]] The EIA is the guarantee that in an offensive European policy we will never be on the brake, but in case of doubt we will always be on the gas, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With Michael Spindelegger is also one on board, the guarantee is for handling the tasks that are waiting for us here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed true that I have already heard from the government side and also from many others whose wishes have been fixed in the government package: It needs more money for resorts, it needs more money for different political goals that are necessary and right! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrong! Less resorts, it would have been!]] I therefore appeal from this point of view as a new Minister of Finance – and I can expressly mention Mr Reinhold Lopatka and Mr Andreas Schieder on my side: Despite crises, challenges, the need for investment for our economy to maintain the cycle, we must never forget one thing and never forget a principle: Today's debt is tomorrow's savings packages! We still pay today to those debts made in Austria years and decades ago. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Red and Black! Just say it!]] That is why we must invest in work in the economy, in education, in infrastructure, and in work, which is no question at all, but we must not live through our conditions. You can assume from me that I am willing to help vigorously, but also to hold on to the measure. The principle of ordinary merchants must not be thrown overboard, especially in a crisis – on the contrary! We do not know how long the crisis will take, how much space we need in the next few years, and that is why we will be very careful with the state finances, with the budget negotiations, with the needs we now face, in order to have the right answers and possibilities of financial nature in the future. To do this, we as the Republic as a whole need to become more powerful and dynamic. Even though some today do the working groups and ideas with the Court of Auditors, with economic research institutes, with the Wifo, with the IHS and others, as a group that is just being used to do anything and then let it disappear under the carpet – the opposite is the case! I am just expecting those who accompany us outside the government in the scientific and economic field of inputs, how can we address the question of consolidation together? We have great tasks in Austria – we, the Republic, the federal states and the local authorities and the resorts – in front of us, but it is always better to save in the system than with the people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this sense: Let us go to work with commitment on the basis of a government agreement, which is a viable basis for the next five years! I also say, in the spirit of the establishment of the Austrian talks: I will work to ensure that the discourse, the open discussion and the involvement of the opposition on this path will work over the next five years, because we know that we have to deal together with many of the mammoth tasks that we face that have not yet been implemented in the Government Convention, that we need a two-thirds majority on one issue or another, and that we – at least I am prepared to do so – have to keep in touch with the opposition accordingly. I invite you to this joint work for Austria. People are waiting for not disputed but working together – in the government, but also here in the House. In this sense, I am very pleased: With new power for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8803	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor. Mr Weinzinger has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8827	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Did you notice that the Klubobmann of SPÖ, the Chancellor, did not even strip the government statement of his Federal Chancellor in his statements? Cap did not mention her in his speech; he was very happy and happy about the fact that Heinz-Christian Strachege spoke before him, whose speech he wanted to crush – which, of course, he did not succeed. [[Abg. Riepl: Who did not make any suggestions!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The President of the Federal Chancellor's speech, the statement of a government that, as we hear, does not quite believe it, for five years, he has not responded, the clubman of the Government Party SPÖ, who represents the Federal Chancellor. But that's not a miracle either, Mr. Federal Chancellor. Although SPÖ abolished Nikolaus in Vienna – be careful, Minister of Agriculture, take care of your first name! – but you, Federal Chancellor, have spoken as if you were reading from the Golden Book of Nikolaus. They have also read, but that's all right; it's quite clear that you're reading a government statement. You might be able to build up some heights and depths, but that's taste. Only in view of what you have said, would you not have sent us your statement of Government a day or a few hours before, for we would have known that. We just had to know which resorts you are like, because what you're saying was perfectly clear. They have made all kinds of declarations of intent, but nothing has come out in the final effect. We now only know that the declarations of intent are not all to be taken seriously, because their implementation is only possible if they are provided with appropriate budget coverage, i.e. if we, the citizens, pay more taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Chancellor was a bit more concrete. After all, he mentioned three points: mastering the crisis, easing people, strengthening the economy. First of all, let me address the “relief of human beings”. “Relieve people” means a tax reform in the given case, because Mr Vice-Chancellor is also the Minister of Finance. He was actually talking about the biggest tax reform of all time. I don't know if the former finance minister Lacina heard this, but if so, he'll probably have taken a glass of wheat beer to wash down the trouble. If one can speak of a tax reform that has actually brought something, then that was the only one by Minister of Finance Lacina, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This tax reform, which we now have to expect, is, if we take it precisely, nothing but a tariff adjustment, a tariff adjustment which is very, very late, because our fellow citizens, and especially the medium-sized people, who are always being sucked out, have been paying more and more taxes for years and days on the basis of the cold progression. Of course, every Minister of Finance in this Republic has always known this and has always expected it a little. But this time they have obviously been particularly expected to do so. 2,2 billion €, this is the tariff adjustment that brings something to our citizens in the final effect. But you didn't add your three points to those points that really burn our fellow citizens on the fingernails. One is immigration, illegal immigration, the security of our country and the relationship with the EU. In relation to the EU, we must finally clarify what our Republic of Austria wants with regard to the EU and what its intentions are: Do we want to remain a sovereign state in a state government? Or do we want to become a kind of federal state in a state? This is the question we have to ask ourselves – and not this eternal waschi: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] As a strong state, we will remain inside and within this integration of the European security and peace work and will act as a strong state. As who will we participate?, that's the question! As a sovereign state in a state government? Or as a federal state in a state? This would have to be the basic condition for possible state reforms in Austria. Because then there's one thing that's certain: Then we have to fight for this if we really become a federal state of a state, then we have to fight for a little self-determination there, just as the federal states are currently making towards our Republic. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[Abg. That's Mr. Pröll's course!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish this government for the benefit of our country that you can achieve as much and good as possible. But I am afraid that I have seen and read with regard to what I have heard so far, that this will not succeed. And in addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is also the opposition here, namely, to be careful that you do not hit over the strands. In this sense, I wish the opposition and the government a happy cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8917	Next item is the report by Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8942	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Yes, Mr Weinzinger, in one, I am obliged to give you the following: We too wish the government and the opposition a positive cooperation – in a change of what you think, namely, a “joyful cooperation”. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have read a remarkable article from a very popular opposition politician. It was this colleague Langthaler of the Greens who once said: Sometimes there are also the opposition ‘blessed proposals’; literal quotation. [[Abg. Strache: She's popular today?]] I cannot make this accusation to you today, because none of you, ladies and gentlemen, came from you. [[Abg. Strache: Who knows this lady?]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Strache, a little memory-renewal, because you said: The only one here who worked in the private sector was colleague Fekter. – Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Strache! Mr. Niki Berlakovich, Minister of Agriculture, has managed his business – agriculture – for over ten years, colleague Marek worked as an employee in a private business, and colleague Hahn was also Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Stache. [[Abg. Strache: How long has this been since?]] [[Abg. Strache: Novomatic!]] You should not forget all of this! [[Abg. Strache: These are exactly the protected areas!]] You should not forget all of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache:... with game operation! These are precisely the protected areas!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr Strache, you also said that you were concerned about the future of Vice-Chancellor Pröll and that he was concerned because he had no future. – Don’t worry about his future, you should take care of your past, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have actually read and looked at the statement of government of the Federal Chancellor Faymann. Yeah, he's right, if he thinks you shouldn't put the blame on those who can't do anything for this financial crisis. He said, "Employers; this is a duty. But he has forgotten that farmers can't do anything and that the traders can't do anything for it. That was also given to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to read in this statement of government that there is something important: the reduction of double track and so on, administrative reform in order to achieve more efficiency. - Yeah, that's a part of it. It is noted that a working group consisting of the Minister of Finance, two heads of state, economic researchers and so on, should be set up under the chairmanship of the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Strache: If I don’t know anymore, I’ll have a working group! 75 working circles!]] There is nothing to be criticized for, except: One has forgotten the communities again! However, when it comes to reforms, which are also intended in these areas, as important representatives, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the Municipal and Urban Unions should not be forgotten. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. The Court of Auditors should also be able to examine everyone!]] One thing is remarkable, and I am glad to say: It is at least once a huge advantage if Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann gives some remarkable and important clues to the chapter on agriculture. It would point out that, precisely because of the small restructuring of the Austrian farmers, this sector is of particular importance to this sector. In recent months, I would have liked the Chamber of Labour to do so, as far as this unfair price discussion is concerned! Because it is not possible to demand from a small-scale farm in Austria the highest quality, the highest requirements and prices as on the world market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No one in Austria would be able to afford a wage such as 20 years ago, that the social conditions as in Europe and other areas as well as the scale are used – only, the Austrian farmers demand the world market price under more difficult conditions of animal welfare, the size of farms and many other areas! If you want to know how to create something in Europe, you can import everything. But one thing you will not be able to import, namely Austrian landscape! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also has a special significance for Austrian tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish that some proposals would have been made on the part of the opposition. It would be possible to discuss competition and the better political ideas here. But what I have experienced here since 1983 has happened again: The government praises its own project – no na – and the opposition criticizes this project. But that from the opposition comes a proposal, how to make a little better, more reasonable, that has not happened again, and that is a pity. So you could cut off your contributions under the title: conceptless, helpless, unsuccessful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can still address two points in this area. I urge the government and, above all, our new finance minister Pröll to urgently at European and international level to ensure that a reorganisation of the international financial system is really undertaken quickly. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] It can't be that certain soccer players in the world are seriously saving money and making economic crises because they thought you couldn't make money out of anything, you couldn't make anything out of anything. It must be so that you put the crafts to these people. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But they all played there!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] We need a European credit rating agency and European financial market surveillance to be better prepared here.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9159	The next one is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9181	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Read everything again!]] - You want me to read this again? No, we've heard enough readings today, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. The honourable Member prefers to speak freely. I hope that this is the case on the Government Bank, at least in the future. But you, Mr Vice-Chancellor – if you address me from the background – have said: “with new strength for Austria”. Now the question is: Where does this new power come from, or, better to say, where should it come from? [[Abg. Donabauer: (significant towards the government bank) From there!]] Then: We now have a federal government, which is really very, very old, although perhaps not in years of life. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But the two who now have the responsibility as chancellors and as vice chancellors also had the responsibility in the old government, namely as coordinators. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go!]] – What does “Go!” mean? Then what kind of coordinator were you? – I was also a coordinator of one, as I believe, better government, then in the years 2000 to 2006. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And there was no measure in the government that did not have the Okay, the placet of the coordinators! That is, you are responsible for the disaster of the two-year coalition of red and black. We all said: One would not have believed that once one says that Gusenbauer and Molterer actually did it quite well in relation to what has been presented to us here today as a new force of the Federal Government. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Mr. Federal Chancellor! People – and you will be asked – are wondering: What do we have on 28 May? He was elected to the National Council on 1 September? For what? What's different now? – Yes, you have provided or disposed of your bosses somewhere, and now the coordinators who have caused the whole disaster are in the first place. If one had hoped that this government programme would be a new force Yes, one needs strength to throw it into the air more often, but in terms of content there is little strength in it, Mr Vice-Chancellor! [[Taking control of the government programme]] It has also been said that we should not criticize everything. We do not do that anyway, because all of this cannot be criticized in six minutes' time. But if there is a budget reserve here 80 times, 18 working groups are set up, 23 commissions, 30 expert groups, dear colleague Auer, what can we say about this? – You can’t talk about something you don’t know yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] And you should not be so excited about the government programme if I have taken up your speech here properly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If concrete proposals are asked, for example in the agricultural policy, I can also tell you, as a non-agricultural expert, that it would be a task for this Federal Government to look at the fact that at EU level, not the agricultural factories in the countries – for example, the Queens as the largest beneficiary of subsidies or the Dutch agricultural factories – will be subsidized, but our small and medium-sized agricultural structure. That would be a task of an active federal government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We'll be very excited about how you're going to do this. The bank package has been addressed. Yes, we have also agreed to this bank package as an opposition here. [[Abg. Bucher: For good reason!]] It's been weeks, and then they said, That's very urgent! – Of course, it would have been urgent. But why isn't it implemented yet? I hear that some who have been employed in this society have had the most important problem of having proper offices to start working. Implementing procedures have not yet been made. The small and medium-sized economy you want to support now – and it would be necessary! –, is still waiting for loans because the banks are still keeping their safes closed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Two months already!]] They're sitting on the money. We have guaranteed 100 billion € in tax money, and nothing will be passed on. There is something we would expect, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mr Bundeskanzler, from an active government that is acting quickly! Or tax relief: 2,2 billion €; yes, it's good. The family package is also interesting. We don't want to criticize everything. But in an economic crisis as we now have it, we would have expected more courage and more initiative. As well as the economic experts say: With at least €4-6 billion, this tax relief should have failed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These would have been the initiatives of a government. Or in the field of education: Ladies and gentlemen, you always say you don't want a two-class school system. We have it, especially in the metropolitan area, where the run on private schools is the case! But you have not presented a concept that you can at least guarantee that the children with German mother tongues in the public schools or perhaps also in the kindergartens in the future have the opportunity to be present at least two thirds that appropriate integration and training is possible. That would be the initiatives that we would have expected in this government programme, but unfortunately in vain. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yes, but you have already agreed on the valorization, the increase of the fees and the charges. It is also interesting for us as a parliamentarian that we hear again and again: new parliamentaryism! . But there will be no vote here, not even on matters of Rules of Procedure, in which you can express different opinions, because otherwise there will be new elections immediately. I don't understand at all, ladies and gentlemen. How do you understand democracy? – That is why, because a government is not even of an opinion, no matter what, Parliament needs to be dissolved, and the voters, who are already annoyed by the fact that he was in power on 28 November. September has elected – 26 mandates minus! – but the same government is now working again, should it go to work again?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: How was that 2002?]] What do you think we're going to have a vote?- Oh, my God! That's Ural-democracy understanding, that's Ural-parliamentaryism! That's not where we're going to play, and They will have to deal with a very active, constructive opposition of the BZÖ. We will criticize where it is necessary, but we will also face the alternatives, and I can tell you that [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] The comparison will make the voters safe the next election day.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9349	In accordance with the agreement, I shall interrupt the meeting by 1.15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9386	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9421	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The new Federal Government places people at the centre of its policy. [[Abg. Grosz: The Federal Government is not here yet!]] The essential question... – I don't know if you have a problem with it. [[Abg. Grosz: Where is the Federal Government?]] I don't have a problem with that right now. [[Abg. Grosz: It is at least the debate on the declaration of government!]] I'm just telling you: The essential thing is not whether we are fighting with each other, but rather whether the policy we are making and the policy that the Federal Government is making is also a matter for people, whether it is successful and the situation that improves the daily situation of people, and not the question of whether you and I are always of an opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: No! But the fact that they make the declaration of government and then they are missing in the debate is already significant!]] Let us look at what this declaration of government means for the individual. What does this federal government say about a student or an apprentice? She tells them quite clearly: We can't guarantee you a job, but what we can guarantee you is a training place, regardless of whether you want to go to school longer, then we can guarantee you a schoolground, or if you want to do a training, want to learn something, then we can guarantee you a training course. What we young students say about what we young people say with this declaration of government is that we will continue to work to improve their training situation, their situation in school by continuing to reduce the maximum number of students by investing more money in education, investing more in integration measures, simply saying that we do not want to give up any young people, nor do we want anyone to have problems with reading, writing and computing, but that we invest in the training of these young people, and that we also stay in that there are no tuition fees, no non-social barriers to university studies. Even though we clearly say that we cannot guarantee a job, we can guarantee one thing: that we will not simply accept youth unemployment, neither today nor tomorrow, but that we will do everything we can to ensure that it does not arise at all, and where it is created, where it exists, will do everything we can to eliminate it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Young people should be happy and happy that they are growing up in Austria because they can then say: With us youth unemployment is far and widest. That is the objective of this Federal Government and what the Federal Government can say quite clearly. Whatever this federal government clearly says to young people is that we keep the good Austrian pension system in place, even for young people today, so that we can also get a pension from the first pillar, from the bearing pillar, and that we do not do what has been criticized today, that we would do the other thing, namely suspending the pension from capital markets. We also say clearly: Your evening of life is too important for us to put it up and down to any stock exchanges; we ensure that the first pillar is viable and that you get a decent pension on your way over the generation contract! What do we say to young families in our country? – We have a lot to say to them! First of all, we tell young fathers that we are developing a model that enables them to adapt to the new situation of life right after birth, in the first weeks, together with the woman and with the child. We tell young parents that we are working to make the childcare allowance more flexible, so that more fathers in particular have the opportunity to take care of the children over a longer period of time. We tell them that, together with the countries and communities, we want to improve the quality and quantity of childcare facilities and that we also take money into their hands, and we also tell them that we are making them tax deductible – another step towards making work and family more compatible. We tell young parents that we want the best education for their children. And because we see kindergartens not as storage facilities, but as educational institutions, we make the last kindergarten year first mandatory and second also free, in a first step at least once the half-day visit. We say that, especially in kindergarten, essential competences are learned – social skills, but also linguistic competence – and we know how important linguistic competence is and how important it is for children to be fit for school. That's why we're introducing this mandatory kindergarten year. We also tell them that we are developing the New Middle School – the time of mutual blocking is over, it must be over! It is about going new ways together here and that we are developing a modern school, first as a project, but then, in view, certainly also in the regular school system, a modern school that meets the requirements of the 21st century. ==References====External links== Of course, what we say to the families also concerns the monetary aspect. In addition to the tax reform, which, of course, also works for families, there is the family package, where there is more money over children's deposits et cetera, that is, over a number of measures. [[Abg. Booker: Where will you take this? Where does the money come from?]] The message is clear: Yes, children cost money! They will also cost money in the future, will cost more money in the future than I save myself tax, but it will be refunded a greater part of the cost of society. This is also a signal or a message of politics by saying that we want to rejoice together with the parents about the growing children. What do we say to the older generation with our government programme? What do we say pensioners? . We tell them that we want to receive the value of the pension that we want to obtain the purchasing power of the pension. There have already been a number of decisions in the last few weeks, including an increase in pensions by the inflation rate, a two months earlier payment, and a one-time payment depending on the amount of the pension, and a heating allowance of up to €250 a year. So there are a number of clear signals in this direction too. Of course, the tax reform, the €2.2 billion, also for pensioners, does not matter at all. With regard to care, we say that we want to improve the framework conditions for care at home, on the one hand, by improving and expanding care promotion together with the countries, when family members are caring, there are no social disadvantages for them. We tell the pensioners who, of course, depend heavily on the health system: We will continue to develop the health system, we will keep it financially viable, but – I expressly say this – without new restraints without the need for the sick to pay the penalty in order to finance the system. On the contrary, the 2-percent cover of the recipe fees remains natural! What this and the previous Federal Government did or did with it is not to introduce self-holds, but to cover and reduce existing restraints for individuals in truth. The list could continue for a long time, because, of course, Mr Auer, we are doing something for farmers, which is no question at all – you have already mentioned this. And if the Federal Chancellor here first said that the workers are not guilty of it, you are right: Of course, it is not the businessmen who are also responsible for the financial crisis, it is also the farmers who are not responsible for the financial crisis, but also the pensioners and housewives, pupils and apprentices and so on, that is no question! – But the first of the financial crisis [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But anyone's to blame!]] Of course, those concerned are the workers who are now being terminated. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] And that's why he also pointed this out: because they are, of course, the first to pay the token. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign again.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] In this sense, however, I say: One thing is certainly new to this government, which is the way in which each other is dealt with. There are certainly still different opinions, but they are no longer carried out at the balcony, but here we are looking for solutions together. In so far as the new Federal Government is luckily happy, I am looking forward to working together in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9568	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Available speaking time: 6 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9590	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It's easy not to do it with this explanation. [[Abg. Bucher: Too easy!]] In fact, there are a number of problems and a strong crisis, which, admittedly, not only rolls over to Austria, but at least once to the whole of Europe. They strive to present a new style here, but at the same time the content of your government programme, on the one hand, and the government declaration here and today, on the other hand, are relatively poor. . I believe that this programme and this one of your statements here today have not been wrongly assessed as a "presseberger programme". They do not make it easy for you either because you are really wondering why two failed, but now sitting on the gable cross, and with a boulevarding newspaper, government coordinators should do all that much better – with 14 percent less. – This remains the question which cannot be dealt with in detail due to the seriousness of the situation. Let us come to the teaching of the program. The budget reservations have been addressed. There are now two options: Either you signal that you are actually willing to make the appropriate savings, that there is something going on, or you go here and just begin by confessing that you have actually started with the so-called budget path, which is contained in the program, with a dizziness. This has progressed throughout the negotiations: They have presented a budget programme that assumes that there are massive savings due to the so-called state and administrative reform. – That is to say, we are partners, but you have not said that the Budget Negotiating Group has calculated a full programme of over €3 billion in savings, while the relevant negotiating group on State reform has blown the same thing off as a whole – as a whole! You should not be surprised if you include Mr Niessl and Mr Sausgruber in this group. There's something else you should have thought about! Now we have this in the budget programme, it alone is a deception. - I have to tell you from the beginning. One wonders what one prefers: a controversial government like before – one that really argues about something – or one that starts with a dizziness. Now you have set up a working group. The government programme was still in place – I have now selected it; Page 255 –: ‘The working group’, namely regarding this glorious saving, ‘will include the following persons: 1. of the President of the RH, 2. Prof. Dr. Bernhard Felder (IHS), 3. Prof. Dr. Karl Aiginger (WIFO), 4. der Bundeskanzler, 5. der Bundesminister für Finanzen”. Today we read and hear that the first and most important thing is probably already gone down, namely the President of the Court of Auditors. – I would have done so in his place, because again with two national leaders who have been blocking everything in the area for decades, he can only burn his fingers! Moreover, it is not his job to provide assistance for such disenchantment. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] On another financial issue: Unfortunately, it really is through this programme that you cannot keep your promises and your will to the new style then when it comes to concrete measures, for example in tax policy. - That's the serious thing. Mr. Head, if you say there's a tax relief for all who pay taxes, then it's pretty cynical. – They mean: all those who pay wage and income tax, but of course it is true that everyone in this country has to bear a particularly high tax and tax burden – VAT payers, for example – and this is true of those who do not deserve much. The Austrian tax system is by no means redistributive – not now and in the future even less. [[Abg. Head: The slightest spray of all countries!]] It's not like that. If you count all taxes and taxes together, that's what comes out, and that's exactly what you're doing now. In your policy... – Now the Raiffeisen group is already with the Federal Chancellor; I have always believed he is only with the Vice Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier shakes the hands of the Federal Chancellor and other members of the government.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: If you want stability, you have to go to Raiffeisen!]] Back to the Ernst: If you make such announcements, it would be reasonable if a tax reform looked so much that even those who deserve very little. They would also spend it immediately – the word employment policy. That would be reasonable! In the long term, we will not jump far with this programme! If you want to do nothing other than that all these five years of fiscal policy, this announcement is a threat today because the cold progression will have eaten it up in the same five years. This can not only be solved through wage and income tax, we will also need counter-funding for the next big throw. And here it is not your failure, but that of the Social Democrats to leave out exactly where chancellor Gusenbauer was already further away when he negotiated a wealth growth tax. - All this is being tilted now. You lack the courage to say that real redistribution can only be done if you finally reach at least an OECD standard or even an EU standard on property taxation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With us, the richest 10 percent of the population pay as well as no taxes on the same assets! This is your failure! [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] Now, at last, we have to go back and forth, so that we can make real reforms that are urgently needed. If that doesn't happen,...
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9680	Mr Commissioner, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9695	... this program remains an empty program, but a full threat.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9723	The next speaker is Mr. Hundstorfer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9744	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You can certainly imagine that it is not possible to give you an overview of the entire resort in 4 minutes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We can imagine this! That's what we can imagine! That's how we are!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we all agree that the present events are a global economic crisis caused by unscrupulous deregulation of the financial markets and caused by the impoverished greed of some who have plunged the whole world economy into the crisis. The effects of this crisis are partly recognizable in Austria and, in part, in all honesty and openness, it is not yet estimated. Everyone – especially those of the opposition parties – who thinks he already knows exactly what will come, I thank him and will propose him for the Nobel Prize. However, the following can be seen: that the Austrian Federal Government gives answers and these answers are put into reality. It is clear that we have developed economic packages to address the crisis in the Austrian labour market in order to fight for the preservation of as many jobs as possible, and also to fight for it, to set incentives to create new jobs. – Even if that now calls some of you visionary: In this vision is also an answer! However, I ask everyone not to expect any miracles. Unemployment has risen in November, it will also rise in December, and we have to deal with this increase in unemployment. We are committed to saving jobs, and we are also committed to finding alternative employment models. I am building very much on the common ground in the Federal Government, on the Minister of Economic Affairs and on the Minister of Finance, but I am also building on cooperation with those forces in this country, which were the prerequisites for the country to work so well so far, namely the social partners. [[Call for the call.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] – Social partnership will be a prerequisite for effective crisis management. The most important thing is that young people and young people will be able to enter the labour market despite economic crisis. The increase in youth unemployment by 6.9 percent in November shows that young people are already very affected by the outbreaks of the crisis. My vision is that no youth is on the street, that all young people get a training place that will be provided. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have been promising this for so long!]] – Even if you already know it, Mr Westenthaler, it does not hurt if those who listen to us via media listen to it again. – And it must also be quite clear that training should take place in over-company training facilities if no company apprenticeship can be found. In this context, I would also like to inform you today, on the UN day of people with disabilities, that there will be an increase in resources for vocational integration. I would like to call on all Austrian companies to look forward and give the youth a chance together, because after this crisis there will also be an economic upturn, and this can be better used with very well-trained professionals. – Of course, this also applies to older people with their experience. Let us use this time by perhaps expanding alternative employment models or also further training! We will also implement a package for the older generation, thus slowing down age unemployment. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] - I'll be right there. They are all called upon to participate, for example, in particular the banks. – All of this has already been said today. My aim in this position is to secure the location of Austria with regard to jobs and the preservation of quality of life. My aim is also to minimise the impact of the global economic crisis on Austria. That is my goal in this position, and I can only invite everyone to participate in the achievement of the goal. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9815	Mrs Csörgits is next spoken. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9836	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! It has often been said today that it was necessary, good and right that a new federal government should be formed quickly, and it is equally good, right and necessary that the government agreement accordingly has good answers to the forthcoming crisis. The Austrian Federal Government has made it a task to give people more social security in difficult times, and that is a good thing. There are very important points of approach, on the one hand, in the chapter on social affairs and, on the other hand, in the chapter on work, and I would like to refer to two of them, which are especially dear to me. The first aspect is that there must be extensive economic measures in the Government Agreement. Some of them have already been initiated, and in addition, there are still many good measures in the Government Convention. It is also important that tax reform is promoted to ensure that purchasing power is increased in the country. For economic and employment policies, ladies and gentlemen, €6.15 billion is planned for 2009, which will be used quickly, safely and accurately to combat unemployment. This is about public investment in infrastructure as well as measures and investments in education, but more is being invested in research. This means, on the one hand, that short-term jobs will be secured, but on the other hand it also means that in the long term, many positive measures will really be put in place in connection with the economic location of Austria and will be safeguarded. Ladies and gentlemen, even those people who are unfortunately unemployed are not left alone by us: Qualification plans for workers will continue. – 75 million are intended for regional employment programmes and, above all, for new entrants. Youth unemployment has already been mentioned. . I think that this federal government will do everything it can to prevent an increase in unemployment, because we probably agree that unemployment is not a human form of reduction in working time. It leads to many negative experiences and difficult fates, and in the long run it also means, of course, that the good social security system is at risk in Austria. I'm already with the second thing that's at my heart, namely, the pensions: I am pleased that there is a clear commitment to the state pension system, that it will be safeguarded and further expanded. – This is a lesson from the unfortunately negative effects of the financial crisis. The Austrians, ladies and gentlemen, have a right to an adequate standard of living and living in old age. Our “oldies, ” if I may say so, deserve it quite simply. And for this, the statutory pension system is the most important pillar, very valued ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It will not be – and that is very important to me – automatic pensions. There will be a reporting system, and we in the National Council then have the task of taking appropriate measures. We also, together with the social partners, have undertaken to look closer to the area of heavy-labour and disability pensions. It is necessary to make these two forms of pension fairer, especially with regard to the effects on and interaction with other types of pension in the ASVG. At the same time, however, we are also committed to further harmonisation of the different pension systems, and we will work on them. I am particularly pleased that, in connection with the pension, we have also committed ourselves to agree for parents who work and care for children, It is easy to make a better assessment of the pension calculation for the first seven years in children. There will also be an improvement in relation to those who perform care. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] – I don’t see the red light flashing yet, but I’m about to finish. - Now it's flashing. Minimum security of demand will also be implemented. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Social Affairs Negotiations team very much, in turn to Mr Haberzettl and Mr Neugebauer. We have actively discussed and made a good programme, and the Federal Government will also implement and implement it quickly and effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9927	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. Speech time available: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9946	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Family policy does not mean social policy, but it is a good networking, and family policy is now, as it were, located in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Strengthening family and making family even more viable in all its diversity, that was and is a major concern of the ÖVP. Not for nothing, Austria is in the forefront of support for families across Europe. In this context, I would also like to remind you of the introduction of the 13th century. Family aid, which was first paid out in November and reached over 1 million families, totaling approximately € 254 million. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as mothers and fathers at home on TV screens, in the future a further comprehensive discharge is in the foreground. This government, especially the Federal Chancellor, the Deputy Chancellor and the competent Federal Minister Reinhold Mitterlehner and the Secretary of State Christine Marek, who is already in this field, are responsible for this, and we will take further targeted measures to make family even more viable. I think it is good to repeat – even if this has already been presented several times in the framework of the government programme: The €500 million will be paid in the course of a family tax relief, and the kindergarten offensive will continue to support our families – with a total of €900 million. Tax relief will support single-parents and single-earners as well as families in which both parents are employed; Families with a child as well as those with two, three or more children. Another important point for us is to promote the better compatibility of work and family. This is to be done through the development of the childcare allowance into an income-dependent childcare allowance built on the existing three pillars, with the possibility of strengthening the father's participation immediately after the birth of a child, including considering the involvement of the social partners in order to obtain employment and social security, including through the extension of the childcare facility for under three years, as well as by the introduction of a mandatory, free last kindergarten year and by the admissibility of child care costs. This applies not only to the repeatedly quoted rich, but also to the middle class and also to people who have to pursue a work in a different form and have to provide childcare. In addition to the many forms that exist, a very, very good measure is in addition to the state and the municipal kindergartens. I have sometimes been condemned to smile about it – that is also necessary in politics – how long some things take. That was one of my first demands. I'm not necessarily saying how long that took, but it's too long. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Berlakovitsch-Jenewein.]] It is also an important point to ensure care and care. Given demographic developments, this area will be a major challenge in the coming years, including for our Minister for Social Affairs. It is precisely on the part of the ÖVP that we also see that there must be reliefs in total for those concerned – for those who care, but also for those who are cared for. That is, there is also the establishment of a care fund. There must also be an extension of the hospice and palliative system, but also a safeguarding and further development of the care allowance. Summary: Strengthening the social cohesion of families is a central objective, as well as helping people to secure and develop the social state and strengthen families in all forms and, as I mentioned earlier, make them more viable. I hope we do.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10016	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Hofer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10037	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! I think it would be wrong to condemn a federal government. Of course, the work begins, one will see how this work is done. But if you look at the government programme and look at it critically – that is the task of an opposition party – you already notice very strongly that there are very, very many declarations of intent and that you are delegating to experts and working groups. I would understand if this were to be a party that was governing for the first time, but both parties have a very long-standing government experience, so we must assume that these two parties should also know how they are doing. That is obviously not the case. Delegates to committees, to working groups. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Austrian way: to delegate. If Moses had been a committee, ladies and gentlemen, then his people would still be in Egypt today. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That means that can't always be the right way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is particularly disturbing to me is that one of my previous speakers claimed that the opposition parties were not active in content, did not put forward any proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last legislative period it was the opposition parties who made the work in the field of content, who made many requests, that they put in ideas. And what was the case? – Everything postponed, everything rejected. The government parties themselves have made very little progress. To say here that the opposition is not active, ladies and gentlemen, is a smooth lie.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10094	Member of the European Parliament, for the expression 'this is a smooth lie', I give you a call for an order. Please, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10140	Mr President, I take note of this. I'm sorry, I couldn't help it. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we have also prepared a government programme, with all the measures – in detail! – which we want to implement for our home country Austria. This program has been downloaded 250 000 times from our homepage. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to present this programme to you so that you can see: We not only criticise, we also make proposals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The speaker presented a brochure to Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] Today is World Disability Day. Unfortunately, there are only a few in the House that are affected – exactly just one more. There is of course a lot to do – very much to do! A federal government that works under a Social Democratic Chancellor and is led by a Social Democratic must prove in particular that it really has a heart for the weakest in society, that is, for people in need of care and for people with disabilities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As it cannot be that 11 percent of applicants die before they receive care money. There can be no inflation adjustment in the case of a care allowance. And there is no way that we can afford not to implement a state reform so that the necessary financial resources can be released so that these resources can also benefit people directly. Mr. Federal Minister for Social Affairs, I very much hope that you will be successful in this function. It is important for the welfare state of Austria. I would also like to stress: The weakest in society, these are not the banks, they are not those immigrants – even if there are a lot of skilled immigrants – who are seeking social assistance in this country, but would find a job in their home country, but these are those people who have worked for our home country for a lifetime, then need care and then need the help and support of their homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, we must work for these people.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10213	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Available speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10234	Ladies and gentlemen! The government is trying to create a new look. I call it "Fiberschmeichler-Coalition" that's gotten together. The problems will not be solved in the future, but they will be smiled away first and foremost. This is also the difference between the two government formations in America and in Austria: There an American President Obama says: Yes we can! – and here is a Social Democratic Chancellor, who says: Yes, let's go! That's the big difference, but there's nothing behind it. That's the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's nothing behind it. You have taken a new path according to the motto: Is the way also wrong and stingy, main thing, we agree! No matter what happens, we write a government agreement that has nothing to do with it. We have no visions, no dynamics, no mood of departure, no promises of the future. We're deceiving movement. It looks like both of them are getting a little faster on the spot. That's the movement that's faked. But I'm really wondering, Where are your statements? Where is your job security programme, Mr. Hundstorfer and Mr. Col. Minister for Economic Affairs? Yesterday we heard from a minister of economics, his only message, what the government needs to do now, is: It must support the short work. Mr. Hundstorfer, where is your protest? You, as a trade unionist, know very well that short work is the first step in unemployment, and you should have said that, Minister of Social Affairs! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Where is the future programme for young people, since the unemployment rate is rising sharply among young people? Where is pension insurance for older people? Professor Tálos said that this programme has no guarantees for future pensions. – It’s also logical, because you just broke down the pensioners for this year because you’ve increased them under the inflation rate and thus lost every pensioner’s money in real terms. – This is the dubious merit of the great coalition, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Where is the announcement, Mrs. Innenminister, against crime? Where's your announcement? Vienna is daily the “ Mecca” of robbery. Tobacco practitioners are being attacked, gas stations, locals. Where's the security you want to give? [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You are – I quote now Professor Streissler – also at the budgetary level a government of the ignorant. - That's what Streissler said. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No budget planning, no visions. This is not a government programme that you have presented, but it is a capitulation document, ladies and gentlemen. A phone book, believe me, is more informative, because I know at least who I can turn to. This is more innovative than your government agreement, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Then read the phone book! That would have failed anyway!]] Mr. Chancellor Faymann, you have brought home the same result as Gusenbauer, only without the Ministry of Justice and without a sandbox. This is the merit of your government: They came here with a few percent less. Mr. Kopf – that’s clean! I don't know where to come from You're a clubman now? You haven't been there in recent years, have you somehow missed the choice? – He poses himself here and says: The Austrians wish themselves a great coalition. - Yeah, where did you get that? They have jointly lost 26 mandates – 14 percent – from ÖVP and SPÖ, and You have the forehead to come here and interpret the Austrians that they want to have what they have just chosen! How much sense of reality do you have, Mr. Klubobmann's head? – You have to ask that before. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's impotent, it's powerless, it's unthinkable, it's heartless, the program you have there – and that's exactly how you read it today, Mr. Faymann, Mr. Federal Chancellor! You didn't keep your promises either. You're pretending to have kept everything. Where is the great VAT reduction on food? - Not a word. Where is the EU referendum? – Not even in the government statement today, you have agreed to say something about it, because it could be evil for the ÖVP. You promised people an EU referendum, and do you know what came out? – The end of the government if you submit the request. Well, wonderful! Great! That's what we expected from you. You, Mr Faymann, have fallen down like a railway barrier at night. That's the truth. They have fallen down and lie on the ground, just like your predecessor. And just as this government will be unsuccessful. In fact, they are not in a position – they have not been able to act as coordinators, and you, as members of the government, are not in a position to lead this government. Mr Pröll, I wish you all the best. At least you have taken a right step: If not a man of expertise, you have at least brought a theologian to the Ministry of Finance as a State Secretary. This will at least give you the support of God, and you will need it in your policy. Believe me!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10322	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10343	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of this government programme and today's declarations is less what they contain, but rather what is missing, what they do not contain, what is overlooked, which seems to be deliberately ignored. This is, for example, the fact that SPÖ and ÖVP have a lot of responsibility for what has happened in recent years, or for what has not yet happened. The fact is that in Austria we still have enormous numbers of people who are poor and vulnerable to poverty. These numbers are rising! It increases the numbers of people who cannot afford living, food, hygiene products. What was the answer of the red-black coalition old? – The minimum guarantee model. And where is it? – It is still not implemented, even if it is embarrassingly low at 771 €. The system too is anything but a courageous forward-looking step in terms of the emancipation of economically disadvantaged people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What does this mean in the new government programme? – Based on the previous model, work should continue. And I'm asking you: When will it be concrete? When can we expect that we finally have a minimum guarantee in Austria that protects against poverty? You didn't manage to do this in the fat years. What can be expected in the crisis now? – I fear little if I look at the government program. To the next topic. – Not only children, young people, single parents, older people, unemployed people still have too little to live, but also many people who work. Thousands have only part-time jobs, precarious jobs, of which one cannot live. People who are full - time employed sometimes still have income below the poverty line. The great coalition ante has had the minimum wage in the programme for this purpose. What has become of it – also because of your reactionary trade union policy, Mr. Ex-President Hundstorfer? – A minimum wage of € 840 for full time – and that only for people with collective agreement! This is already a backpack that you have to answer here today. Mr Ex-ÖGB President, Minister Hundstorfer, I also ask myself: Who will you represent in your role? [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: He will represent the union!]] As in the past mainly the men, the workers and the employees in the full-time employment conditions? Will you, as before, forget about the atypical, precarious workers, mostly women? Or: Where can I find in the government programme your offensive fight for the security of precariously employed people? – Unfortunately, I find nothing like that, and I have not heard anything about it in your statement either. What will be expected of you, Minister? – Your program does not reveal much to us. I can only measure you by what you have done so far, what They have agreed to extend the maximum and normal working time. In your responsibility, the trade union has agreed to the deterioration of the rules on visibility. The union has agreed – under your responsibility! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, how can you be so little satisfied with what you have presented to us today? So it's not me! It would have been so urgent that you would have presented more and more specifics here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10389	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10421	Mr President. Estimated Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of economic crisis has already been addressed several times today. We see that the financial crisis has long since also reached the real economy in Austria. Just today, the falling order numbers have provided headlines again. Investments will be resettled. Of course, we have also discussed the question of guilt here, and I believe that we will not be able to find exactly the individual Austrians because there is no one to blame. It's a global crisis. It will certainly only be possible to deal with it if the right measures are taken at EU and world level. What we can do, however, is to put in place the right measures at national level. I think it's also about the mood. We should not “cry” the economy now, which then becomes such a self-fulfilling character, but we should not pray it in good health either. We need to find the right mix of measures. Mr Westenthaler, you did not listen to me yesterday. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I listened closely!]] I didn't start the short work, but what I was doing was the offensive part. The I economic package has been decided and is now being implemented. You should look at it and read it. And since you always demand this and think it's all too late and far too little: You know what you're doing on the 24th. Did you do it here on September? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Take this back with the short work!]] They have – like everyone else – talked about inflation and no one has talked about the economic crisis. Now you've asked for it. You know, Mr Westenthaler, what would have happened if we had reduced VAT? Now we have falling inflation, and then we also have falling revenue in the State budget. I recommend you listen to the other one somewhere, not just to the one! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Gaßner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course it is true that we also need to implement the II economic package – with the demand-oriented measures that we need – but we also need defensive measures, and these are suspension contracts, short-term work, measures that exist. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] – Listen to me, colleague! We should consider how we are developing these measures, for example, linked to education and not just to implementing short-term work. I must also say, in this context, that I am quite sure that we no longer have the labour market in our area of competence. However, in the case of a representation of interests, it is long since no longer possible to enforce everything a hundred percent and unfiltered, but one needs the compromise, the compromise with the other. That is why I do not understand why you are so afraid of social partnership. Social partners are not given if I make what the Chamber of Commerce wants as a former representative, but if I do what the location needs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's where you got me wrong!]] I also find it a little devaluating when a newspaper – it was just one – writes that it is now being done “dog leaners” policy. I find that little creative; rather impoverished. Yesterday, someone in the “Report” said that social partners were client policy at the expense of the taxpayer. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What's new about finishing? 60 percent who have never got a finish now receive one. What about registration at start-of-work? The state benefits because social fraud is avoided. Mrs Schatz referred to the minimum wage of €1 000. Mrs Colleague, this is implemented! It's not right what you say! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Honey.]] That's why I come back to what the point is: Social partnership also has an inclusive effect. The integrative effect is that you have to implement what you decide – and there is the sovereign of decision-making – that you have to live. That is why I am also so proud and happy that in the Ministry of Economic Affairs we deal not only with the subject of economics, but also with the issues of youth and family. In addition to crisis management, we also need opportunity management. That is what interests the citizens: how their jobs look like in youth employment and the situation of families! [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] Together with Christine Marek, we will implement this inclusive life. I believe that this is a rather reasonable approach to helping cope with the crisis. We're not going to do this alone, I'm looking for it. So you're working together!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10556	Mr Matznetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10578	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Parliamentary Bucher referred to the “spiegel” editorial this week, in which the German chancellor is referred to as “Angela Mutlos”. The main criticism is that the Federal Republic of Germany is not responding sufficiently to this global crisis. Let's take a look at the difference: The Federal Republic of Germany is currently unable to provide a significant increase in purchasing power for the population. It has an economic programme, where it is just 3.1 billion € – one compares this with the size of the economy! - on the move. Austria is quite different here. We also have a large coalition, however, one which, during the election campaign, has already begun four days before the election to implement measures with a volume of more than one billion. We have a great coalition, which has already implemented the economic package I during the government negotiations with more than a billion volumes in this House and has now presented in record time a government programme in which we have a further discharge to the extent of – you can count on: 2.2 billion for wage and income tax reform, 0.5 billion for families, 340 million euros per year, which will be fully effective from the year 2, for early depreciation for SMEs – a total of more than 3 billion. Add the VAT reduction – you have all voted in favour – to the medications with 270 million, the 13. Family aid and the loss of unemployment insurance contributions are 4 billion reliefs for the population. This is the right way, ladies and gentlemen, because it is now relief for domestic purchasing power! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] It is also the right way for SMEs to be encouraged and that we now have liability volumes at the AWS, which will allow businesses to obtain at least a certain proportion of the financing that they do not receive from the banks, at least through the funding programmes. Part II: Of course, in the area of the economic package implemented by this Federal Government as a economic package II, we will take further measures that go beyond the early depreciation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Which one?]] – Think of the thermal renovation! The conversion of the thermal systems alone is an employment programme for thousands in the fields of gas, water and electrical installation. These are the measures that have a broad impact, which will also focus on small businesses, which will show that the programme of this Federal Government is better in this crisis and will deal better with Austria than in other comparable countries. We can be proud of this because this country has excellent workers, excellent businesses and a good government programme, with which it implements the crisis, since I am sure there will not be such a bad one. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10639	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10661	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I believe that this government is entering into an economic environment about which the former head of the U.S. notes bank Greenspan said four weeks ago that what is now more passive is only happening every 80 to 100 years. If we have taken the media today that there is a recession in the USA just as since the 1930s of the last century no longer exists, then we see the magnitude of this challenge. But every crisis is also a chance! If we have this form of government here, many political scientists and political experts in the past agreed that the great coalition – I admit, it is not quite as big as it used to be – was always very successful whenever there was a very big challenge, for example in the post-war reconstruction or in the accession of the EU. I think you can compare what is now a challenge of economic policy with the challenges I have just mentioned. Therefore: Every crisis is also a chance! I am convinced that this government team will deal with this crisis. We have better conditions than many other countries, no question at all. I've been saying for many years: You can’t pray for an economy, but “sickly you can” it very well! So let's be so confident to say: Yes, we face a major challenge in economic policy, for the generation of 40-50-year-olds it is probably the biggest challenge of their lives, but we have better conditions than many other countries! I would like to admit, in this situation, that someone who, as I have always pointed out, has to say, as I have always pointed out, the stability of state finances: We must take money into our hands in this crisis, no question at all! Economic and Social Package I, Economic and Social Package II, Tax discharge. As regards tax relief, I am very glad that this chapter is very, very concrete, and I must also say: For a family with two earners and two children, this tax relief means a savings of €2 500; in Schilling: 35 000 S a year – and this is what people feel, young couples with two children! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What income?]] Let me also say – yes, I am aware that we now have to take control of money – that I am very glad that this government programme contains a very ambitious budget path, because we must not overlook the fact that the crisis cannot be combated by the means that have triggered this crisis. This global financial crisis was triggered by excessive public and private debt in the USA. This was/is at the heart of today's global financial crisis. [[Abg. Strache: Bank managers have speculated!]] We should not make this mistake! That is why we need a balanced balance between strengthening competition, growth policies, economic programmes and tax relief, but also solid state finances, as they are enshrined in this government programme, just in the budget path. So I imagine the acceptance a challenge! Finally – and I congratulate all those who were praised yesterday – a good team! Good luck! They have the majority of Parliament behind them.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10722	This is what Mr Themessl has to say. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10744	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner, who does not perceive reality as it is, has already failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you, Mr Mitterlehner, fail, then I am not sorry for you, because you come from a protected area and can also return there, who, on the other hand, I am very sorry, are the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, which will have nothing at all of the measures of this Federal Government. Today, you from SPÖ and ÖVP have said everything you intend to do, and we have heard in the Federal Chancellor's Government Declaration that adequate measures must be taken quickly. – However, I have to ask myself what you understand from the Federal Government by the word ‘rasch’. I know that in the government path, it is planned that the tax reduction package or this so-called tax reform – which we can only call liberals as a collective reform – and that the second economic package should not be adopted until March or April next year. What to do What about you in the four months between?- Oh, my God! I have to ask you that. Are you waiting for the Christmas blessing or a divine input that it could perhaps get better by yourself?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In September 2008, there was an employment rate of 3,351 million employees in Austria. Two months later, in November 2008, we have a level of employment of 3,291 million employees. In other words, 60 000 jobs were lost within two months! But they from ÖVP and SPÖ are just pretending to be nothing but a “crazy”, that is, a small crisis! Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a world economic crisis, a crisis that has also fully covered Austria – but you are not in any other position to take action from the Federal Government! Mr Vice-Chancellor said here today: The banking package, the economic package, also stands for the so-called medium-sized billions. – You are right, Mr Vice-Chancellor, yes, that all stands, in the truest sense of the word, nothing moves; it does not matter to the people! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The bank package does not work, banks continue to give no loans, nor are they prepared to change the valuation basis in terms of loans, are not prepared to loosen the rules. And what is happening to the AWS package that you have addressed here, you know very well that this is not where it should be, namely when it comes to micro- and micro-enterprises, because it does not work! Even if companies have the opportunity to request via the AWS, a delay of time is expected, so that in the meantime the operation was fleeting, because one is unable to process it in time. Ladies and gentlemen of this Federal Government, if you do not think more than these ‘ideas’ you are planning in your economic package to resolve this crisis, then I can only say: Well, good night! Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner, you're right if you say you have to create a positive mood. – But you are called by the Federal Government! If you want to create a positive mood with such a government programme, I am already very excited about how you want to bring it over. Let me conclude by saying: It is absolutely impotent what you are planning, and it does not help us on the labour market any further! The small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria can get warm now, because winter is getting cold.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10832	The next item is the speech by Mr Petzner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10855	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a man here in our ranks who once spoke of “anxious makers” and “mutmakers” as well as that we need more courage makers and less fearmakers. This gentleman, who said that, you all know, is Wolfgang Schüssel. Now, if I have a brief review of what has been said by individual ÖVP speakers here, I have to say: There's a little bit worse in the Austrian People's Party, because the fearmakers are sitting up here today – and the Mutmachers are sitting down there! [[the speaker points to the government bank behind him]] [[pointing towards the middle of the plenary room]] That is the truth – and that is also the problem of this federal government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This federal government, which has presented its programme here today, is acting with fear. Fear is the engine that drives this federal government. They even fear each other from SPÖ and ÖVP. And this even goes so far that your government programme does not say what they want to do, but what they do not want to do, such as: We must not vote in favour, we must not vote in favour of the EU! and so on. Fear and distrust reign between SPÖ and ÖVP. It is also fear, which is called the reason for the formation of this so-called great coalition: the great fear of the crisis; the crisis coming, the crisis that is there. And that's what it says, the big crisis needs a big coalition. Why? – That's wrong! [[Abg. Strache: There is no large majority at all!]] They will not solve the crisis, Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, because you are the crisis! That is the truth, and that will all be very, very quickly observed in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is amusing that the only thing where you have shown courage in this government programme – and that is really the only thing; that is, on page 105 – is the following, and I am now coming to speak to Mrs Fekter, who is a very good friend of mine, from earlier times. [[Call the SPÖ: Oh, oh! How interesting!]] Under point 1.3. The government programme is called – I quote –: ‘A new, additional first-stop position will be created in the south of Austria to discharge capacity in the existing first-stop sites.’ There you had the courage of SPÖ and ÖVP to write this into your government program. I say to you at this point, not only on behalf of the Carinthians, but also the Steirer, the Burgenländer and the East-Tiroler: Do not dare to open a second “Traiskirchen” in the south of Austria! You would be severely punished for this in the elections; I guarantee that in this place. Already in March at the Kärntner Landtagswahl and in the municipal council elections, the ÖVP must be careful that it does not fly out of the Kärntner Landtag. That's the truth! Finally, this Federal Government and Mr Pröll can give me a nice quote from a large literate, which once said: Give me your fear, I'll give you the hope!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10958	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. 3 minutes speaking time – please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10981	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner, you have rightly stressed that it is important that in times like this optimism and good mood prevail. I'll give you all the right, but: What are you spreading with this government programme you are presenting here? – After all, nothing but obscurity and skepticism! Individual and few improvements included cannot conceal the fact that this program lacks strength, innovative projects and ideas. Especially now, it is important to think of new ways and also to go new ways. As an economist, I particularly lack three key areas in this programme. First: We urgently need, and now and today, an ecological investment offensive. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Old structures must not be cemented! We need a consistent and courageous rethinking as well as investment in the future: Investment in climate protection, energy efficiency and renewable energy. This is the future – and this will also help people and the economy save money, which will strengthen the economy. We have hundreds of companies in Austria that work very successfully here. Tens of thousands of jobs are created. And whoever makes the change the first, the companies involved, the economy that is moving forward, all these will benefit most. That is why we need to invest in climate protection and environmental protection now and today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We must also strengthen the more than 250 000 individual and micro-enterprises. It is time for this large group in Austria to be finally better safeguarded socially and more justly taxed. In addition, we hear daily the complaints of small and medium-sized enterprises and of the individual companies that they lack access to the loans. Here, too, you have to sit down and secure accordingly. We need a research offensive, because research is the key to further development and to safeguard prosperity in this country. We need more resources here. We need to invest at least € 100 million a year more and end the division of competence. Three ministries are too much! Ladies and gentlemen, one thing has to be clear to us, because that is safe: Today's research is tomorrow's jobs! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, the many headlines, keywords, words contained in the government programme, that is all luxury – and for luxury we have no money at that time.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11046	Mrs Bures has been reported next word. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11067	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I think that all Members of Parliament who have really studied this government agreement carefully and who have, above all, considered themselves to be the most important area of economic and employment policy must recognize that this Federal Government is assumes great challenges ahead of us. And that is not a question of a mutton or a fright, but a realistic view of where we are developing economically, which are the dangers that come to us. And I think that the Government Convention gives quite concrete answers to that. We tied up an economic package. We said: It is important to us that we invest in the infrastructure that we create investment incentives so that the private economy can also contribute to boosting the economy! We said: We want to strengthen the purchasing power of people so that they can have more in the wallet and afford more!, and we have therefore reduced taxes. I believe that this is a proof that this federal government is fulfilling the most important task it has over the next few months, namely to counter the economic crisis and to try to stop threatening unemployment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that the Transport, Innovation and Technology Division is also a very important Ministry of the Future, also due to the economic situation. In addition to the economic packages and the investments, this department will provide €20 billion by 2013 for the expansion of the railway, waterways and roads. This too is an economic shift and secures employment in Austria. This volume directly creates 50 000 additional jobs per year in the field of the economy, construction and construction sectors. Indirectly, with subcontractors, this means an additional employment rate of 125 000 jobs in Austria. That is to say, when we hear of forecasts that up to 100 000 people are more threatened with unemployment, which does not take as reality, because we do not want these cold forecasts to become individual fates, and that is why this government is acting on a massive scale in research and infrastructure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a real boost in infrastructure in the last two years. As a new minister, this puts me in the situation that 67 state-of-the-art railjet gardens are available, whose acquisition Werner Faymann introduced, which also means that we can set up better cycle schedules, that we can make a more attractive offer, a modernisation on the rails. We have also said that part of the economic package must be to contribute to the modernisation of railway stations, because this increases attractiveness and restores employment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that even the opposition very much appreciates our research programme, which we have agreed in the Government Agreement. Our target is 3 percent research rate by 2010 and 4 percent by 2020. Fortunately, this seems to have come to great agreement. I think if you have read our programme, you will have realized that in Austria we have not only launched the second largest economic package in Europe, but that it is really important for us to stimulate the economy, for more employment, for more quality of life. I look forward to working with the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11139	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. 3 minutes speaking time available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11161	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! A modern transport policy must be based on the needs of the people and the economy. At the same time, environmental protection and the protection of life and health must not be forgotten. The central part of every transport policy is public transport. It is an essential condition for the mobility of all people in all regions. Investment in public transport means investment in social justice. Public transport is also more environmentally friendly than driving your own car. “Let your car stand!” can only be practised if the public transport network is also customer-friendly. Therefore, € 700 million will be invested in the rail sector alone. This money helps the companies of the construction industry and actually all Austrians. Public transport without the ÖBB is not imaginable. In order to further improve the work and supply of the ÖBB, it takes a powerful, modern infrastructure and powerful companies. High house! Not only for passenger transport, but also for freight transport: away from the road, towards the rail. The situation in the area of rolling land road and connecting companies to the railway is to be further improved. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know Austria is a transit country. Every year thousands of trucks roll through Austria and burden the environment with their exhaust gases. Especially in the transit area, effective, cross-border relocation of transport from road to rail is only possible in European cooperation. It is also important to compensate for the competitive disadvantage of the railway against the road. High house! In 2007, there were 686 traffic fatalities in Austria. Although that is the lowest level since the beginning of the records, nevertheless, every dead person is too much. The visionary plan that there are no more deaths on Austria's roads is to be pursued with all its power. I am pleased that the new Federal Government is expressly committed, although as a long-term objective, to ensuring greater transport safety with numerous measures. High house! Alcohol at the tax is not a cavalier's crime. It costs many innocent people life. Here, too, awareness raising needs to be enhanced. I am pleased to be able to work together with this new Federal Government for Austria over the next five years.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11210	The next item is the report by Mr Eßl. Available speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11231	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! What do the citizens in our country expect from this new government? That is the question that arises. I claim that the government will recognize the problems, face the challenges, and find answers. If we have followed the words of Vice Chancellor Sepp Pröll, we know that there are three central objectives to be achieved: mastering the crisis, strengthening the economy and helping people. On this path there are some important building blocks: tax relief, the family package, the security offensive, the educational offensive, but also a business package. As far as the economic package is concerned, I believe that a tailor-made infrastructure is of central importance. It is important to modernise in some strategic areas that there are changes that need to be addressed with measure and objective, for example in the postal sector. We know that 2011 opens the market and we have to draw up and adopt a new postal law on the basis of an EU directive in 2009. In this respect, it is clear from the Government Agreement that attention must be paid to ensuring that, even after the full liberalisation of the postal market, a comprehensive, high-quality and sustainable supply of postal services to the population, especially in rural areas, is ensured. People in remote regions must not be disadvantaged; the confession is there. The expansion of transport routes is important for the future, and I should like to remind you of some specific concerns in Salzburg: Extension of the Tauernbahn at the Pass Lueg, second tunnel chain, connection Hagenau, safe transport connections in the Pinzgau. I should also like to point out a concern of the Lungauers, which I have repeatedly treated: We need a future-oriented orientation of toll tariffs, and this point is also included in the Government Convention. The problem of the double toe on the Tauernautobahn section with road pricing and toll disadvantaged the Lungauer economy, and the Federal Government is invited to find a solution here. Overall, I can say that the Government Agreement is a work that is quite appropriate to give the country a future, to give security to people in Austria and to open up opportunities for young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11277	The next item is the speech by Mr Vilimsky. Available speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11298	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! When I look at the course of today's session, this reminds me a little of this series on "Ö3" – I don't know if you know it – about the secret governmental protocols. What you celebrate here today is by far worse, more parodistic and more satirious than what we could hear on “Ö3” until recently. The only difference is that what you do is not to laugh, but to cry. This is by far the worst federal government that this Second Republic has ever seen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The wide-screen 16 : 9 format has remained, but the depth of politics has completely disappeared. And I was right when Clubobmann Cap tried today to explain to us with a variety of rhetorical flaws how good this red-black model really is. I know you're probably also suitable to sell an Eskimo an Iglu, you're doing this with a lot of rhetorical skill, but at least be so honest to admit here today that you don't even believe what you've told the House here! When we talk about infrastructure today, it is important to look at one thing that has happened as the current Federal Chancellor. Faymann took up his duties as Minister of Transport. I have proposed to him here before the House that he should invite the transport spokesmen of the other political groups to make such a round table of transport policy, because he is not the only one who has taken the wisdom for himself, there are good ideas in other parties. Whether it's the greens with Mrs Moser, whether it's the oranges with the Sigi Dolinschek, whether it's us from the FPÖ, everyone sitting here has good ideas, and it would be good to gather in an ideology-free subject such as transport policy once all ideas and see where there are cuts, how we can achieve more for people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Kurt Eder came to me from the SPÖ – you know, that's the one who couldn't reveal his references because of his high OMC relations – and said: Listen, S', that's a good idea, we're doing that, I'm talking to the Faymann! – To this day, it has not come to pass. Perhaps his successor, Mrs Bures, can make sure that transport policy is made in the interests of people. But what did Mr Faymann do in the time of his jurisdiction? – In the field of ÖBB, he has implemented two new holding boards with half a million euros a year. In the area of Asfinag, he has shaved away the entire board of directors with millions of effort. He watched as the AUA was flown against the wall, and in the traffic area almost all that could be ambushed. In the Committee itself, all the opposition mandate initiatives, which, in your opinion, do not deliver any content, have been scraped away, blocked. Perhaps today this can be the foundation for a new, better transport policy – the transport policy under Transport Minister Faymann was certainly not. – Thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11355	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Available speaking time: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11377	Mr President! High house! First, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, let me condolence you. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Me?]] Yes, I can't congratulate you, I can only condolence you that you've been to this government "into theatres". [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I wonder how you explain this to your party. Now go to your party and say: Hurra, we're second again! We have had a preferred national election, but we have become second again! Hurra, we're the second in the Federal Government again! Hurra, we're putting the vice chancellor back, 6 percent lighter, 11 mandates easier!Unknown term type: "%s".? – 15 mandates, I believe, are with you. Yes, 15 mandates are with you, 11 it's on the red side. What is this feeling if you could have become federal chancellors and are glad that you have become Vice Chancellors? That's why I'm telling you, you must have been misguided, and that's why I condolence to you. I can't possibly congratulate you on this government constellation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, Mr. Vice-Chanceller Josef Pröll, are certainly very happy that you have done your Onkel Erwin Pröll enough that you have done the “Uncle Conrad” enough. Your uncles are all happy, other uncles on the red side, too, but if your voters are happy with it, I dare to doubt it. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You don't have to worry about it!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, I am very honest, I really do not worry about you. I see this as an opportunity for the only bourgeois alternative in the spectrum, because that is our chance. If you continue, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, as you have now begun with your friend Faymann, then you will still lead the ÖVP into unimagined depths. I've been prophesying that to you today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The old folk wisdom of the Austrian, the learned skeptical Austrian: There's nothing better about it! And this government is one proof of the correctness of this folk wisdom. Because my colleague has complained that we would not make any concrete proposals, three concrete proposals: First: Why don't we save a State Secretariat for Propaganda? This is where Mr Faymann's previously highly paid ex-president and chief of cabinets is sitting – now he has become State Secretary for Propaganda, who is only there to organize government propaganda in the media so that they can ensure government-compliant reporting as in a large daily newspaper, throughout. This is a threat to democracy – and a government that needs a propaganda state secretary is already ahead of me, ladies and gentlemen. So: Save this State Secretariat! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second concrete proposal, Karlheinz head, in your direction said: In the future, let us not make the same mistake again that we are dispensing important funding for the economy through the detour of an ÖIAG subsidiary, where nothing will rain for two months, although we still need a special meeting in October! We said: directly through a fund, via a federal fund – and the money would already be in the economy. The banks still argue today about who is to receive what pension benefits, which office is to be provided for which supermanagers of these ÖIAG daughters. Third proposal: Turkey accession. What Mr Faymann has left out today is what we are going to tell the people. He has not said that he has not read what is stated on page 17 in the written version of his statement of Government: that this government is for Turkey's accession, ladies and gentlemen! A dangerous threat, I can only say.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11457	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Available speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11479	Ladies and gentlemen on the government bench, in the high house and at home in front of the television screens! They were now witnesses of efforts, confessions, and intentions. Interestingly, today the Federal Chancellor has said that we should measure this new government by its efforts, efforts and commitment. I believe, however, that what people need most is that this government, which finally brings together people sitting here on the government bank, finally brings something into the way of something that is really useful to individual people on the spot in everyday life. It is precisely because, Mrs Bures – I would like to address your area in particular – that is very, very much in the arrogance. Mrs Minister, what's useful Your 20 billion investment package in the infrastructure sector is very specific to the commuters, to the people who are in front of public transport daily, who are waiting for a daily seat to see whether they do not have the waiting time, the delay in trains in their daytime budget? – Nothing is useful to them! I can show you this by a very specific example, because the major infrastructure construction measures you were planning – € 700 million has also been mentioned by the Federal Chancellor in his presentation – serve to ensure that railway lines become high-performance, that speeds of more than 200 kilometers per hour are achieved. Just, Mrs. Minister: There is no money for this – your statement of government does not mention any additional means – that there are really more trains there, that there is an increased range of trains for everyday life, that there is more attractiveness in the individual vehicles, that the buses are better connected with the train schedules. You don't have any money for that! – Mr Faymann really left us with all her solubility and inadequacy in this construction site. We have no transport forecasts in this declaration of government, first of all in this government programme – there are no such forecasts – second, no overall transport concept and thirdly no concerted package of measures, such as this billion funding can at all be drawn up! It's debt making! It is debt making for large-scale construction projects, for the construction lobby, but not for the benefit of people, because: What good is it for me if I come from Vienna to Salzburg at a fast pace, or perhaps still to Munich et cetera, if the trains are totally untimely, if the comfort does not fit, if I stand constantly in the rain in my daily way to work, in the wet, in the cold wind area and again trains fail? Mrs Minister, what we need is a public transport initiative that offers more quality to local people! It's not done with a gift for the Baulobby. Mrs Minister, I would like you to create jobs for people, especially in the housing sector. They come from this sector themselves. You know very well: 1 billion € in the residential renovation area means more than 25,000 jobs – 1 billion € in the motorway area, on the other hand, 9 000 jobs. You can count. Please take the billions in hand, but for things that benefit people every day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11524	Mrs Fekter is speaking next word. Available remaining time: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11545	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! Mr Moser, you have spoken to Minister Bures, but since I have negotiated the housing package, I would point out that your attention should have been lost, that we are taking a lot of money into the hands of thermal renovation in residential construction, and that infrastructure projects are intended to create jobs so as not to lead to unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Unfortunately only 100! We need 300!]] And that benefits people, Mrs. Moser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the security field, I am responsible for combating crime, but also for asylum and integration – and all three areas are equally valuable to me. [[Abg. Petzner: What about the first recording center?]] That is to say, in the area of crime control, we have put in place very specific measures in the Government Convention, which we are taking in new ways, especially in the field of security. It is not enough to take the prey from the thieves and the burglars and to display them on a free footing. We need to ask them for a security service that ensures the procedure, which then includes the penalty, which compensates the victims and ensures damages. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This will not make the criminal energy so attractive for Austria anymore. With regard to the first reception centre, Mr Petzner: It is true that the burdens we have if we grant asylum if we give protection to those who have been persecuted, but if we also deal with procedures concerning those who do not belong to Austria at all, but, for example, in Poland, would have to wait for their procedures, that these burdens we have with these procedures are not evenly distributed in Austria. [[Abg. Strache: You should send back those who come from safe third countries and not take them up!]] [[Abg. Strache: Those who come from safe third countries should send you back,...! – That’s the mistake that happens!]] There are federal states that carry more heavy loads, such as Upper Austria or Lower Austria or Vienna, and then there are federal states that still hold back and de-olidarize a little. [[Ruf:In Attnang-Puchheim...]] [[Abg. Strache: You should ensure that those who come from safe third countries are not included here!]] That is why the quotas must first be respected, namely from all the federal states alike. For this the federal states have voluntarily explained themselves – and now some do not comply with these quotas! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner, who refers to a document kept up-to-date by him]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tell us which federal states!]] [[Abg. Strache: The Ministry of the Interior has not complied with the legal requirements, Mrs. Federal Minister!]] And the second, next to the observance of the quotas: It is also necessary to distribute the infrastructure evenly across Austria! We have a first-shot center in the West, and we have a first-shot center in the East. But we don't have one in the south. Therefore, we will start looking for a location, the plans will move forward and then find a consensus that we will also get a first-shot center in the south. [[Call BZÖ:Where? Where?]] [[Abg. Street: If you send the abusers home, there will be no lack of space!]] It must contribute equally to all the federal states! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Send the abusers home, then there is no lack of space!]] Let me mention a completely new and innovative instrument that we are introducing for immigration: We want to direct immigration to the interests of Austria. In other words, it must be taken into account, first of all, that when you come, you can bring the language with you a qualification, thirdly, take into account the needs of the labour market, fourthly, that you are self-sustainable and, of course, unchallenged. – With this “red-and-white-red card”, we will take new paths in migration, in the sense of Austria, for all our benefit!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11739	Mr Abbe-ordered Pendl. Available speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11770	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that in one of the most difficult economic situations of the last decades in which we are now, there is only one thing that really counts for the people of our home country, and that is security, and that is, security, because: People need the security to have a job, they need the security to get an education place, a childcare centre, as well as the security that, when they get sick, they have the best medical care. [[Abg. Neubauer: Who prevents you from doing so?]] [[Abg. Strache: This is where the reality shows that we are in very uncertain times!]] They need a social environment. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to this for hours, I have to say: It has only been possible to get out of this federal government, because people in our home country simply have confidence in this government. And this government will not disappoint people either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now some important points concerning security in the narrower sense. I wonder, because some have, I think, forgotten everything they have told us over the past few months and over the past few years. There are now for the first time more planning places for the police. I believe that not only the thousand more are important, Mrs Minister, but also improved training, improved equipment, many new methods of investigation – I do not want to repeat all of this. But one thing we should do here today: thank our colleagues from the executive for their heavy service, dear friends and friends! [[Abg. Booker: Thank you!]] That's what we should do and not forget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: But do not leave them in the rain! The colleagues are not just leaving in the rain, but they are strengthening their backs.]] Another thing: Next week, we will discuss a God here, thanks to really fair new salary for the next year, and I would like to thank all those who have contributed to it, because this is also an important contribution for our colleagues in the public service, who hold their “head” – under quotation marks – for all of us. This should at least be put out of the question, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this government programme with Chancellor Faymann, with the Vice-Chancellor, with the ladies and gentlemen on the government bank is really the approach to give people in our homeland the security they need. I'll invite you all: We work for our beautiful Austria, for our Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11865	Next item is the report by Mr Kößl. 3 minutes speaking time available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11886	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! But above all: Madam Minister of the Interior! I would like to congratulate you very warmly on yesterday's Angelobung, and I would also like to congratulate you on this government programme in the field of security, which bears your handwriting very much. It can therefore continue the successful path in the security field in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Security is a central issue for people in our country, and I believe that we are called on to fulfil these tasks in fact, so to speak, to meet this feeling of human beings. And here – and I really mean everyone here – we have the task of sharing the to create a political framework so that the police can do an efficient job for the population. I will make my contribution to this, and I call on you to join us here as well. The present government programme is comprehensive, balanced and forward-looking and provides answers to the challenges of the future. Especially are the strategies for combating crime mentioned here, such as cross-border police cooperation, enhanced cooperation with the German army, Europe-wide training strategies – I believe international crime can only be combated internationally, and therefore it is important that we also work internationally in the police sector – an increased concentration on DNA evaluations – we also know very well that the evidence is becoming increasingly important in the field of justice, and therefore it is necessary to act more effectively here too. I am very happy, of course, about the increase of the executive from 800 to 1,000 training places per year. This also says, of course, that in the future we can keep the staff strength of the systemised staff level on the services. This means more security, and this, of course, also means more preventive security for the population. I also feel that the changes in the area of asylum are very positive, where abuse opportunities are restricted and greater attention is paid to integration. And immigration is no longer regulated by the quota arrangements as before, but tailored by the award of a “red-and-white card”, a card that is awarded only to those persons who are actually needed on the labour market. In this sense, Mrs. Innenminister, I wish you and your team all the best and look forward to a really good cooperation in the sense of security for the people of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11943	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. Available speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11965	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! If Mr Pendl from SPÖ thanks the executive officials and also the judicial officers in every speech in a truly commendable way, then one should also mention that, although one is always expressing a thank you, when it comes to protecting the executive officials, including the executive officials, there is no one who does that. Once you look at how dangerous the executives live in part when they help the state's monopoly of violence, you have to find that the executives always have to justify themselves and then often have to expect very long procedures. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, I am very glad that you have not spoken today about the “feel of security”. Her predecessor has always been talking about security. – We do not need a sense of security, but we must ensure security in this state and the security of people in that state! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then we'll take a look at how you'll deal with schinasylantum in the future. Believe me, you're not the Maggie Thatcher from Attnang-Puchheim! We have already seen that in some other areas. The ÖVP has already shown a certain schizophrenia. It's about Law and Order and that you have to help the rule of law break through – and then you look at the case of Zogaj: [[Abg. Strache: Still inactive!]] That's where the ÖVP played a very interesting role. First, Mr. Landeshuptmann Pühringer of the ÖVP has worked to ensure that the Zogaj family must stay here – and to this day, Mother and daughter are in Austria, although they are illegally detained here! I can only tell you here how absurd this situation is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From 1999 to 2007, we, the Republic of Austria, have financed the German army deployment in Kosovo with €255 million. We are trying not only to create security there, but also to maintain it, and to ensure that people can also build up there. But what do you do with us? – With us it is so that you will still be rewarded for an illegal stay that you can take the path of an application marathon here in Austria that you will stay until it says: Well, now we can't move anyone off! [[Abg. Strache: Now he's been illegal for five years, now he's supposed to stay there at all!]] We really have to make sure we are safe here. Be consistent once! We'll definitely look at your fingers.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12039	The next item is the speech by Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12060	Mr President. High house! Dear Members of the Government! The programme we have to focus on two points and say: It is empty and “stern-rich” – the latter for the simple reason that a total of 80 projects are not financially insured, including many important family projects such as the father’s month, the nursing fund or increased family support for disabled children. The programme before us is not a major challenge, nor will it meet the challenges of the future. It is at best a late crisis management programme. It's not a programme of renewal, it's a flawed opportunity. – I only say tax relief or health reform. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is not a courageous programme, because, although the health insurance system is being closed to large amounts of money, it fails to implement structural reforms in this area, such as the merger of social security systems. And: It is a programme of working groups. It is a pity that the Minister of Social Affairs is no longer present, for his area is an example of this "workgroup government programme": When I read here that working groups are set up on the topics of heavy work, on the merits of the pension relationship, on the evaluation of the right of compensation, on the pension contribution for low benefits and on the pensioner price index, I wonder what we need the policy when working groups do everything. And then it says where the working groups do not continue, the social partners will be involved. [[Abg. New builder: Disengagement of Parliament!]] I think that is not a political programme that is geared towards the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also a programme of broken election promises. It is not only about the broken election promise as regards the EU referendum, but also about the so-called hackler regime. The SPÖ election programme for the National Council election is worded as follows: We adhere to our principles that, after 45 and women, after 40 years of work at the age of 66 and 55 years of age, men retire without deductions. [[Abg. Dolinschek: To 66 do you want to turn it up?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Government team where there are Your principles? Did you also throw your principles overboard in this area? [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Let's look at the area of families: Families are promised so much, but we don't believe it until the facts are on the table. Much of what we have requested is now suddenly included in the program, for example the Free Kindergarten. I am happy when he comes, but still 3 months ago, 14 days before the election, the Black Council of State from Upper Austria said “Free Kindergarten is populist”. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[the speaker shows a newspaper article]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Where's that?]] – The credibility of the ÖVP as a government party! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are going – the Federal Chancellor has said we should give him his efforts...
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12157	Ladies and gentlemen, you are already half a minute over time. Please, let's finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12184	We will not measure this government and this chancellor in their efforts, but in their actions and in what they do for the people who need it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from BZÖ have our own ideas, and we show how to do it better and how to implement it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12226	I would like to draw your attention once again: I have to pay attention to the time – 3 minutes are short – otherwise the last rounds will no longer go out. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then look at the speaking time of Mrs. Csörgits!]] .I will tell my colleague Dr. Graf to look closely at the time in the future. Next, Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12261	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the screens! What really distinguishes this federal government from Jörg Haider in terms of dealing with the highest court decisions? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Leave the Jörg Haider alone!]] I'd say nothing. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Jörg Haider has ignored high court decisions – in the case of bilingual town boards. [[Abg. Leave Dr. Haider alone, Mrs. Korun!]] And this new federal government ignores the highest judicial decisions in the field of residence law. The Constitutional Court has said that there is a fundamental right to family and private life. This fundamental right is to be implemented, and it is not a question of bitters. And what does our new Federal Government do? – It disregards this highest court judgment and introduces a new "neighbourly procedure" where a Commission is already being set up, in which the head of state concerned and the mayors concerned are to sit, according to the motto: [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, don't!]] If I don't know any more, I'll start another working group. Those concerned about whose fundamental right to family and private life is concerned will again and again be degraded to bitters, who are allowed to look for so-called godfathers who, well-knownly, are to sign commitments for at least five years. We ask ourselves: Who can afford that? What humanitarian organization, which private person can afford a so-called sponsorship? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] The persons concerned then go to these commissions, and the mayors and the national leaders are to carry out a so-called degree of integration examination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] There you can only say: After good night! – In view of the number of cases, the national leaders and the mayors concerned will obviously spend the next five years in these commissions to carry out these tests on the ongoing volume. [[Abg. Grossruck: What do you have against mayor?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government! That's a problem refusal. This doesn't solve any problem, and you ignore the fundamental right to private and family life. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Short to the chapter Integration: Integration is one of the topics of the future for Austria. What does the Federal Government do? - That's nothing! It establishes a so-called National Action Plan – NAP. I claim that ‘NAP’ is the abbreviation for ‘Next Working Group Process’. It's probably the 56. Round table on integration. For example, integration becomes the PR-gag for the government and employment therapy for experts and NGOs. [[Abg. Großruck: I don't know what you're talking about!]] What has become of the process initiated by the previous Minister of Integration, the so-called Minister of Integration, the Minister of the Interior? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Would you have kept silent!]] - Obviously nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12408	Ladies and gentlemen, the final sentence is five words. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12423	Integration means equal opportunities, equal rights and participation in society. This government programme will certainly not succeed in integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12454	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is speaking. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12475	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The prosperity of our country is decided in the classroom. Education is therefore at the heart of the work of this Federal Government over the next five years. We will continue the reforms begun with full commitment and Elan, because we need the best schools for all children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the forthcoming reform projects, the Federal Government would like to add €50 million in a first step, in addition to the funding of the important reform projects decided by you, ladies and gentlemen, before the end of the last legislative period: smaller classes, teaching and matura, small groups, education standards. This means, at the end of the legislative period, €400 million more for education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Investments in modern school buildings also have the highest priority. Our school investment programme with a volume of €1.7 billion will be implemented. Through the economic programme of the Federal Government, we will already invest €600 million in better schools for our children in 2009 and 2010. What's going on? Be concretely different from today in 2013? First: The smaller classes will be real in 2013 Austria-wide. Secondly, The mandatory free-school year for all five-year-olds leads to a good success for all children at school and it is obvious that all children who go to school in Austria have the right German language. Thirdly, The New Secondary School is established in all federal states until 2013 – and it will come. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Fourth: The teaching profession is again a highly regarded profession in 2013. We have an attractive right to serve and a new teacher training with admission procedures. Fifth, you open a bottle Education standards and standardized maturity testing are fixed components of everyday school life in 2013. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: School as a whole, really?]] I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to go this way of education reform together with me. I want us to be proud of our schools, our teachers and our youth together. In cultural policy, we are committed to active artistic and cultural promotion. [[Abg. Neubauer:... Rotunde in Innsbruck!]] The Federal Government has committed the increase in the budget by €20 million in a budget path for the first time. In addition, we will also implement investments in cultural buildings within the framework of the economic package. We confess to increase the basic fee for federal museums and theatres, to enter the Federal Museums free of charge until the 19th century. Year of life, and also the budget of the Austrian Film Institute will finally be increased to € 20 million. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The increase in the participation of the population, especially young people, is my declared cultural concern. A cultural nation like Austria allows for new things and maintains the treasures of the past. Cultural life cannot be ordered, and it cannot be planned, but it can be promoted and made possible. – For this we stand, for that I stand as a Minister of Culture, for which I stand as Minister of Education. I am looking forward to working together in the Federal Government, and I am looking forward to working with you. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Respect and appreciation are important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12569	Next, Mr Mayer. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12590	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Mrs Minister, first of all I have a very pleasant job: On behalf of many of you who have to do with educational work – teachers, educational activists, to adult education, especially parents – I can thank you for being with you again in the Federal Government, because after the long meager years, many have gained great hope that you can continue what you have started. That's guaranteed now, and we're glad. I would like to give this thanks. We're glad you're back on board. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we all know how crucial a training for the life-form of the individual is, but also for the preservation of our welfare society as a whole. This important knowledge has also been expressed in the government programme under discussion. The planned measures of the government for school and education go far beyond the chapter Education, Science and Research. The government programme is filled with support for children, young people and families. Lifelong learning is more crucial than ever, and it is also clearly defined: It should begin in childhood – and also begins there – and continues in adult education. Claudia Schmied's reform path started very hard two years ago. At the time, she said her goal is to bring Austria back to the international top. And – and also as a schoolman who is still doing his work on a daily basis – I underline that – individualization means your magic word – to promote weaker and to demand stronger; Money out of double-tracks in the administration, into the individual promotion of our children. We must not throw away any gifts, therefore: developing and improving day-care and education; enhancing early education – for me the biggest challenge of the next few years; bringing together teachers' training; training guarantee for up to 18 years; creation of common school standards; new salary model and expansion of school autonomy. I invite everyone to join this new Austrian educational path of Claudia Schmied. With this programme, which is available today, we have the opportunity to get where we belong, namely to the international summit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12634	Mrs Fuhrmann is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12652	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I can help my previous speaker when it comes to the fact that this educational chapter is one that we can really be proud of, because it is not the focus of the discussion on structures, but because, on the one hand, it is really about the quality of the education system, but also about supporting young people on their way of education, in their education careers as much as possible. [[Abg. New builder: That means you're also for the entire school?]] I am very glad that the ÖVP has succeeded in leaving its handwriting clearly in this educational chapter. I would like to draw up four areas in this regard: First of all, it is about the child's well-being that we want to focus on, and that is starting – my previous speaker also mentioned this – in the kindergarten. We want an education plan for kindergartens, but we also want – it is clear that this comes from the ÖVP, as Federal Minister Hahn in Vienna has called for a long time – that at least the last kindergarten year – as the government programme now says – is contribution-free for all children of this country in the morning. I think this is a good and important investment in young people, especially when it comes to supporting further career opportunities and social inclusion, but also to promoting language. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] But the individual education career also takes on a high priority with us. So I am very glad that in the educational chapter we were able to very clearly anchor the freedom of choice. Another point which is crucial in the context of education careers is vocational orientation. We know that young people need better support at several levels of school than before, on the one hand when it comes to developing in early years – from the seventh to the ninth school level – but on the other hand also later in higher education. But it is also about quality assurance. Since the development of education standards has been addressed, I must say that this is not only being discussed in the last two years, but that I have known it as a member of the teaching committee for six years. I hope that this government can actually implement it. The same applies also to the further development of modularization within the AHS upper level. But also the school partnership is a topic that is especially important to me when it comes to creating a feedback culture between students, teachers and parents. Finally, the best teachers should be responsible for our children. That is why the teaching programme should be reorganised. Teachers should also be rewarded for their performance as much as possible. I think that a modern right of service and remuneration is more than necessary. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In this sense, I believe that you can agree with this educational chapter with good conscience. I invite all parties to make their contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12708	Now comes Mrs Mag. Inconsistency. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12729	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know if you have noticed that no word on cultural policy has been said in the government statement by Federal Chancellor Faymann. This, ladies and gentlemen, shows the importance of culture in this new government. If one reads through what the government programme offers in this way, one really has to demand a cultural policy turn as a liberal. Our call for cultural policy is: Everything that preserves our identity, everything that strengthens our identity, must be promoted, because the preservation of identity is the subject of conscience of our era. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The reason for this call is two major social changes over the last decades: on the one hand, the disastrous immigration policy of recent years and decades, and on the other hand, the influence of left ideologies aimed at destroying our value structure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the Greens: Where do you live?]] However, the longing for meaning in life and the desire for values now dwell in man’s heart. Above all, the youth has realized that we have free values such as home, family, love – If you can't bear it when you talk about the beauty, the good and the truth, then that's your problem! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know, for the left it's kind of a creep when you talk about home, about love, and about friendship. On the other hand, these are values that are necessary in our society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is probably a reason why the youth has given us confidence and not the other parties. Now we have the government programme. Significantly, of these 267 pages, 7 pages remain for the culture. Mr Cap, you said today that one should also praise. I have to tell you, however, it is very difficult for me to praise this. On the contrary, certain things are even a real tragedy, for example – now I have to address you, Mrs. Minister – the topic of the promotion of young people in the field of musical education. Although there is a feasibility study for a training offer in the field of pop music, the whole area of Vienna’s classics is out of place. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I return to our call, to our maximum: We believe that preserving and strengthening our identity is the subject of our conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12803	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12824	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, whose number has now fallen to a third! The fact that the declaration of government must be kept at a time like this one with financial and economic crisis cannot be blamed on the current government. As we have heard today, all of us are not blind - not Members, nor the government either. It is clear, however, that we must take some resources to counter it. The 100-billion package, which we have only recently decided together, but which has not yet been implemented, does not currently help the Austrian companies, nor – at all – the Austrians, because it has to be implemented first. The tax relief in the amount of: 2.2 billion, on the other hand, is actually very micky, because it would have to be taken over much more, namely 4 to 6 billion, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The loss of real wages in Austria has led to a loss of income in recent years by wage tax, which has also weakened the internal economy. It is therefore important to counter it. I am already glad that the ÖVP has turned over and the tax reform has been preferred. – You can always be failed. We've been asking for this all year long. That this has been done now is all right. However, fees and charges will continue to rise, but no one says that. Thus, the advantage resulting from these milky measures will be re-emerged. It is therefore necessary to act. In the past, a minimum wage of € 1,000 per month has been decided, but it is gross and applies only from 1. January 2009, in contrast, there is a minimum guarantee of €747. 1 000 € Gross minimum wage is net 840 €. Where's the difference? This is already being eaten up by the increased spray prices when driving to the workplace, ladies and gentlemen. There will have to be reversed. Now a word about the social partners, which – as they are now also mentioned in the Constitution – are increasingly represented in the government. To this end, I must say: I am already concerned when I read statements such as those of the President of the Industrial Union, who calls for a wage ban of a quarter - 25 percent wage reduction in short-time work! If there is nothing wrong with this, then he should say good-bye, for we do not need such economic captains in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner has re-examined the deal. I'll have to give him the following: It is intended to ensure that pension funds have a minimum guarantee regarding interest rates and that the percentage is increased from 1.53 to 2.5 in particular, so that the second pillar in the framework of employee care also has something for the employees. Now again to the semi-governmental sector in Austria: Post, Telekom, AUA and so on. There are managers there who do not really do anything to question the whole ÖIAG, because we do not need managers who only close businesses and cast out employees in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Innovative ideas for the future are in demand, ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, I heard the sign, I have come to the conclusion. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I give this Federal Government the following: The key to maintaining and safeguarding our solidarity system with the economy, labour market, health and pension system lies in administrative reform and state reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12903	Mr President, those were at least three conclusions. Mr Walser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12928	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Today we have heard very full-bodied words: Our education system is the key factor for the future, in the classroom, and the future of our country, and Austria's education system must become the world's peak. - Yes, it has to. Unfortunately, in the past we have taken steps in the wrong direction. Our status quo, which we can show on international results, is embarrassing. Austria falls back year after year. Our system is one that is ill at all corners and ends, unfortunately in all areas. We have also heard today that the opposition should not only criticise, but also make proposals. Please, we've been doing that for years. We have been telling you for years that this system, Mrs Fuhrmann, is ill, and that it is not just a matter of content. Of course we have to go towards the general school. Of course we need all day school. That's what every expert has to say. These are our proposals. Look at Finland, look in those areas of Europe where the results are best where you can be proud of the students and the achievements they provide! Unfortunately, this is not the case in Austria. Its programme consists mainly of headlines, full-bodied statements, and it is to be feared that the concrete fraction – especially in the ÖVP – has prevailed, the refusal of reform, which has been indicating the tone in Austria for many years and has prevented us from finally creating the link to the European summit. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In Austria we need the massive promotion of pre-school education, everyone knows. But it does not happen. What's in this government program, the half-day kindergarten, is already a reality. I admit that there is a relief for families financially, but pedagogical that is not progress. We urgently need the all-day kindergarten, we urgently need to extend it to two years, and we urgently need language promotion, especially for migrant children, but not only for migrant children, but also more and more for children from indigenous families who often do not receive at home the support they would need, and which we have to offer the opportunity to be promoted, in kindergartens. So we have to put the education pyramid back on our feet and not just have reservations. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Coming to the end: Mrs. Minister, our school needs a intercessor. Unfortunately, I do not have the impression that your entire use of the school is currently valid. If you need pressurization, we Greens guarantee you'll get them. The parents, the pupils, the teachers in this country can rely on the greens to stand by their side.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12994	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Spindelegger. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13015	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to use this general debate on the Declaration of Government to present some of the priorities of foreign policy for the next few years. The first priority comes naturally from our task, which is just ahead of us. With 1. Next year, Austria will take place at the table of the members of the United Nations Security Council and will thus be a very important task – as I hope, to the satisfaction of all Austrians, too. to be more rich – to be fulfilled. We are well prepared for that. We have a team in New York with Ambassador Mayr-Harting at the top, which will really do everyday work in a profound way. But that it has come so far is particularly due to two personalities, whom I would like to say a special thank you today. This is, on the one hand, my predecessor, Mrs Ursula Plassnik, who presented the Austrian position and the Austrian goals for this membership of the Security Council in countless discussions, discussions and discussions. Austria has been elected in the first election. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Thank you very much, Ursula, that was really a good, professional work! And I think it's good that you're now in the National Council and can bring your experiences here. The second personality I would like to thank is Dr. Hans Winkler, a retired State Secretary. He has also been available to this House over and over again and in many service trips, in many discussions with his colleagues, he has made Austria a member of the Security Council. I would also like to thank Dr Winkler, although he is no longer here today, very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of what positive conclusions we can draw from this membership of the Security Council and what we can win for Austria as well. We will now have to sit at the table for two years in the Security Council and deal with countless conflicts. My big goal is to use this positive echo to re-install Vienna as a “threat of peace” in important questions. I believe that we have very good conditions for this and that we can also provide a service for the whole world in the interests of Austria with a dedicated programme after two years in the Security Council. Secondly, I would like to address a subject which, of course, is very important to many, especially to me, namely the issue of Europe. We all know that we have ongoing tasks to do – every Federal Minister in the Council, the Austrian parliamentarians in the European Parliament – and of course we need to conduct this dialogue. I imagine that we are not going out with a big advertising campaign and saying that because there is a bad mood, we will fight with advertising resources against it. I think it is important to listen and listen carefully now, to find out where this scepticism lies in the depth – and not to react with “recepts”, but to approach it in a profound and professional way. It is therefore appropriate to listen once and then take action. I would also like to mention a third priority which goes far into the future. In Austrian foreign policy, we also have the task of recognizing where there are future opportunities for Austria. I think we've done well with our strategy on the Western Balkans. However, we should go beyond that and see neighbourhood policy further. I therefore intend to make the Black Sea region a focus for Austria in the future. I think that would be very worthwhile. I cannot continue to carry out all the objectives, but I invite all the spokespersons of foreign policy, of Europe's policy, to agree on a consensus in foreign policy in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13106	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13127	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Foreign Minister, I would of course like to accept this invitation. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, this declaration of government makes it clear that the Austrian Federal Government is fully committed to European unification, to this most successful peace project in the history of our suffering continent, to a strong, modern Europe, which is also determined to assume social responsibility. We also make a clear commitment to developing this European integration work together in order to meet the challenges of the present and the future. Peacekeeping is a permanent task. Climate protection can only be achieved jointly. But the biggest and most acute challenge of our time is the right response to the financial and economic crisis and the associated social consequences. The people of Europe rightly expect a clear signal for the real economy, for the workers, for those who need the most help in these difficult times – but not only in the sense of acute action to avoid the worst, which has been discussed very often today and which is also being set the course for next week at the European Council, but it is very much about preventive measures in order not to create such a dramatic situation at all. Here too, we have agreed on common guidelines and have also taken them literally. Social cohesion, distribution justice, full employment, gender equality must go hand in hand with sustainable development and competitiveness. We agree that we need EU-wide minimum rules and a coordinated macroeconomic policy, that European social partners need to be more involved in policy-making and that, in view of the financial crisis, we need to work towards a coordinated and transparent, enforceable supervisory structure. We all know that there are different attitudes to these issues in the European context. All the more important is the determined, closed signal of the Austrian Federal Government to use itself in this sense across Europe and internationally. In this way I also stress the emphasis on general foreign policy, where it is our common concern to make the process of globalisation socially fair and ecologically. The opportunities for participation will be used here, for example in the UN Security Council, within the framework of the OSCE, to give just a few examples. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Development cooperation maintains good priorities such as women's promotion, but also focuses very strongly on other areas such as disease control. I wish the new Foreign Minister every good thing in dealing with his duties and I look forward to good cooperation with all the political groups in this House. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13176	Mrs Plassnik is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13200	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I wish this Federal Government first strength, courage, success on its way for the Austrians, for a strong Austria in a united Europe. What I want from all of us, including the Federal Government, is a European self-confidence. It is also about anchoring that in the population better. And, look, there's backwind, there's new headlines. I read in the paper today: The financial crisis suddenly makes the EU popular, “The new love of the Austrians for the EU”, “crisis makes EU vote increase”. [[Abg. Strache: There is the wish of the Father of Thought!]] Well, we know over a longer period, the mood is unchanged. It has its losses on the image that people make of the European Union. The crisis clearly shows that Europe must stick together. Only that makes sense. Two thirds of the Austrians believe that only with the help of the European Union, together and as a partner of this European Union, can the consequences of the global financial and probably economic crisis be addressed. The single currency, the euro, is a kind of “crisis protection factor”, especially for small and medium-sized countries. We are now experiencing this in quite an impressive way. Sweden and Denmark would like the euro. Hungary is considering how to predict and get to the euro as quickly as possible. I don't need to talk about Iceland at all. That is what we have now experienced so to speak. Europe protects, benefits Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this is at the heart of the matter. It will also be necessary to better explain the contexts. There is a good basis for this in this government programme. There are very specific measures to this end. There is a bundle of measures to strengthen confidence in Europe. This is and remains a priority concern of the Federal Government. There will be much more to do. I give three examples contained in this government programme, on the basis of new ways of providing a European image which corresponds to reality and non-medial distortions or negative wishful thinking – the mayors are required to be here in this House –: European profiles of communities, their own logo, an Austrian logo for the labelling of EU funding and youth, ladies and gentlemen, the extension of the programmes available here. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Foreign Minister, I wish you, your team and the entire Austrian Federal Government confidence, courage, success on this path! Foreign policy is teamwork. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13243	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13265	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Foreign Minister Dr. Spindelegger has given me hope in this respect, when he has acknowledged that there is a need for information and advice, but has said that the propaganda measures announced by the government programme on two sides must be reduced a little and reflect on what should happen. Mrs. Dr. Plassnik, my predecessor, in turn spoke only of propaganda, almost only, therefore estimated 60, 70 percent of the time of the so-called measures, these famous pages 228 and 229 of the government programme. You can of course learn about the EU, you can tell – yes, you have to do it – but we are not in Josephinism, with confidence. We should clarify, so to speak, shadows and light, and not expose people to a government propaganda. We're not in a phase where you can say: Everything for the people, nothing by the people!, but we are in a phase where it must be called: All through the people and everything for the people! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now, if I continue to review the programme and see what people are to be “selled” or closer to, so what vision they have of the EU, then I come to page 223, “European Future Plan”, where the EU is described as the government is thinking of the EU: "The EU must develop a European future offensive in order to ensure and dynamically develop the European model of life with its distinct social dimension in the age of globalisation." I don't know how to explain this to the people, how to get the sense of such a propaganda on the rampage. One thing we should honestly say: Which EU do we want? Do we want an EU like it today? Do we want an EU as it was a year ago? Or do we want an EU as it is developing? That means we want a stronger and more centralised EU? Or are we ready to set a limit? Are we willing to tell the people: So far, the EU is developing, then we are no longer participating!? – I believe that before we tell people anything, we should decide for the latter and then, starting from this border, say which EU we want. Just to say that the EU is the largest or the largest European peace work, is too little, because do you really believe, Mr Minister, that without the EU in the past 50 years Germany would have again waged war with France for Alsace-Lorraine or Austria would have considered a march into South Tyrol? Or what kind of threat and war scenarios do we think the EU would have prevented? At least I don't know anyone. Therefore, in the wake of the appeal of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, I should like to say that I am willing to do so and welcome it, but we should agree before, what we are talking about and what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13331	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 3 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13352	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! – The number of government members here has already been strongly decimated. When I turn to the government bank, I have to say: Mr Faymann, the Federal Chancellor, is no longer present. It seems to me that, after his "brillant" speech, he is already hidden like Mr Gusenbauer in the election campaign. - Well, start well! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call at the SPÖ: He'll come!]] Member of the European Parliament Eßl spoke earlier about government expectations. I have to say the expectations were very great, but what do we see? – The government programme is not fish, it is not meat, it is not meat, at least a bit of game meat. According to announcements and declarations of intent! The security sector is particularly poorly prepared, and I would like to talk about a few things. The criminal statistics are freezed again, you can read it out – one of the few concrete things that stand in there. [[BZÖ and FPÖ representatives are welcome.]] Mrs Federal Minister Fekter tightens Straster's statistical insanity – so in this context a headline could be in a newspaper. [[New condolences with the BZÖ as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ten car collapses in a road are only one case in criminal statistics! You have to keep that in mind once! Here is a turkt, here people are led behind the light. It can't go on like this! But when I read the new government statement, I have to say it gets even worse. It is also possible to keep very low the number of dawns that have occurred in the last days and weeks, but also for months to come, thanks to these turbid statistics. This does not make people aware that reality, which is an increase in crime after the Schengen accession of the East, is being concealed here. Small example: a truck theft in Lauterach, Vorarlberg. The truck has “migrated” to Poland, and the owner has brought it back and has to pay ransom money. – This is how “good” is the EU’s security policy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Minister for the Interior has spoken of security services for offenders who have been exposed to fresh action. – When I look at the Romanian bands: They have “safe ” the bags full of money, you can certainly get a lot. – So I think that's just theory again and nothing else. Mr Pendl praised the executive earlier. I think that's positive, but you should do more. They should ensure that the executives receive a decent salary, that the executives are paid better, that they receive an all-inclusive salary, and that, instead of the 200 officials, there are actually only 200: 1,000 instead of 800 new training places – something will be done in this respect too. Finally, I would like to mention that the entire staff representation of the FSG in the LPK Vorarlberg has resigned because of this government and all have laid down the party membership.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13440	Now comes Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13461	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here and also in front of the TV screen! The former Foreign Minister, Ursula Plassnik, has very well packed her criticism of the programme of this new government, I have found. It wishes this new federal government courage and strength and above all European self-confidence. – I would also like to ask her, this new federal government, because this European self-confidence is not included in the government programme. And I'm very sorry. [[Abg. Strache: Austrian self-confidence should be carried to Europe once! The Austrian self-confidence is missing!]] When I look at the government program from a little over one and a half years ago, from 2007: There was Europe's policy on the first side! Today, it is at the very end, somewhere at the very end, and I think that has symbolic value, namely for the division in European policy, which exists in this federal government. Chancellor Faymann said yesterday – today he did not say that – in the “ZiB 2”, the SPÖ insists on a national referendum on EU treaties. Vice-Chancellor Pröll said yesterday in the “ZiB 2”, it was a good compromise, against the will of the ÖVP would not exist. And we know very well that the ÖVP recognizes this kneefall of the SPÖ in front of the “Kronen Zeitung” with it. Why would Mrs. Plassnik no longer be in this government? So this division, this half-heartedness in the commitment to a common Europe, is also found in this government programme, because it is nothing specific in it. – Apart from this exit clause from the government: If one asks for a national referendum, then this government will do so. Otherwise, there's nothing really new about it. And we Greens are not to have for it. What we need in Europe's policy are also clear statements, for example on the social issue, such as a social card for Europe, where insurance services can be obtained in different countries, if you work not only in one country but in several. You'd need such a thing. As the speaking time is very short, the chapter on development cooperation. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, you have not said anything about this today. The text of the government programme says that the budget will be difficult to reach. I see this as saying that you want to take on global responsibility, but please don't cost it. Austria's back there. The Conference on Development Finance has just ended: Austria has to create 0.51 percent of gross national income by 2010 in accordance with EU agreement. In the program stands: It's gonna be difficult. . I already know that there is a financial crisis, but the commitment to global co-responsibility also means taking money for it, and a good opportunity would be to finally introduce the financial transaction tax at European level. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] You could agree to this next week within the framework of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13510	Next speaker: Ms Heinisch-Hosek. Four minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13531	Madam President. Members of the Government Bank! High house! Now I repeat very consciously something that has already been said several times today, and I say this very seriously: We are looking at economically very difficult times. And some may believe that it is perhaps not so important to talk about women's and equality policy in times when it is a matter of raising the economy and managing the financial crisis. But I think – and almost all or even all here in the house will agree – that the very opposite is the case, because it is the women who are the first to be affected in economically difficult times. Women work in poorly paid jobs, have part-time jobs, have jobs with low skills requirements, and these are exactly the jobs that are the first to be rationalized. It is therefore all the more important, I think, to make a demanding women's policy, to give women a strong voice and to represent the concerns of all women as best as possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I used to work for this, and I will continue this path very consistently as Minister of Women – quickly, decisively and together, as Chancellor Werner Faymann said today. It will be my central task, ladies and gentlemen, to make sure that women have jobs, and work from which they can live. Women need work, and the economy needs women. The economy cannot give up on the skills and potential and skills of women, and we all can and do not want to give up on them. [[Abg. Weinzinger: But the children need their mothers!]] We have a small margin at our disposal, which has already been said several times today, but we need to make the best possible use of this room. [[Abg. Weinzinger: The children need their mothers!]] I am therefore very pleased that it has succeeded in making a common commitment to the equality of women in the labour market in the form of the National Action Plan on Equality, and I guarantee you, Mr Colleague: I am already in dialogue with the Minister for Social Affairs and Labour, with my colleagues here in the government, with the social partners, and this is already the first step towards a solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also want to take further steps, of course, in the area of reconciliation between work and family, in order to meet the different situations of life of men and women. This includes, of course, further development in some areas: the income-dependent child allowance for further flexibilization, the mandatory last kindergarten year, the papal month to strengthen the father's participation. [[Abg. Weinzinger: What does the Papa month have to do with it? What the hell is this?]] All of this is to be implemented as quickly as possible, as well as, of course, the development of quality childcare facilities. I think it is a common goal of all the parties here in the house to make every effort to prevent poverty. Poverty makes people sick, poverty isolated, and poverty separates people. A very important step on the other hand has been taken with the introduction of €1,000 minimum wage, and this is especially helpful for women who are also most affected by poverty. Moreover, this applies not only to women who are self-employed but also to self-employed women who are, to a large extent, self-employed entrepreneurs and more than we believe are affected by poverty. We must also have an open ear for these, we must also bind our packages and fix them here. It is of course important to me, as the Minister for Women, to clarify – but in the near future, this is not possible – that many other areas, such as legal protection of equal opportunities, gender issues and the field of violence, will be my main focus, and I am particularly looking forward to good cooperation with the potential and strength of public service staff. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13641	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13663	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Equal opportunities, equal opportunities for women in the labour market, income justice and better reconciliation of work and family life are supported by important measures in the government programme. Women need work from which they can live. The new Minister of Women – and I wish you, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, a real success for us, for the women, for half of humanity – has already mentioned that this National Action Plan, coordinated by the Minister of Women, is already underway. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Children need their mothers!]] This is a very central point for women: an income to come out. We must take measures so that income shears do not disperse, and we will only do so in stages; immediately we will not be able to do so. But it is a great injustice when women earn so much less for the same performance than their male colleagues! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This government programme also includes many other measures, for example – and this is one of the darkest chapters we have to deal with – regarding violence against women, violence against women in the domestic field. Where women should feel most secure, they are often beaten and humiliated! And that's where we've gotten a lot on our way. The Anti-Violence Act is ten years old, but it is already the government's proposal to improve the protection of violence here, and the Government Convention also enshrines the regionalisation of the centres for the protection of violence. This is an important measure for women who need help who have been victims of violence, especially in rural areas, and this measure is to be further expanded. Another important requirement is the income-dependent child's allowance. It is about the fact that those who have received child benefits so far continue to receive them, but it is intended to be extended in the form that, in order that fathers also have more incentive, if income is higher, more karenz money can also be obtained. That is, I think, an emancipatory approach. We have long called for this, just like the papal month; here too the necessary one is enshrined in the Government Convention. The question of child care in connection with the compatibility of family and work is a very central question for women, for women with care obligations, for single parents. It is therefore important and necessary that the programme, which the previous Minister of Women has already begun, should continue to promote the development of high-quality childcare facilities with the countries. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This is a central measure on which we will continue to work, but which is already in progress. On the other hand, it has already been mentioned a few times today about the compulsory kindergarten year between the 5th and the 6th. Year of life and also about language early promotion for our migrants. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] And one thing I would like to mention at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13752	Ladies and gentlemen, that has already been the final point, you are already far above it! [[In the case of the SPÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. May. Worm.]] Mrs Schittenhelm's next speech. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13785	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Of course, the topic of women is not only written down in the government programme, but I very much hope that our new women's minister will also implement it. We women are increasingly determining the development of the working world. We all know that. We women have long taken on a role of individuality and partnership in society, and we women have developed and contributed to economic growth in recent years and decades. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. May. Worm.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, often women's and family policy concerns cannot be separated, especially if women also have children when children are their food point – and that is important and right that way, and that means a comprehensive policy for the national party's women's policy. [[Congratulations with members of the FPÖ]] [[Abg. You're right!]] Never in the life-form of women, ladies and gentlemen, has there been as many life models and life-forms as today. Today, women's lives are much more determined by the pursuit of professional activity, by career, competence and realization of their own ideas – and not by what others want, as was the case ten, 15, 20 years ago. And we must take this into account and give women their will and their ability, their creativity and their innovation, and also support women and their concerns. [[Abg. Strache: But also the freedom of choice!]] Nevertheless, although we have set milestones in women's and family policies in the era Wolfgang Schüssel and Minister of Women's Affairs Maria Rauch-Kallat, we have not been able to achieve a real equality of opportunity between men and women as regards the distribution of family and employment work. That's fact. The aim of our efforts must therefore be to speak, not of equality, but of equality and equal opportunities for all, ladies and gentlemen, who are well-regarded. Only through their own employment for women is full social security possible, and this is what we want for women here in Austria. They need this social security, and I am therefore pleased that this action plan will be implemented together with the social partners. I would like to address two points: firstly, gender medicine, which is a particular concern to me. We need enlargement, the continuation of research and diagnostics in order to prevent and treat gender medicine. – This is an essential point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] A second point is a special matter of my heart: The pension division has been in place since the second tax reform. We want someone doing housework and caring for children at home to have no disadvantage in calculating the pension. I hope that in the next five years, Mrs Federal Minister, this pension split will also find its precipitation. – Congratulations and all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13877	Mrs Gartelgruber has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13898	Madam President. Estimated representatives of the Federal Government! High house! If you look at the Federal Government's programme, even if you look at it superficially, it becomes clear that there will be little further development in women's policy in the coming years. [[Abg. Steibl: Good, but there is not much in the FPÖ either!]] A fundamental system mistake is that the model of freedom of choice in the Government Pact is not taken into account and that the unpaid but socially valuable work of women in the household does not receive any recognition at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, those who fail to create financial and structural frameworks so that women can decide for themselves whether they want to stay at home with the family or go the way into work will not only take women's freedom of choice, but also prevent healthy social development. Moreover, it does not correspond to the idea of many Austrians to extend their children from the cradle to the full-year period from one care facility to the next. The child loses contact with the family and is exposed to a certain level of stress when it is delivered daily to the care machine. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many women also suffer from this situation, although they are told by certain sides that only the care of their children is the truth. I also see a great manko as regards the improvement of the social situation of women. However, this important issue is dealt with in the government programme only in a few poor sentences. You are concerned about improving the situation of women in rural areas, but this is not only about training and political participation as suggested in your programme, but also about improving the income situation, especially among farmers, would be an urgent task. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Not even with regard to the objective set out in the government programme to promote women in employment and to employ more women in the public service, concrete action seems to have been taken. The majority of these are dirty statements of intent, such as the gloomy remarks in the chapter on internal, judicial and national defence. In summary, however, it remains to be noted that the women's policy programme of the new Federal Government is anything but ambitious and too short in its financial orientation. There's no doubt that a big throw looks different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13951	Now comes Mr Mag. Darmann speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13974	Madam President. Estimated new members of this Federal Government! Values from two years Permanent dispute known old government members! Values At home and at the gallery you certainly did not wish for the most part this government that is behind me! High house! – This welcome had to be, even if I only have three minutes available for this speech. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: It's enough!]] Mr President, I know that you do not want to hear this because it is embarrassing for your government programme. [[Call the SPÖ: What?- Oh, my God!]] You have to have a lot more time, because it would have to be said so much today, especially – because the Minister of Science is behind me – about the future of education and science in our country. It is alarming that two fractions will continue to turn together on the screws of education and science, which have not been given anything in the last two years and have done everything to lower our science. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In particular, however, it should be stressed that the “black Peter” – which is perhaps a small word game – is one of the reds. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What was that?! A wordplay?- Oh, my God!]] But it is also said – and in this the focus of my remarks will be in the next two minutes – that security policy in this country – which has now been specifically addressed by Federal Minister Darabos and Federal Minister Fekter – leaves much to be desired. It cannot be said that in this government programme there are still only promises to continue to be made by the Minister of Defense, to look at our assistance at the borders and to continue to provide the Federal Army with security for the population, and to continue to do nothing to equip our soldiers who stand for much money at our borders but ultimately have no powers to finally provide with more competences. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is, our population is relying on a security service by the Austrian federal army, by the police, but our federal army must always resort to the police at the borders. - It can't be. There are other recipes. I remind the Minister of Defense of the concept of Carabinieri in Italy, which is part of the Italian army and which is acting in accordance with EU law at borders and everywhere else with police competence. This would be a way of ensuring the safety of the population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you have not given any explanations of intent in this government programme as to how you want to set up the federal army's budget. You know very well, our federal army needs a strong budget to ensure that only the core competence according to the Constitution is guaranteed. We don't have this money, even if You now want to re-acquaint yourself with the supposed savings on the Eurofighter last year. We will see if the ÖVP will agree. The fact is, our federal army needs money alone to ensure disaster and security in Austria. Finally, I should like to make a small correction to the words of Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] He has found that the population wants an actionable government. The fact is – and I welcome –: The government should also be willing to act. This has to be said here. It must not only stick to the words, but must also follow actions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14070	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Schwentner. I should like to ask the members of the club to do so in parallel. It's about speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14092	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! You can't repeat it often enough: There are too many men in this honorable hall. [[Interlocutory calls for representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Gartlehner: Should we go, or what?- Oh, my God!]] If we are to represent the Austrian population here, then something has gone wrong. Over 51.4% of the population of Austria are women. – They are not known to be aliquot here. In this hall we experience a historical low: It's only 50 out of 183 delegates female; that's only 27.3 percent. It is not just about representation, but also about the representation of women's interests. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is, of course, the question of the conclusions drawn by the new government, which, by the way, is only one third of women. What measures will be taken to ensure that women are equally well represented in politics and in the economy? And how can it be that what women do for our society is not sufficiently honoured; that part-time work is still female; that small employees are more than 70 percent female and that poverty is also female? I would like to join the programme of the new government: Unfortunately, this still reads like a short wish list to the Christian child, because only six pages of the total 267 are dedicated to women. References to concrete measures – that is already, but always only very short on the sides and on the sales side. [[Abg. Silhavy: You have read badly! A chapter on women's policy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I've read it very carefully, thank you. But the women's chapter is still very short. Gender budgeting is a foreign word, a legal minimum wage is not mentioned either – precisely measures that would affect women! No wonder, then, that the planned tax reform primarily benefits men. Every third woman in employment – i.e. 1.6 million women – will feel no relief. A national action plan on equality, as it stands in the programme, is beautiful, but we need binding action. Where do we find in this programme a proposal on how women are to get better paid employment and how to force qualified part-time work? – Very nice, we are happy to support you. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] There are no concrete budgetary approaches in the entire chapter. Not even the famous “sterns” – with which otherwise the passages are marked with budget reserve – occur. It is still nothing but lip confession, and we hope that these women's political very important lip confessions will be filled with women's political content. We Greens are very happy to support you, Mrs. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14173	Before I give the floor to Mr Dr. Hahn, I announce that the speaking time agreement with the clubs now looks like the next round is still under discussion, but that in the round of health – starting with Mr Stöger – and in the round of agriculture – starting with Mr Berlakovich, Federal Minister of Agriculture – the speaking time of Members is reduced to 2 minutes each time. It's going to be. The rounds after that are already outside the television time and can therefore be made a little more freer from the time dimension. Mr Federal Minister Dr. Hahn is now speaking. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14203	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! - I'm going to get that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: With the greeting half the speaking time is gone!]] I will concentrate on the essentials, Mr President. That's why I want to hold on: We want to continue the successful path of recent years in education, science and research policy. This means in the clear text further raising the quality and ensuring competitiveness in the European and global context. What is needed for that? – It is essential that we ensure that graduates and graduates continue to rise at universities and colleges. In this context, I refer to the successful pilot project Studienchecker, which is a very substantial, multi-stage study information at the higher schools. The next phase we are about to launch is to enable substantial, very concrete and high-quality studies to be carried out. It will also be possible to grant universities, within the framework of their academic freedoms, the possibility of qualitative conditions of access in the field of master and PhD studies, how the issue of quality assurance should have a central role in the coming years. Therefore, we also want to combine the various accreditation councils and quality assurance agencies under a roof brand, so to speak, so to speak, in order to export the Austrian scientific and educational system where desired and to be available with expertise. A third major area, which will be particularly important for us, is the promotion and real implementation of the Bologna structure, and especially the Bachelor's training – not only of training per se, but also of further development of the corresponding curriculum and above all of ensuring that the Bachelor's degree in the labour market is actually recognized as a full academic degree, both in the public sector and in industry and in the private sector. There is indeed a full degree, but there has been admittedly at the introduction of communicative hoppalas. Finally, it is certainly necessary that we develop a total Austrian university plan. I think there is a sense here with all the political groups in this House. This university plan should include the entire tertiary sector, i.e. the technical colleges, the educational universities, as well as the private universities, in other words, a whole consideration with the aim of looking at the complex budgetary possibilities, but also additional legitimate needs, where we can optimize and where we can coordinate in the offers regionally, thematically and, so to speak, also from the providers. It will also be necessary – and I hope that in the first half of the coming year – to introduce the UG-novelle of parliamentary treatment and decision-making. I am also pleased that the coalition talks have succeeded, some of the decisions of the 24. In the future, in September, to be thrown into a fascism that, as I believe, takes account of European needs, in particular the safeguarding of a continuing high-quality medical education in Austria for graduates of Austrian universities. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In view of the budgetary conditions, it will be necessary, as I have already mentioned, to raise the appropriate optimization potential. As always, the speaking time is too short, so I say only more: We will also pay particular attention to research across all the areas of responsibility, because especially in times of economic bottlenecks, it is necessary to invest in such future-oriented areas as research, development and innovation, and I know that the entire federal government is drawing on one strand. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14245	I would like to draw your attention once again: I will run out a little earlier with the next speakers. If the speaking time is not precisely observed, the round of agriculture will also be outside the television transmission time, because we are very close to time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The TV Parliament!]] I therefore urge you to keep time. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14277	Ladies and gentlemen! The importance of science policy goes far beyond improving the working conditions of teachers and learners at Austrian universities. Against this background, we want to make special efforts in the coming years to improve the chances of Austria as a scientific location and as a research location, because we know that this will be an essential basis for the opportunities of Austria, for the development of Austria as an economic location in the coming years, and will therefore also make a significant contribution to the development of general prosperity in our country. Against this background, it is very important to us – the Federal Minister has already stressed it – to also contribute in the coming years to further increase the academic rate. It was therefore important for my group to insist in the negotiations on the need to enforce and ensure that free access to higher education continues in Austria. This means, on the one hand, that the tuition fees we abolished here in the House before the elections are abolished. However, it is not only about obtaining free access to universities, but also about maintaining fair, open access to universities for students. Therefore, we want to ensure greater transparency and fairness at the beginning of the study in the next few years. They probably know that at universities there is an increasing practice of performing Knock-out tests at the beginning, during which most of the students are screened out according to opaque criteria. That's not in our sense. Instead, we want to create entry-level assistance for the students by requiring the universities to offer entry-level and orientation phases to the students. We want more money for universities; we want to improve study conditions; we want to achieve the goal of making 2% of the gross domestic product available to science gradually; we want to improve the framework conditions for students; and there is a better relationship between teachers and students at universities. We want to create more places to study medicine, dentistry and psychology, and we want – this is especially important! – create more places to study at the technical universities, and in particular better equip and do the vocational courses. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The promotion of women is also an important concern and many other points to which I am no longer coming. I'm looking forward to a good cooperation in the house. Especially on educational issues there is always a very...
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14325	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to interrupt you. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Steibl for the Abg leaving the speaker's mouth. May. Kuntzl.]] Mrs Dr. Karl is the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14359	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! The ÖVP wants to put people at the heart of the future as the drivers of the future. This basic position is also reflected in the section “Science and Research” of the government programme. We see all members of the Austrian universities and colleges as the future's potential and want to support and promote them as much as possible. This government programme opens up great opportunities for Austrian university members, for example, through high quality standards, by promoting mobility, international networking and excellence. Foreign experience and international networking in research and science are important success factors that we want to make even better use of for our universities and universities in the future. This will generally benefit the individual career paths as well as the scientific and research location. To open up opportunities means also to enable new career paths for us. This is to be done through the university collective agreement. Accordingly, the government programme states that sufficient and sustainable funding is provided for the implementation of this collective agreement. The promotion of young scientists and the promotion of women throughout the course of education and training throughout the scientific field is also explicitly defined. In concrete terms, this is about the better compatibility of work and private life, but also about the development and promotion of new career models in science and research. Opportunities are also open up through the concrete measures set out in the government programme to increase the graduates' and graduates' ratio and also the success rate. For example, the active support of students in the individual choice of study decisions serves. Finally, the clear commitment to the possibility of vocational study is mentioned. These measures would be beneficial if they were to be adopted on 24 June. In September of this year, the tuition fees would not have been abolished. Then, for 2009 alone, €150 million could not be made as a mere substitute for the tuition fees lost, but as an additional funding to the universities. It is therefore cynical, Mr Green Forest, if you complain in your press release yesterday about the bad budgetary situation of the universities. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Do you dream?]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] On the one hand, you complain that, on the other hand, However, they voted in favour of abolishing the tuition fees. If it were not for the abolition of tuition fees, you would have to worry much less about the budgetary situation of universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14404	Mr Graf has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14426	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr Hahn, Minister of Justice! I will now deal briefly with the chapter on science and I would like to point out the following: The universities, universities and the entire scientific field, in particular research and industrial research, need one in Austria: Security, liability and determination. Unfortunately, this is not recognizable in the 15 pages of the government programme – I have it here, it is not anymore – that deal with these issues. Two pages are only general introduction, remaining 13 pages. There is a long time, in each paragraph, to be examined several times: to evaluate, to improve, to promote a group of experts to be used, to deepen and expand, to further develop, to promote, to continue to be supported. – Lauter “solt”. Why not “is ”? Why not schedule? Why don't data when what happens? That's not there at all! It is non-binding, undetermined and lasts for five years. I'm graying out of it. The only thing that is new – and thanks to the vice chancellor, who has best relations with the Lower Austrian head of state – is that the Danube University of Krems is to be integrated into the UG 2002 as a new university so that the total budget of the universities can be taken part in the future. Thanks to Lower Austria! I say: We do not need additional public-law universities, but we need well-functioning public-law universities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is nothing specific in it except where budget reservations have been set: in the collective contract, for example, or in the high-school offensive. Otherwise, no amount shall be fixed. By the way, Minister of Justice, Mr Hahn, the science chapter is the only chapter of all the chapters you can explore in this government programme, where there is no single number of people, so never talk about euro amounts. This is actually negligent – apart from the fact that this is not true with the €150 million contributions from the study, but we will also explain this to you, because 35 million have been replaced from a budgetary perspective by the study aid; about 30 percent of students continue to pay and foreign students continue to pay. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] So that means with a sentence: You stay general, say at the end, you hope you manage something. – Hope is already a good principle for so many goals. I can't see you've done something good so far. I hope it's gonna be better.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14493	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Widmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14516	Thank you, Madam President. High house! Allow me to deal with the chapter on energy policy of this government. This chapter is in itself a topic of the future, connected with climate policy, with sustainability policy, but shows us that this government is not able to live up to it. The government programme is satisfied with general statements: Energy has to be efficient, it has to be renewable, it has to be innovative!, but there are no concrete declarations of intent, there are no concrete objectives, for example in new biomass plants – how many will we get? – in increasing energy efficiency as a percentage, in general efficiency for energy use in Austria. There is also no information on how many fossil plants we want to save in Austria. There is no number to be found in this government programme. It reads like a textbook from the university 15 years ago. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This should also be the reason – this empty content pulls itself like a red-black thread through the government program – that there is no table of contents here. Have you seen that? There is no table of contents in this program, because it is empty! However, I can also come to current issues, to the failure of the last or present government. Let's think about the Ecostrom Act! It has been notified in Brussels. It would be necessary for the Minister of Economic Affairs to write a letter to finally let the notification go because the entrepreneurs are waiting to be able to invest in eco-electric installations. 3.8 billion would be possible by 2015. The same applies to the eco electricity regulation. ==References== The existing regulation exists on December 1, then it is out of date. There, too, entrepreneurs want security. I wonder why, at the time of the economic crisis, the ministers of the economy do not create a regulation to invest in the future. A minister of economics as an economic brake? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And finally, Temelín and EURATOM. Take the opportunity today: Support the BZÖ's applications for a international lawsuit against the Czech Republic for the implementation of the milking process, for security retrofitting, and also take the opportunity to agree with us today regarding EURATOM that we will not invest €40 million annually in the European nuclear lobby, but in our renewable energies. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, support the renewable energies and say You stop at the free drive of nuclear power in Europe and Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14610	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14670	Mr Grünewald is speaking as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14691	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! Dear colleague Karl, you know that research and science should serve the truth. – I have not found much of it in this government programme so far. I have to say that, as happened this morning, Members are able to make the difference between panda bears and sonar bears, as an educational and research goal, too little for me. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Since this is about quality, rankings, promotion of young people: Please read what is in the government programme! Every person who today joins in the adventure of science and research is de facto forced to make a vow to poverty and to celibacy! This is the real perspective! You talk of SPÖ and ÖVP of quality, but: Don't you know how quality comes about? If there are already rankings, then one thing about the underdoing of universities: too few students, too high social selection, too bad care conditions! Austria is in 17th place – and that in 18 countries! I would like to have a ranking of governments and science ministries for the teaching of universities. You, Federal Minister Hahn, are responsible for the research environment, you are responsible for whether young people go to the university and how they can be formed. If you say, Dr. Hahn, that you are a lonely caller in the “desert”, in the government, in the case of red and black, then you are either in the wrong government – or you call to be quiet. The government has focused on: Education and research with high returns for the state and for the population. However, I have never seen that one saves on priorities that one sets itself! In any case, this “logic” is not taught at Philosophical faculties according to my knowledge. On positive things, which are also included and which have been decided once – Mr Cap has given us the tip to say what you want –: I want to see what I have decided with you and other opposition parties implemented, because there are also very clear budget paths. - But you don't have such a one now. You will finance your slogans with zero! “Moderate increase” call that. In your government program, so many minstrels and zodiacs are visible, all of which mean “depending on financial coverage or alternatives”, so that a Greek oracle has more liability than the chapter Science and Research, which includes universities, in your program.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14750	The next speaker is Mr Stöger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14768	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The new Austrian Federal Government has undertaken to put the people of this country at the centre of its action. Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann made it clear in his statement that the management of the financial and economic crisis will be a central task. For the health system, economically worse times mean a reduction in the contributions of insured persons, which is a fear of lower revenue in health insurance and consequently also lower revenue in the financing of hospitals. Just as the entire Federal Government will devote itself to reducing the impact of the economic crisis, I will act as Minister of Health to maintain and increase the efficiency and financial viability of the Austrian health system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I learned that there are two key success factors in health care. Firstly, open and fair cooperation with all key partners. This cooperation does not mean that one must always agree, nor that the roles or even responsibility can be exchanged. I am deeply convinced, however, that one will continue on the basis of common objectives and that one must also challenge objectives in individual cases. Secondly, you have to be ready to look closely at health care. The complexity of this important area must be addressed; we are talking about one tenth of our economy and health services. Simple answers and simple solutions to complex questions are not available – and not even in healthcare. I become cooperative and commonplace, and only when all the partners of the system – the doctors, the nurses, the countries, the health insurance companies, but also the health ministers and all other employees – will work together constructively will it be possible to work out reforms that actually come to people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore advocate an appreciative approach to all parties on the basis of common objectives, for a commitment to patient-oriented quality. This means creating structures according to which decisions and responsibilities come together and are also perceived. Transparency, benchmarking, learning from others and competition in the form of comparability can enable decision-makers to operate efficiently, effectively, effectively and patient-orientedly. I am in favour of ensuring that we have safe health care and equal access to peak medical services. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] An important task will be to ensure the financing of the local health telephone. This federal government acknowledges this. I invite you to take the path of an appropriate and constructive health policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14843	Mrs Oberhauser is now speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14865	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I think all of us here agree: that we not only want to maintain our good health system, but also to expand it further. The government programme also has a clear commitment that the state does not give up its role in the field of health care, but continues to do so. There is also a clear commitment to solidarity funding and a clear commitment that patients should not be the sufferers of a system. This means that the path of restricting self-preservation, which began with the last federal government, will continue during this legislative period. We are all, as I mean, aware that the “best patient” is the one who won’t be at all. That is to say, the chapter on prevention and health promotion is a large part of this government programme, starting with the already existing project “Healthy School” up to the project of promoting young people in their health care. We all know that this group of young people has bad health data and that there is therefore a lot to invest in. Communication is, Federal Minister Alois Stöger has said that here too, in health care one of the most important things. I very much appreciate Alois Stöger and therefore hope that communication with all those involved in the system will preserve us from the failure of a health reform, as we last experienced, during this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14901	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14922	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! High house! Values Members of the Federal Government! Today, it has been asked very often why the ÖVP is involved in this government. – The answer: It's necessary that someone work for our country. There are so many parties that only go in opposition and play from this position from the better knowers. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] It's not going to be good, because we need people who act! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the field of health, it will be necessary to continue the work started. The failure of the health reform package was also due to a lack of communication. We need to do better in the future. We are committed to citizens in all areas. I agree with my previous speaker that the prevention of wider space must be given in the health field. I believe that we must finally start to find an answer to demographic development. There is a higher life expectancy and, of course, a clear answer is needed in the health field. We must also try – Mr Stöger, you have said very clearly that you are ready for dialogue, for discussion with the local authorities – to double-tracks which we find on a broad scale and which cost us a lot of money to eliminate in a reasonable way. If money is needed in social insurance and health insurance today, then there will also be money – and this is what this Federal Government has spoken about. But in advance, we also need to do our own work, to exercise self-responsibility and to use self-help. It's not going to be a matter of calling for the state, but of not changing anything. This declaration of government has not yet broken down the issues, and I think, Minister, we will have to get through to discuss structural issues too. It's high time for that. I don't think we're holding ourselves. should be taken out of the discussion at all times. We will have to discuss them. [[Aha-run at BZÖ.]] Wait! We can take them off calmly, but then please with all the insured. This is a very important message that I would like to transport here today!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14992	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Belakovich-Jenewein. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15013	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! After what my previous speaker has said, it is quite obvious: The ÖVP would like to reintroduce the self retention. She wants to strengthen her. She announced that before the election. She'd like to do it right now. All of this leaves this government programme open. There is nothing specific inside, there are only statements of intent. It is a “peaceyard ” of the headings to be found there. As I said, there's nothing specific inside at all. There is a single specific measure – and you, Mr Federal Minister, have now been so to speak, in your statement – which is now also planned for an attack on the pharmacy by locking up the free pharmacies by providing the medicines directly to the patients from the social security institutions. As you imagine, you didn't write. How should the medications, if at some point the post no longer exists, come to the patients? That means the end of free pharmacies. That's the next attack! After you have tried in early summer to ruin the established doctors economically, try with the pharmacists now. This creates another problem in the health system. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next point: In your “peaceyard” of the keywords I have already recognized how you deal with e-card abuse. I recognize you're saying there's him now. But if the government program says that the identification of the patients must be made by the partners because you have been taken back from the main association, so to speak, and because the proposal with the photo on the e-card is now from the table, then it is still a bit difficult to believe you, if you say there is an application check, conspicuousness must be examined by the health insurance provider and measures to be taken against misuse. Now only! That doesn't require a government programme. I think it is applicable law in Austria that insurance abuse is prosecuted.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15052	Mr. Dr. Spadiut is the next speaker. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15074	Madam President. High house! The new government programme covers only seven pages of health and cash reform. In this it is impossible to see which direction the system should take in the future. It is about reforms that have not been defined, about debunking the health insurance fund with a financial injection of € 450 million, but otherwise no reform plans can be identified as to how to eliminate the existing bottlenecks of the health insurance companies. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Minister of Health held a panel discussion on 13 March. November this year in the House of Industry – at that time still in the function of the Obmann of the Upper Austrian District Hospital – explains that he spends only as much money as he consumes. This is a very natural way of doing things. Only: What does that mean for the health insurance companies? – For health insurance companies, this means increasing contributions and limiting the supply of highly effective, best effective and high-quality medicines. – That’s not how it is with us, Minister of Health! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In Upper Austria, doctors are guaranteed a certain income over years if you prescribe cheaper and fewer medications. This is a very questionable process! The deficit cannot be blamed for the amount of medication and medical care. It is only the inflated administrative system of health insurance companies that has to be made responsible for the deficit! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We therefore call for the following: Ensuring the health register, ensuring the provision of medicines for the contributors, pooling of health insurance companies – a checkout per state –, uniform service catalogues, a central point of settlement, reducing bureaucracy and thereby saving billions of euros. We are saying about health reform, we are saying about the rehabilitation of health insurance companies – but no to an additional burden on taxpayers and contributors!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15143	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15164	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister Stöger, you are either a very courageous or a very mellow person if you take up this job in view of the history of the health ministers in the Second Republic, but also in view of your own attitude to the planned reforms. [[Call the SPÖ: Cute!]] Don't worry about it! If you agree with us, Federal Minister, that it is necessary to implement reforms in the interests of higher health, in the interests of better care for sick people, then we are with you. I'll tell you: This is precisely the point that is misdefined among the objectives set out in the chapter on health, because that is what it says: The focus of the Federal Government's health policy is on the needs of patients. Wrong! The focus should be on the highest possible health and, of course, also the highest and optimal care for sick people. And then there must be what you do in order to achieve as high a human health as possible. You'd have to set goals! For example, in the diseases of the musculoskeletal device: Reduction, we say once, by 10 percent. Specific objectives should be defined, in which we and the people can measure health policy in this country. It's also in your paper: The development towards a two-class medicine is to be prevented. – Unrealistic, because we already have them! We already have a multi-class medicine. But we expect from you, Federal Minister, that medical care for all people – whether they are in the city or in the countryside, whether they have a lot of money or little money – means the same quality and health as possible. If you do, we'll be with you!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15201	Next speaker: Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15222	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture, forestry, climate protection and environmental protection are central priorities of this government programme. This is also justified because these are important concerns that ultimately create the foundations of our society. I am therefore glad and pleased that I am taking over with the Ministry of Life a strong place that has shaped Josef Pröll in the past, but that also men like Willi Molterer and his predecessors have made strong. My aim is to consistently develop this policy that has begun. My clear objectives and those of the Federal Government are: to ensure the future of domestic farmers; to open up opportunities in rural areas, but also to have satisfied consumers who recognise the value of high-quality domestic food production; ensuring and improving the quality of life in the country, not only in rural areas, but also in urban areas; To safeguard our natural livelihoods, soil, air and water, in the sense of our society; ultimately, protection against natural hazards – the floods have shown it – which is a priority topic in my department and a challenge. Like no other country, Austria has a farm-structured ecological agriculture. In addition, around 66 percent of farms operate in the mining area or in the less favoured area. This means structural disadvantages. These companies cannot exist in international competition if we supply them to the free market and if we do not support them. We must therefore face the challenges. The health check, the health check, is under negotiation in the European Union. It is about the fact that this Federal Government clearly acknowledges Austria's milk location, that we continue to support in particular those farms that produce milk in the mining area, in the less-favoured area, even if the milk quota expires. This can only be done through a system of grant and support. This is especially necessary in structurally weak areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is also about the competitiveness of the Austrian farms as a whole, and therefore we also need the support of farms in favour, because we meet on world markets, and if we do not support the competitiveness of our farms, which provide secure food supplies in Austria, then we come to terms with it. Keywords: Increased oil tax reimbursement, agricultural diesel and other things more. The safeguarding of competitiveness is therefore a central concern for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also important that we are already discussing the post-2013 period, namely the discussion on the further development of the common agricultural policy of the European Union. We shall start this discussion now, says the The Federal Government is clearly familiar with the first pillar of agricultural policy with the system of direct payments as a basic guarantee for farms and a further development of the second pillar of agricultural policy, namely rural development, which we place very much on, where there are benefits for farmers' eco-services, but also investment promotion and competitiveness of farms. The Federal Government supports the concern of financing rural development programmes. I could list many other things, such as the clear commitment to GMO-free cultivation. Austria was a model for this and will continue to be it. Keywords: organic agriculture, bioenergy and environmental protection. In conclusion: It is currently starting the big UN Climate Change Conference in Poland. We will do everything we can to achieve the ambitious climate change targets there. But this is only possible if there is a national effort, because the Minister for the Environment cannot do it alone. That's what we all have to do: Federal Republic of Germany, countries and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15293	Now comes Mr Mag. Gaßner to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15314	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Minister for Agriculture, I have listened carefully to your remarks and I would like to stress in principle all that you have said here. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] The area in which we work is a most exciting one. It ranges from producing healthy food to protecting against natural hazards. They have listed a wide range, and I am convinced that this government will succeed in putting the measures in line with the government programme. I am also convinced that we will succeed in supporting this government here as a coalition partner. Ladies and gentlemen! A very important point in the field of agriculture is the promotion of rural areas and rural development. You, Mr. Minister, have ended up with a sentence that said: Federal Government, countries and municipalities must work together! – Minister for Agriculture, the municipalities are a strong partner for rural agriculture. I hope that this will also happen in the business package, because every euro that is invested in us goes into SMEs and jobs immediately. In this context, I should like to say one more thing: We have one essential point to clarify, and that is the problem of the dairy sector in Austria. I think that we should go into a coalition between farmers, farmers and consumers and finally end this unpleasant discussion. We in the Mühlviertel are told: Let's go!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15357	Mr Ing. Schultes is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15379	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! First of all, I would like to thank our new Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Economics. I would like to say a warm welcome. We know you're gonna do your job well, because we've seen it in the Burgenland in your work. We look forward to your taking responsibility for the farmers in Lower Austria, for the farmers in Upper Austria, in Tyrol and in all other federal states. We know that you will also act on our concerns at European level. Dear friends! With the new Minister of Agriculture, we have a man who sees the future and deserves us to support him, because his task, which will be a very difficult one, is to make sure that farmers can live with the risk at a time of very changing prices. We need new instruments, because the challenge is enormous for farmers. It can't be that on the one hand farmers are held responsible for price developments and that on the other hand, when prices collapse, everyone looks away. The new Minister for Agriculture and the Environment will also need help and support when it comes to achieving climate change objectives across Austria. There are many tasks ahead of us, very serious tasks ahead of us. We will be there in the European concert and we will have to take advantage of everything there is: the reduction, the increase in efficiency and also all the measures necessary to develop renewable energy from biomass, hydropower, wind and photovoltaics from the forest and equally from the field. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, we trust in you and wish you all the best! We can do something – we can do more – and with you much more!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15418	Mr Jannach has now come to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15439	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I have also looked at the government programme on agriculture, and there is a need for social, fair and fair agricultural income. – No, that’s what we are for! The Federal Government wants to work for the milking site in Austria. – We are also opposition for this! But especially in the milk sector, the last German government has totally capitulated in front of the Brussels agricultural lobby. The abolition of the milk quota scheme was the biggest mistake that agricultural policy has ever made in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Everyone knows that too much milk is on the market and that the price falls. And everyone also knows that small-structured Austrian agriculture can never keep up with large-scale farms in Europe. We would have expected the government programme to be inside: The Austrian Minister for Agriculture will not approve any withdrawal of the milk quota and, if necessary, also veto in order to protect local agriculture! – With any dairy cows and other premiums, you cannot stop the price decline. And you're leading the farmers into dependence. You know that! [[Abg. Ing. Schools: I don't know!]] On the topic “Bürocratism” you write: Simplifications in the cross-compliance rules should be sought. – We would have expected the government programme to be inside: We will finally redefine this impenetrable and unfair application and promotion jungle, in which only specialists still know each other! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We would have expected the government programme to be inside: We will finally reform this unjust support system in agriculture, from which only large farms benefit! 20 percent of businesses still receive 80 percent of the funding. The large companies stop their pockets full. We demand that the new Federal Government not only adopt itself with the words of agriculture, but also in Brussels, where the agricultural policy is made, as it belongs to a net payer, namely self-confidence, and that it does not kneel in the face of a slight anti-wind. We have the interests of Austrian farmers to represent!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15488	Mr Linder is the next speaker. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15509	Estimated President! Ladies and gentlemen! Tourism accounts for 16.5 percent of gross domestic product, and 267 pages includes the government programme. If this is done in a relationship with one another, the government programme would have to contain at least 42 pages on the subject of “Tourism”. But there are only two and a half pages. It is certainly true that one cannot put everything under the gross domestic product, but it is true that there are 74 000 establishments dealing with tourism that each fifth full-time job is generated by the tourism and leisure industry. But all this is worth our government only two and a half empty pages – pages that deal with evaluating, checking and optimizing. Here, Federal Chancellor, it is difficult for us to measure you only by your will. The only really fixed one is the increase in the TOP tourism promotion, and there's a little star in it. That means it was not worth the government to provide money for it. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Graf.]] We did not expect the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ to put their heart blood in tourism, but, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we are sorry that you are no longer worth tourism. We demand an increase in funding for the Austrian advertising by at least € 10 million! We also demand that you really stand behind tourism with joy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15549	Mrs Mag. Brunner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15570	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, in the hall and at home! What led me to this House is missing and missing environmental policy. It is built across Austria's motorways and oversized waste combustion plants. We also have more and more plastic bottles in the shelves, more fine dust recovery areas and will not achieve the Kyoto targets. Austria's environmental model country is no longer available, and it is already interesting to look at what you are planning in the environmental field in the next few years. The very first thing is that there is not even one's own Ministry of the Environment. Environmental protection as a ‘beiwagerl’ of agriculture clearly shows the importance of the environmental sector in this Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When it comes to water, air quality and noise protection, you can also look for compliance with minimum standards and not what is actually necessary for the protection of people. When it comes to protecting people, it is also very critical to observe what you are planning in the field of procedures. They want to streamline them. The streamlining of procedures – which I would like to maintain here – must not go at the expense of citizens, of neighbors and at the expense of the many citizens' initiatives throughout Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A major challenge, but also a great opportunity, is climate protection. They also recognise the need for a climate change and energy strategy. However, you have not planned any measures, unlike the last German government, even no more targets, for example the expansion of renewable energy sources in Austria. Mr Berlakovich, if I may address you personally from Burgenländer to Burgenländer: They know what opportunities there are in the field of energy independence and job creation. We have the example of this in Burgenland, in Güssing. I expect you to make such developments possible for other communities. I would like to conclude with the hope that you will not only be agriculture ministers, but also environmental ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15627	Now comes Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Darabos, because of the fact that we are already outside the time of television transmission, has no more time limit. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15659	Madam President. High house! I would rather have been in the time of television broadcasting, because the area of national defence is an important one from my point of view. The agendas of the sport are also very important, even if my competence only needs to be defined in the Federal Ministry Act. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Today we have heard the term "mute" or "mutelessness" several times in the speeches, especially by the representatives of the opposition, but also by the government parties. I believe that the area of national defence which I was allowed to negotiate with Mrs Fekter falls within the category of ‘must’. It is courageous that Austria continues to confess itself – and this is the central security element – to an active neutrality policy. The restoration of Austria is footing on this neutrality. And it is important and courageous to be in the framework of 27 EU countries, of which 22 belong to NATO and only four are neutral, not just to approach this concept, but to write it centrally into a government programme. I am proud that our neutrality is so prominently anchored in the government programme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Austrian Federal Army – and this too is courageous – will be to establish and anchor as a peace army in the coming years. We have anchored the protection of the population in the case of disasters. We have committed solidarity in international peacekeeping missions. We have also anchored humanitarian protection abroad. That too is courageous. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Without money!]] The motto that the German army has had for years, but which was a bit neglected under black and blue at the time – because you look at me like this, Mr. Darmann – that is, the motto “protection and help” now has more meaning than ever before. As an Austrian army, we will ensure that the consequences of natural disasters, which will unfortunately also occur again in Austria, are eased and driven off by the Austrian Federal Army. [[Abg. May. Darmann: We need money!]] We will carry out assistance efforts in the country, for example in my home country Burgenland, the field of assistance on the Burgenland, Lower Austrian, Hungarian, Slovak and Czech border, even though this was criticized by the FPÖ. I firmly believe that the population, I would say, is to 99 percent behind this commitment. We will ensure that this commitment will be maintained for so long as the population needs it and as long as it meets the security requirements of Austria. We'll evaluate this next year. We also have the financial resources, as you can take poison on them, I do not want to say, but I am sure that we will also make these financial resources available. [[Abg. Weinzinger: But we have to use our boys to defend the country! They must also be trained!]] For the keyword Foreign operations: In recent decades, as the Republic of Austria, we have developed an excellent reputation by the Austrian Federal Army, through the sending of international peace missions. I would just like to pick out a few of these: the Golan mission, the Kosovo mission, the Bosnia-Herzegovina mission, and also the mission – much criticised by the opposition – in Chad. In the next few years, we will ensure that these missions are continued, that these missions will also strengthen the international reputation of Austria. Of course, we are under observation. We are now members of the Security Council and are expected from Austria the commitment we have made in recent years. This commitment is correct and important. With about 1,400 soldiers in 14 UN mandated missions, we are internationally outstanding. This is also known by those responsible in the field of the UN. We will also have to develop European security and defence policy together with you in the House. Yes, we are neutral, but it is also about showing a clear flag when it comes to crisis interventions in Europe. I do not like the name Battle Groups particularly well, but we have committed ourselves in the government program to sending these Battle Groups with Austrian soldiers in 2011 and 2012. We stand for general military service and for the mixing system with the militia. We're on the six months of ground defense. We stand for an increase in the proportion of women in the Austrian federal army. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ten years of women in the Austrian Federal Army, that was celebrated this year. For the first time, I am thinking of including women in the General Staff Course. This is the first time in the history of the Austrian federal army. It is only a matter of time until women are in the General Staff, even if you may not like it, Mr Weinzinger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] I'm going to the procurement sector. We have clearly stated in the government programme that, of course, we want to ensure that there is Austrian value added within the framework of the legal possibilities. We have also ensured – thanking the government partner – that 100 percent of the property revenues will remain in the Federal Ministry of State Defense. I think that is a round, courageous programme in this very sensitive security policy area. Now to the sport: In the last few days, some statements have come up with resistance. However, I am firmly convinced that Austrian sport is a major factor with a total of 7.5 percent for value added in Austria. There are health, social, economic, tourism and education obligations. We will have to define clearly the ratio of top-level sports/broadsports. I am a confessor of top sports, because I believe that the top sport works on wide-ranging sports and vice versa. We will be guided by the basics of the concept of “future sport”, which was developed during the last government period. It is an excellent concept for the future of Austrian sport. We will, of course, intensify all efforts in the field of the sport of disabled persons. We will do our utmost to modernise the sports venues, and we will also accept the very delicate issue of doping. I am not going to get hurt here by threats that come mainly from this area. Obviously there is a lot of work to be done here. Austria has taken a first step with the anti-doping law, but it has not done everything yet, as we have seen in the last words. [[Call to the BZÖ: How about the prison sentence now?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We do not criminalize athletes!]] Mr. Westenthaler, as the board of directors of a certain organization, you have already proved that you are not particularly competent in the field of sports. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Wittmann has...!]] I would therefore ask you to stop these words! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are a rather superior pimp!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: And pretty next to it!]] I will work for the fact that doping in Austria is not regarded as a cavalier crime, but as a crime, as the great majority of the Austrian population also sees it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... we will see you again, Mr. Colleague!]] - We'll see you again, yes! I'm looking forward to the fights. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Imprisonment for doping! Where are we?]] Overall, I believe that we have a lot to do in this area, it is a complete programme. I'm looking forward to the challenges. I am also looking forward to the discussions with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15878	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. – Mr Prehauser is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15899	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Federal Minister, I thank you for the clear statements. However, I would also like to thank our coalition partner for the negotiations that have ended in a very constructive climate. That's what I got to my main address. I think national defense is suitable for a lot, but not for personal political hack. It is also called on the opposition to bring in constructive and, together with the government, to be concerned about the defence of the country and to make the protection of the land. Those thoughts that we bring together here can only be for the benefit of our common security. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Darabos, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has already carried it out: This Federal Government clearly acknowledges the six-month military service, it confesses itself to the militia, it also confesses itself to the German army reform, which is in progress. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we know that in times like these, there is also a need for financial resources that are not currently so abundantly available. We need them for very, very important other things right now. However, we have the prospect that the federal army will also be given special funding packages. It's about infrastructure improvements. Money doesn't have a mesh. We have to pick up a lot in the infrastructure in the buildings to make the accommodations soldier-friendly. But we also want to carry out our mission to carry out the tasks outside Austria. Austria has not only acquired Meriten since 1960, when it provided peacekeeping in Congo. I am thinking only of the conflicts about a year and a half ago when it was about sending troops to Chad. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the “hocks” have flown very deep. Today, where we actually know that the operation was justified and necessary, we are quietly proud and at the moment do not talk about it. We have a silent admission to pay tribute to the Minister of State. Mr. Federal Minister, thank you for staying hard in the interests of humanitarian efforts to help people. Parliament has needed a little bit to understand you, but today it is behind you. I wish the Federal Government, but also the defence resort all the possible good for the work to come. I also welcome the fact that sport has been added to the state defense – the colleague Haubner laughs a bit – because many soldiers are the parade athletes of Austria, who are present servants or federal army members. I also believe that networking can become even closer and possibly even greater sporting successes can be achieved. Mr Federal Minister, I should like to express my support for my group.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15947	Next, Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15984	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. State Secretary! First of all, I would like to say something very briefly about the defence of the state. I believe that it is very important, especially in economically difficult times, that we see that, especially in the procurement sector, as mentioned, value creation will be maintained in Austria and that Austrian businesses are preferred with the orders. I'm coming to the sports sector now. In principle, I would like to say that: In sport, it has been Usus that a broad consensus between all parties was maintained especially in the delicate topics of sport. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So it is! He doesn't know that back there!]] It was also the success secret of Austrian sport that we worked together in sports across party borders on solutions for athletes. If we leave a basic consensus today, namely that athletes are not criminalised, then I have to say, as sports representatives, I cannot agree here. [[Congratulations of Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Petzner.]] Because I believe in principle that we have a clear definition: Those who organize doping are subject to criminal prosecution, but those who perform sports, but who can no longer perform, are already punished in sports for being blocked by their association for the pursuit of the activity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr Sport Minister, I think I have to say this deliberately: We need to be careful! They are representatives of sportsmen! And as President of the Sports Union Austria, I also feel obliged to my athletes and my trainers and volunteers in the associations. We must be careful not to bring a rope between the athletes and their supervisors. I think it is important that we continue to devote ourselves to the issue of doping very delicately and completely, very sensitively, just as we have done in the past, and just as we have now wanted to do, that we specifically work out the new guidelines and standards of the WADA in a committee, that we devote ourselves to this issue. However, we should remain with our basic consensus, which we have always enjoyed in sport, namely that athletes can build on a common basis in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16043	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16064	Mr President. Dear Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! First of all, I think it is reasonable that sport should be rescheduled to the military, because fact is scarcely publicly perceived that without the military's performance a large part of the top sports in Austria would not be feasible. That's a fact. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next point: The majority of the government programme is to be signed, with a large exception from my group's point of view: the confession – I find it somewhat too euphoric in this context – to maintain the service reduced to six months. Mr. Federal Minister, you have spoken of courage. That would have been courageous to say: That was a mistake, we should go back to eight months of military service! Because exactly the two months are missing for the feeding rate of the militia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, you confess to the militia, that is good and right, but we still do not know how we can put up the militia as a force that is sustainablely perceptible. A statement that we owe to the famous Weiland Field Marshal Montecuccoli, which has been quoted thousands of times, is: What do I need for the army? Money, money and money again. – And that is completely missing. In this context, if we and you are committed to fulfilling the orders or ideas of the results of the Federal Reform Commission, I also recall the words of the recently deceased Dr. Zilk, Chairman of this body, who accompanied the handing over of the final document with the words: For implementation, a share of the gross domestic product of 1 percent is required. – And We're far away from that. The army is and remains systematically under-supplyed, under-supplyed, and this also leads to a broad frustration of the entire staff. In the opposition you will at any time have the support to improve this condition, but your main task in the future structural circumstances and in the tasks that You've noticed, it's to fight every big money. It cannot go on that way that we will land around three quarters of GDP, describe major tasks which are all to be signed, but which will not be given the necessary support from budgetary policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to all other important things, of course, everything that we have heard today is good and worth signing, because in principle it is only possible to fix headline texts. It is always good to put in person, and I put good in the intentions of the government. That's all right and all right, but the army can't do well to continue without decisive improvement of budgetary resources. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16130	Next speaker is Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16152	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The old government programme included 168 pages, the new 267 and I believe in many areas with even more superficial lip confessions, especially in the area of women's policy. The fact that the Ministry of Women is not really of great importance is also reflected in the budget of €4 million for this purpose. This budget is thus the final light of the funding pots, but perhaps the former Minister of Women Bures – there is now none of the two ladies present – is now the Minister of Infrastructure and manages a budget of €330 million, the new Minister of Women a little bit from the money, who knows! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In fact, the Ministry of Women is a fig leaf without real implementation skills. The Ministry of Women has no more competences today than at the time of Johanna Dohnal. [[Abg. May. Worm: But has caused much, the Johanna Dohnal!]] In this context, I think it would also be useful to discuss – what we have often done about it – the installation of a Ministry of Equality, where men's agendas are included. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the last government agreement, a minimum wage of €1,000 was still required and implemented, this time there is a demand for a minimum guarantee. – We demand a minimum wage of 1 300 € gross, which is 1 000 € net. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now, within two years, there will be the third women's minister. All right, let's see, maybe she'll move a little further. Her predecessor – and now I also come to speak to Mrs. Silhavy – has still advertised in the election campaign – I quote: Equal treatment also in everyday life – done, cut off. In my opinion, instead of the Hakerl, there would have been a mistake in the listing, especially since the EU Commission recently recommended Austria for the second time on the non-implementation of the equal treatment directive on men and women, because it still presents Austria with shortcomings in terms of termination and maternity protection. If there is no change here, the European Court of Justice is threatened. But these are not the only shortcomings to be explained. The far-reaching income shear between women and men, for example, is still unfinished. While the BZÖ currently has the lowest proportion of women among the MEPs among the parliamentary parties, we have very many women elected, very many women, especially women who are not working. [[Abg. May. Worm: Oh!]] We have chosen more women than the so-called quota parties, and that speaks for us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is in favour of our policy being good and right, that we should start exactly where help is needed. We continue this path consistently – for women and for mothers in this country; the mothers have not really been taken into account in the Government Convention. We continue our way when it comes to the introduction of baby money, free kindergartens, school start money, mother's content, mother's board and so on. We will continue to pursue this path, we are a constructive partner, and I ask you to take up our proposals as well. I conclude my speech, but with regard to the taking up of the proposals, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16244	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore being negotiated. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16313	Next word: Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16334	Dear Bureau! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear visitors, some are still there! Mr. Minister of Defence! Today, the defence sector has clearly come to know two measures which are probably courageous but which, from a green point of view, are very unnecessarily and very unwise. First: Expanding military interventions to the active attack and high-tech flash wars by consenting to the entire Petersberg tasks. Just to remember: The Petersberg tasks have shown in consensus that the lower and middle levels are to be achieved, namely the health services and peacekeeping, but in no way the top level with active attacks. [[Abg. May. But stand in there!]] Secondly, a necessary upgrade in this respect. – Upgrade, upgrade, upgrade! The acquisition of the equipment decided in consensus has nothing to do with the upgrade that has now become known here. All of this happens in the name of peace, in the name of security and in the name of neutrality. With the word “peace bet” we are sold a bag in which a cat, no, does not even sit a cat, a tiger carrying the mascherl “pax, pacis, peace”. I congratulate all of us now on the fact that this tiger is released. The use of peace abroad cannot mean that militarism is being pushed forward, but foreign peace means support for civil peace services and support for civil society on the ground. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Domestic peace operations, which cannot mean that it is one of the police tasks to continue to take over border protection, but peace service in the country means securing civil service, securing civil services, protecting the social state or ensuring the social state, including civil service replacement services, and a clear commitment to neutrality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16375	From the government bank, Federal Minister Dr. Hahn now speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16396	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You will understand that I do not wish to prejudicate the future Minister of Justice Dr Claudia Bandion-Ortner in the truest sense of the word. From this point of view, I also send her the best wishes for improvement and a successful letter of judgment. I would like to take the opportunity, as a representative of the Federal Government, to express clearly and firmly – and I think we all have this self-understanding – that we must all have a common interest in a high-quality and independent justice and that it must be our common concern to continue to support, strengthen and ensure impartiality and independence as the pillar of a democratic and pluralist rule of law. Therefore, I think it was also a wise decision of Sepp Pröll to invite the independent judge Claudia Bandion-Ortner to sit with us on the government bank. I believe that independent jurisprudence needs the trust of citizens, and therefore we will have to place particular emphasis on maintaining and improving the quality of the task of fulfilling justice, closeness to citizens and, in particular, access to justice during the next legislative period. I would, however, like to say this quite openly, if I have already had the opportunity to perform two functions at the same time for a few weeks, but I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to give science, as it were, a better role in the pursuit of high-quality and rapid court proceedings. I hope that I will have the opportunity to find a very reasonable and practicable solution in cooperation with the two departments, in particular with the staff of the judicial unit, so that in the future we will also be able to find a high-quality scientific accompaniment and assurance, especially in the field of judicial medicine. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, it must be borne in mind again and again and again that security to live is a need for every individual person, and I think that the judicial programme agreed between the coalition partners gives quite concrete answers. In particular, I should like to refer to the second anti-violence law, which was adopted in September 2008, which was agreed so far between my predecessor Maria Berger and the Minister of the Interior, that I hope that it can be sent to Parliament soon and finally finalized, because it is directed in particular against violence against children and serves to improve the protection of victims. In this context, I should also like to point out that we want to maintain, in particular with regard to the protection of victims, that institutions such as the Restart Association have an important role in this context and will also find our support in the future. I think – and this will certainly be said in the course of the debate today – that the judicial body and the whole judicial area have taken a wide range of measures that go far into the future. I believe that there is also constructive cooperation in this area, as in the past, in the area of justice, and I would like to thank from this point of view the staff there for the friendly reception of my person, if only for a few weeks. I can imagine that it was a small cultural shock to have for the first time in the history of the judicial resort a non-jurist as head of the department; but perhaps this is also an exciting enriching of the history of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16457	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16481	Mr. Minister! I think it is not so amazing that you, as a minister of science, are taking over the area of justice for some time, because justice depends on its social development. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is therefore also important that we discuss intensively and much with each other and that we really try to achieve the greatest possible common effort. The judicial programme covers a very wide range of aspects from social policy to economic law. If, as we do today, we are talking about the economic crisis, it is also important to mention that we should have started and continue the discussion on antitrust law, on the improvement of the mechanisms, especially where price regulation is concerned. You, Mr Minister, have said that the functionality of justice – and this, of course, is a confession that we all underline – is of high value. Of course, functionality also depends on the quality, but ultimately also the quantity of judges available. The same applies to the Federal Competition Authority. We agreed that the Federal Competition Authority, in the fight against price abuse, against price drivers – a third of the inflation in Austria is domesticated, is due to the fact that there are abuses of dominant positions in the market – to be adequately equipped. We have indicated this in the government programme, but I think it is very important to really implement it, perhaps also to seek a cross-sectoral budget approach so that we can implement these 15 positions which we have carried out internally. Family law will certainly need further discussion. With regard to gender partnerships, there is a principle that we need to further discuss. Consumer law – an improvement in the information and ineffectiveness of the contracts that arise through advertising calls, are only a few aspects. Rental law: For the definition of maintenance and maintenance obligations, there is a different jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. It is therefore very important that we move forward. In the process of reforming procedural rights, especially during the main proceedings in criminal law, it will be very important to carry out procedural reductions where there is widespread confessions and therefore an excessive length of proceedings is not necessary. I believe that we will jointly develop a reasonable judicial policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16536	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16558	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The judicial chapter – which has already been mentioned several times today – is quite one that is very extensive. At the first moment, the main focus is on jurisdiction. Of course, it is important to maintain and support independent case law, including the legal bases and the laws necessary to do so. This is also the human role of the judicial unit. In addition, the judicial body in the area of legislation has a great deal to do with – from the entire civil law to criminal law, with various special criminal law laws, to the organisation of many legal subjects that we have to deal with on a daily basis in economic and real life, and which are simply part of our modern society, and, ultimately, of course, also with the legal professions in the narrower sense, whose organisational rules and rules necessary to exercise them are also relevant in the field of justice. So, of course, the negotiations on the subject of justice have been comprehensive. There are at least 21 pages in this government agreement that are devoted to the issue of justice in this comprehensive sense. Since today criticism has sometimes come about, how detailed or how general a government agreement should be: I can only recommend the reading of the Justice Chapter of the Government Convention because, as I believe, the right mix is shown there. Of course, there should be detailed provisions on individual topics, which have already been pre-worked in the past. Examples of this have already been listed by my previous speaker, I would just like to mention as special priorities which have already been very far-reaching in the negotiations and which have been very detailed in the Government Convention: the issue of violence, the issue of family law – in particular the maintenance advance to be extended – up to concrete rules, for example, against the phenomenon of Hassprediger. But, of course, there must also be many general parts in this government agreement, especially in the field of justice, because an ABGB reform or also the reform of the main proceedings in criminal proceedings are not suitable for the proper negotiation of this in government negotiations up to the last i-popotamus, but there is also the need for the involvement of practice, the experts and so on. I am looking forward to the exciting work in the next months and years, first of all in cooperation with the new Minister of Justice Johannes Hahn – I think he can also bring a lot with him from the point of view of science; this combination is quite exciting – and then in a few weeks also in cooperation with the new and designed Minister of Justice Bandion-Ortner. However, I am also looking forward to working together in the Committee on Justice with you all. I believe that we are doing a very practical job there, and I hope that this will be so in the next few years – in the interests of our country and in the interests of a functioning judicial system. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16606	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16627	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister of Science! I would have liked to see the draft independent Minister of Justice representing the government programme, because it has been prepared by the government parties anyway. Where the place remains for the independent Minister of Justice, I would have liked to see it, as I said. Perhaps this is because, very generally formulated, one remains unintelligible, as has already been suggested several times today. I also point out that the speakers of the government parties have at the beginning repeatedly called for concrete proposals and ideas to be made. – Yes, if you are missing – we will deliver them in the next weeks, months and years; today, in 3 minutes, there is no time for this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Faul:... that you can't do it without you!]] It is, of course, sad that the Minister of Justice is ill. But it is nowhere a disadvantage, where there is no advantage. After all, it is now able to write the BAWAG judgment in peace, and the judicial system saves itself a complete rewind of the procedure. That's very pleasing. All in all, this government builds on a fall of the last government, namely that of lifting the social partners into the constitutional rank. Thus, the shadow government has still been put into the constitution – a shadow government in which decision-making is completely opaque, which does not have democratic structures in the real sense, but which then influence the government directly through detours and now. It seems to me that this is a kind of “Trutzburg” to which you move back when everything else is lost. So if you realize that you lose massive voices, then you have to go back to where you can still secure the majority, where you can still have the power – and that is now the social partners – and then try to rule over the detour. This will not succeed in the long run, because the elections will ultimately decide, and then sometime the social partners will lose their importance there too. However, this government programme would ask for the rejection of social utopian theories. We see this on the one hand in this exuberant gender mainstreaming. [[Abg. May. Worm: Oh, oh!]] This goes into the field of sport – promoting gender-political measures in sport – or, of course, it also affects the same sex partnerships, perhaps in the last episode sometime with adoption rights. Children as experimental rabbits, this is very irresponsible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be much more useful to do, for example, in the area of separation victims – because there children are indeed the victims. This concerns a lot of people in Austria. We have specifically called for measures to be taken to reduce the procedure in the case of disputes of visitation and care. There must be a decision within six months, and it cannot be argued that perhaps experts do not deliver their opinions in good time. There is an actual need for action, that is actual social reality and has nothing to do with these social summits. At any rate, we are pleased to note the following: This proportional social partner coalition has no constitutional majority. We will therefore be able to correct the mistakes that are now being made in the legislative field in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16689	The next speaker is Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16711	Mr President. Members or at least the rest of the future Federal Government, who still fulfil their duties in Parliament at this time! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... already missing on the first day!]] High house! It is already strange that a government will explain itself to Parliament or clarify itself or whatever it is, and now it is 5.45 p.m., and the new members of the Federal Government, who are full of pride and sense of responsibility in this House, are tumbling and tormenting at the buffet of the cafeteria, instead of putting themselves here of democracy and parliament. This is the first ugliness that this federal government allows itself! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But obviously Alfred Gusenbauer's prophetic words do not apply to Parliament but to the future Federal Government, for they are not used to working after 4 p.m. God protect Austria, in this work morale! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have been having a discussion about this federal government since 9 a.m. today, and it is like a red thread through all the speeches, but no one has yet explained this to me: What do we actually have on 28 October? Selected September? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] – A whole series of representatives of social democracy and the ÖVP are struggling with bad conscience here on the pult to explain to people how this disaster actually came about, but no one could explain to me to this day: What have we chosen if, although Molterer and Gusenbauer are not sitting on the government bank, there are still stocks of a large coalition as in the 1990s? We have trade unionists in the government, we have economic chamberers in the government, we have let up the dust of the nineties. On the occasion you have to say: There were the Vranitzkys of the nineties, the government of a Mr. Klima and the government of a Mr. Gusenbauer, an exodus of sympathy, humanity and use, compared with this government, which is still gathered here on the government bank in residual stocks. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Come on!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is not only my question, it is not only a question of many Members of this House – good morning, Minister of Social Affairs, I hope that the food you took 10 minutes ago has tasted good – but many people in our country are wondering about it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] How can it be that 20 months of conflict, chaos and stagnation with yesterday or today find a continuation? I'm just saying, ==References== On September, the people of our country called the electorate: Free us from this government! Free us from this state of politics! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What's going on now? – members of the government who obviously defined their party function only because of the fact that they are quickly pushing in government offices! This is not a confidence-building measure for the future, even in difficult times. We have been talking about difficult times so often today. – Yes, the people in our country, the citizens, are worried, they have nude livelihoods! We read the newspaper every day, and we read letter sequences: EPCOS, MAGNA, Thyssen, ATB, AT & S. Comrade Androsch has just set up a farm like a hedge and is expanding to India instead of keeping jobs here in Austria. People in this country are worried, and they expect a federal government to be responsible and to work in this development, which we must experience in Austria, to protect themselves from it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Behind these letters – MAGNA, Thyssen, AT & S – are not only companies, but in the future there are jobs... [[Call the SPÖ:BZÖ!]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They laugh about it too!]] That may be funny for you: unemployed people. In case of your salary, you must: You don't think about unemployment. We're thinking about unemployed people! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I also say to you: There are people who are unemployed in the future and who are sent from the employment service of Mr. Hundstorfer to the next trick course of the AMS. This is not what can be understood by human rights! Human rights is a work, an employment; Human rights is to be found in employment. This is not guaranteed by the Federal Government. If I have read through the programme correctly – these words, these headings – there is no specific investment programme provided by the Federal Government for the preservation of small and medium-sized enterprises. No project, no infrastructure project! They have produced headlines in this government program and, for example, incorporated the word “Vienna” 17 times in the headlines. headlines about Vienna, which in Vienna – the walkway is cleared, or whatever – does not all happen. The word “Steiermark” does not even occur at any time, Graz, Auto-Cluster, Employees, Economy. The word “carinthia ” or“ klagenfurt ” does not even occur. The federal states that need infrastructure projects that need investment just in this situation do not even occur. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What happens in your government program? – There is an asylum-first reception centre in South! We should swallow the “screw”; We're supposed to lose jobs, but we're going to get an asylum center. And there's a thrusting center of Leoben. We won't let that happen! Mr Petzner has already said it: It cannot be that the federal states in the south are starved of economic and labour market policy. If you already want to have an asylum center south, put it on the south of Mrs. Fekter's house in Attnang-Puchheim! Then it's also an asylum center south, right on the doorstep. There you can have it, but neither in Styria nor in Carinthia! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need deeds instead of words! We need a flat tax, we need a medium-sized fund. Klubobmann Bucher actually said it: We need initiatives for small and medium-sized enterprises. But we also need a government that is protecting people when it comes to being expensive. Therefore, we will not support a government that continues to believe that the child money robbery can be successful. That is why we will be the first to put forward a motion for a resolution today, which will prevent us from doing so, and we hope for a social understanding of your part. [[Quoted print version removed]] I'll ask you for your consent. This would be social – at a time when you have presented a non-social government programme to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16898	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16968	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16990	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Justice Minister! They are indeed the biggest personal surprise the Federal Government has to offer; otherwise there was not much exciting about it. I could read that you were surprised at your order. I assume that this has to do with the fact that you do not have many points of contact, and that you can be referred to as a foreign subject. I don't blame you for that. I cannot blame you for this, because in a government where two State Secretary and a Finance Minister in their department are to be estimated as a foreign subject in which we have an infrastructure minister who has nothing to do with infrastructure, you, as a science minister, who is doing justice policy, are actually not aware at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The real problem with your resort is also quite different. The real problem is that, in future, the ÖVP has been given a comprehensive wealth of power to be given to the ÖVP. I am actually surprised that they did not get the Ministry of Defence from SPÖ as well; then you would have parked all security policy agendas at the ÖVP. The whole thing is surprising because we are currently having a committee of inquiry in the Ministry of the Interior, in which some of our colleagues and colleagues from SPÖ have worked actively. I would like to remind you of a few things: party-politically motivated post crews in the Ministry of the Interior; the whole process with the refugee family Zogaj, where police officers consulted politically motivated data and played journalists to make public moods; politically motivated investigations in the BAWAG case, where the police were deliberately placed on the BAWAG case in the campaign to beat political capital out of it. [[Abg. Scheibner: You never do that, gal!]] And what is the reward for that? – The ÖVP receives from the SPÖ the politically sensitive Ministry of Justice. - That's one. And what's the other one? What will be the consequence of this? – I look at the government programme and see some of the projects that are contained in it: Development of the surveillance state, keyword on-line search. How will this be done in the future? – The ÖVP Minister of the Interior will negotiate with the ÖVP Justice Minister. Extension of anti-terrorism legislation: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will negotiate with the Minister for Justice of the ÖVP. It's not like I trust the SPÖ to be a correct. I remember a year ago the security police law was discussed here in the house. It was about expanding police rights in the Security Police Act: Half of the SPÖ has slept, and the other one has read off the wishes of the lips. But I already see a problem in the fact that SPÖ has given up security policy. This shows the importance of a social policy ministry as important as the Ministry of Justice for the SPÖ. The importance is also expressed by the fact that in his written declaration of government, the Federal Chancellor has just made a paragraph; in his oral presentation it was then only a sentence. The Ministry of Justice is important for society, and I wonder: Does the SPÖ have nothing to say about such important materials as rental law? – There is a social-political scope for design. Why has it been abandoned? People spend a large part of their household income on rents today, as you can do something about social policy. What's the SPÖ doing? – It gives the Ministry of the ÖVP, and we know what ÖVP’s rental law policy looks like. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Modern family law: exactly the same! There you can show your handwriting in social political terms. What's the SPÖ doing? – It gives the Ministry of Justice of the ÖVP, and we know what positions the ÖVP represents in family law. The rule of law, the protection of the rule of law, would be an important task the SPÖ could have performed. It doesn't interest the SPÖ, and even worse: Even those projects that justice minister Berger has launched in the last one and a half years are being questioned in this government agreement. Jugendgerichtshof: Although this is in it, it is subject to financing. Anyone who knows the financial, budgetary situation in justice knows that this will not happen. The same with the Anti-Corruption Procuratorate: One thing, for which Berger has been massively committed, is subject to a reservation of funding. This cannot be achieved under the given framework conditions – if you know the budgetary situation in the judicial policy, you know it. [[Abg. New builder: Now you cry after Berger, and before you fought!]] The relief package shall be evaluated. Well, you can still hope that at least that remains because the evaluation is positive. The summit was probably the resignation of Minister of Justice Berger. I didn't always have an opinion with her, in many points not even her opinion, but one thing you have to leave her: She was engaged, she tried a lot. Thank you for having been exchanged. No one understands! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17058	Next, Mrs Rudas is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17076	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at the gallery! Mr Grosz, I listened carefully and just didn't understand where the red thread is supposed to be. - Well, he's not here at all. Mr Grosz complains about the eating behaviour of our members of the government and is not in the house himself; sorry. [[Call to the ÖVP:Eating also went!]] Maybe you can make it up to him – meal to the colleagues! –: I didn't understand the red thread. [[Abg. Scheibner: That you don't understand something red?- Oh, my God!]] He points out to a colleague how much he deserves; all Members deserve the same amount. He's thinking about where ministers eat at lunch. This is not a political debate! I think people are simply tired of this hack and want political contentions. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then start!]] There's enough room for that. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is enough room for political debate in the government programme, there is enough room here. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... call heads!]] But if politics itself no longer takes itself seriously – and this appearance was more than taking it seriously itself – then no one else will. At some point, the day will come when no one will vote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why Mr Stefan's announcement pleased me that he will deliver ideas and bring ideas. Of course, the government programme has enough room to bring in all the ideas. That's the point, too. We all have a pleasure if negotiators make up a schedule for the next five years within a few weeks. Of course, it is important to bring in ideas, and it is right that the government – for all parties, for all people – is open to good ideas. The government programme leaves enough room, and the opposition should be glad that it can contribute. That is why I am looking forward to Mr Stefan's ideas, because there should be enough room for political discussions here. This also applies to justice, Mr Steinhauser, whom I would of course have liked to have been with us, as well as home affairs and finance; that is not a question. But I believe that a new form of politics should also be a new form of team spirit in the government, so that matters and objects are worked out together. There, the involvement of the opposition will be very important. That is why I would not be so keen on who has which offices, and the new Minister of Justice, because of her party independence, would give sufficient advance confidence to support them at the beginning, especially at the beginning. I think that if someone is critically optimistic – which does not mean “uncritical” – then cooperation will work better than in the last 18 months. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17161	Mr Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17183	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Something makes this debate about the Declaration of Government clear once again: The location determines the position. The opposition naturally criticizes the government programme. [[Abg. Neubauer: Right!]] I mean, an honest, open criticism is basically something positive. However, the solutions are largely missing and partly completely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] You don't say how you want to do it differently or better! If you would say so, we could discuss it properly. They sit in your communities often also in the councils or are there officials. Now I ask you as a representative of the opposition parties: Can you argue at home in such a way that you say that you are against it, but you do not explain to your people why you are against it? Can you say that you're against it, but don't have a solution that you want to do differently and better? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] In my home community this is not happening, and there it is not done by any of the parties that are represented there. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, the really concrete, positive measures are simply misrepresented and completely unnecessaryly negative. I don't think that's all right. Read at least the last pages of the government programme, in which, from page 274, the financial chapter clearly and clearly shows how much money this government takes into its hands to relieve first taxpayers and families and to counter the financial and economic crisis, namely, with two economic packages of around €1.1 billion – while the federal states also decide on additional packages such as Upper Austria – as well as the tax relief in the tax system of around €2.3 billion, which relieves taxpayers and the medium-sized countries. In addition, there is a discharge package for families with a total of € 900 million. And all this is nothing? All that's not worth anything? – I ask all the mandates, including those of the opposition, to recognise and appreciate at least what is being done in this area. In this context, I also call the 13. Family allowances, the free kindergarten before entering the school, the relief for families with the amount of the allowance or the increase in the amount of the allowance. Mrs Glawischnig presented it today as if those families or persons who do not pay a tax had nothing at all of the family package. – This is, of course, wrong, because the amount of child replacement is valid for all children and all families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] – But it should be said, Mr Kogler! But here it is again presented the untruth. Finally, I call you the tax deductibility of child care costs of 2 300 € per year to the tenth year of the child's life. This means, for a single earner family with a monthly income of €1,400 gross – and of these there are many in Austria – a discharge of around €2,000 a year, and in view of that, I wonder if it is not really worth mentioning that the right measures are correct, because the help comes exactly where we want it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore ask you, as a member of the opposition, to recognise and appreciate the positive measures that are undoubtedly included here in the debate on a government programme, with all the open criticism that is quite necessary. I mean, the latter should do you as a people's representative!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17238	Next, Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17260	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! On one point, I have to give Mr Grosz the right. The fact that the new Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor appear so disrespectfully by shining through absence at 6 p.m. is simply a scandal! You really have to repeat that again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's where you're wondering: Was that really all? Was that all we've chosen again? Was this the product that resulted from this new government, which was so to speak pushed into the government by a daily newspaper? If that's the case, I almost believe it! If, with what has been presented here, ladies and gentlemen, one claims to rule this country of Austria, then this is not ambitious. That is what I am really saying to you from this point of view. With this government programme, you have set the targets down so far that you can exclude a failure as far as possible now. Mr Wöginger has just said that it should be appreciated. Mr Wöinger! I can appreciate something when it comes to Life is fulfilled when these declarations of intent are also filled with content, ladies and gentlemen. I would then like to ask what Mr Westenthaler has already put in the room in the morning: Where are your concepts for combating poverty? A million Austrians are almost at the poverty line. 3 500 people can't heat their apartments this winter. You assured seniors that you will continue to secure the pensioner price index in the future. But here, too, you fell by! You have fallen into the automatic pension scheme, you have fallen by the hacker scheme, and you have fallen into the prescription fee scheme. There must be fear of your health! You all have to have a sluggish trauma because you have fallen over so many times! At the end of the day, in connection with the subject of safety concerning Temelín the barrel, you have really knocked out the ground. They have actually managed to have a sentence on the subject of Temelín and, at the same time, two sentences in the government programme on the subject of EURATOM. I shall therefore put forward two motions for resolutions. The first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm seeking goodwill. The second request is: Resolution of Deputies Werner Neubauer, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Mag. Roman Haider, Anneliese Kitzmüller and other Members concerning the behaviour of the Czech Republic in the development of the Temelín AKW ==References== In November 2008, the second block of the Czech nuclear power plant Temelín had to be removed from the grid. After the first block of the nuclear power station was shut down by the end of July due to turbine problems, the power plant was temporarily stopped. The shutdown was done automatically on the basis of a signal from the generator's protective system, the exact cause is unknown so far. With this recent disturbance, Temelín becomes more and more a technical and economic disaster. An opinion adopted by the Anti-Atom Commissioner of Upper Austria, Radko Pavlovec. Since the commissioning of the Temelín AKW at the end of 2000, more than 100 incidents have already occurred. Despite the innumerable disturbances and the massive safety concerns, the ČEZ energy group is in the process of expanding the Temelín AKW and expanding the planned blocks 3 and 4. The completion of blocks 3 and 4 could amount to 130 billion crowns, that is, approximately 5.53 billion(!) €, costs; Construction is expected to start in 2013. The current problem is the implementation of a proper EIA procedure, which has so far been refused by the Czech Republic. As early as May 2007, the European Commission rejected the implementation of an EIA in accordance with Czech law and invited the Government to apply European Directive 85/337/EEC, 10a and granted a period of two months to deliver an opinion. Nothing is happening to this day. Thus, the Czech Republic has been sparse with the Temelín EIA for over a year and a half. No action has yet been taken by the European Union. In the context of energy supply by nuclear power, the Czech Republic is thus going beyond all the rules and laws of the European spirit. A mental attitude that has already been clearly demonstrated by the Milker Agreement. At that time, the Czech Republic distanced itself from the content and the international liability of the Agreement. ==References== ==References== While a cross-border ‘preliminary procedure for environmental impact assessment’ took place in Bavaria and Saxony on October 2008; Participants in this EIA procedure for the establishment of new nuclear power plants in Temelín – three anti-atomic groups from Bavaria, the Czech Republic and Upper Austria – have filed a complaint against the infringement of EU law and for failure to comply with European directives on the control of environmental impact assessments to the EU Commission. The Czech Government has rejected the proposals for out-of-court resolution of the conflict as part of an open letter. The Czech Government thus knowingly tolerates the breach of EU law and this despite the forthcoming EU Presidency of the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, the EIA procedure is not part of the authorisation procedure, but has a completely isolated position. The EIA Decision is not enshrined in Czech administrative law, but merely constitutes a “technical basis” for the “necessary procedures” (e.g. construction procedures). Nor does it constitute a decision in the legal sense and therefore cannot be challenged by court. This means that even a negative EIA decision does not have to automatically lead to the start of the project. This is contrary to EU law, specifically Article 10a of EIA Directive 85/337/EEC, which regulates access to judicial review by the parties involved. On the basis of the facts and facts cited and of the threat to the Austrian population, the Members who have been signed are therefore: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management and the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs, is invited to act on the European Union or the European Commission as well as on the Czech Republic in order to ensure that, in the course of the extension of blocks 3 and 4 of the Temelín AKW, especially in the associated EIA procedures, both international treaties and European law are complied with and implemented." In addition, the Federal Government is invited to submit to Parliament a report on the progress of the measures within a period of three months. I would also like to ask for our requests to be accepted in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17433	Both motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17457	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I have failed the public service in respect of reform notices in the the programme, with the exception of the announcement that there should be more police officers, but divided into five years. I will deal with this later in concrete terms. The most important thing about the public service is always the motivation for me. However, we have had so-called internal terminations over the last two years, not least because of the behaviour of the last Federal Government, and today's programme is likely to continue. The internal termination, which is to be found more and more, in the public service, has in fact been the cause of the redundancies over and over again. The announcement that there are also 1,000 police officers is a bit controversial from my point of view. The Minister responsible has made announcements here, and there is also a government proposal. In the announcement she spoke of 800 people: Posts are being re-occupied, which have been freed by retirement. Then there should be another 200 a year. And with the 800 she's already a little restricted. I quote Minister Fekter from the APA now: At the moment, there is nothing concrete to be done. Whether this is actually the case depends on the number of pensions. - Quote. That's not so safe! The additional 200 posts are a statement of intent. Then it will be quite difficult at all, and I think the President should reconsider the announcement of the amendment of the Civil Service Law in his capacity as GÖD Chairman. Now a job is assigned to an official. Another post could thus far be assigned to him by a post, and three months a year a service assignment can also be carried out against the will of the staff member. Now, however, something else is being invented, namely an allocation, and that in view of the fact that there is no charge for RGV-moderately, i.e. travel fee. That is a clear disparity! How you want to achieve motivation, I can't imagine that at the best of will! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Rudas has said that it is open to constructive proposals. – If I look at current crime statistics, it is a mystery to me as to what is happening in the field of security that one does not say: We'll pick up a thousand extra cops right now! I think that a thousand additional planning posts would be the right answer to what we are now experiencing in the field of crime! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With regard to the two-year training period, one has to imagine: If one now speaks of a thousand posts and of the fact that in five years the last tranche of two hundred people is to be taken up, that means seven years until all can be fully used. Mr Rudas also spoke of the "Flexipool". – This is actually just the concealment of the fact that one wants to deny rights! Mr Rudas said that these employees would then have no right to reposition for five years and that they would be flexibly employed for two years after their initial training, where there is the greatest need, two years after E2c training, the third and the fourth years of service. – If there is not an editorial mistake in the government template, it is said that this takes place in the E2b area under the responsibility of the National Police Command. For the time being, the colleague has left it open, whether this should not even be applied throughout the country. Now I imagine an example in Lower Austria: In Gmünd, a colleague receives a march command to Wiener Neustadt or a little further to the south. It does not contain a travel fee and is simply sent for two years. If you keep in mind all that's broken up with Dr. Haidinger, you can imagine how the Ministry of the Interior is handled! I can still remember the times when there were Lower Austrian ministers of the interior. They have also not developed a sense of injustice. This does not surprise me, for if, in the country of Lower Austria, only one party appears on the polls in a staff election, then you know how to deal with public officials there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we strongly oppose the introduction of such an allocation, because this remains always to be feared that one will then be taken by the political gang and that one will explain to the very young colleagues how important it is that I might even be involved with the ÖVP. Chancellor Faymann has said today, on the question of who is guilty of the financial debacle, that it is not the workers. The colleague I very much appreciate Auer then said that it is of course not the traders and those in the agricultural sector either. And of course it is not those who are in the public service! – However, this shows once again the underestimation that has now come back. We want to see useful reforms from this next federal government, which are at the forefront of the motivation of the individual staff.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17549	Mr Pirklhuber is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17570	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Deputies of windwood have just spoken about the need for more motivation. – This is well justified, because in view of the performance of the new federal government, there is today a need to find courage for the chancellor and tired statements of the government leaders. The Minister of Health obviously has a multiple sleep deficit. That may have personal reasons. Maybe you can explain this to us. Minister of Health! You will have to deal with a lot over the next few weeks and months, and I would just like to point out that it will not be possible to change the necessary framework conditions in the health sector, but that you will have very important tasks in your area, such as the defence of the Austrian import bans of genetic engineering plants at European level. You will therefore be required to go beyond the level of technical management or administrative activities. I agree with you, just the Food safety is one of the few points in the government programme with a slightly more concrete nature. That the Health and Food Safety Act is amended and that the Agency for Health and Food Safety is finally placed on comprehensible and, so to speak, long-term financial legs is in line with a criticism by the Court of Auditors and also by the Greens here in the House that funding needs to be secured. . We are curious about your budget proposals; we will discuss them here shortly. It also includes issues such as the evaluation of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act and the conclusions to be drawn from it. – We are curious about this and expect a constructive and critical debate in the committees. I believe that in these few points, Mr Maier, who has been in this House again since today, we see a certain seriousness and determination to continue working in this area. And that will mean great challenges, Minister Stöger, because you are required at European level! I therefore believe that you should in your department very quickly ensure that the necessary work on the part of staff is ensured, as has been the case so far. In the health resort there are excellent experts at official level. I would now like to refer to the comments made by your colleague, Mr Berlakovich, who is now obviously already at the Jause. [[Abg. Peter Haubner: Don't talk stupid!]] He has given a clear opinion on food safety here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Mr Berlakovich, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, will have to present his first sample tomorrow: ==References== The EU Environment Council will take place on December, in which the Commission's proposals will be discussed, to step up its efforts to prevent the spread of genetically modified plants and to take measures to ensure non-genotechnic production. Austria – and also the Austrian Parliament – has so far made good proposals in this debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Haubner.]] I would remind you of the five-party proposal in July, Mr President. At that time, we all said: The new Federal Government must work at European level for the right of self-determination of the GMOs. At its reading today, the Federal Chancellor, as we have to say, left out exactly that sentence in this regard, which is contained in the document of speech. I'll read this to you, because he has to write this sentence behind his ears, for this he has to work at the highest level. That's why I'm reading it to you now: ‘Austria intends to ensure the appropriate framework conditions so that Austria can continue to decide for itself whether it agrees to the use of genetically modified foods or not.’ I believe that this will really prove how serious it is for you to ensure the basis of life in this country, to ensure food safety and to take real account of the interests of citizens on an intact environment and on healthy food at European level. As I said, Berlakovich has to face this challenge tomorrow. He has to defend this dossier and ensure that seeds remain free from genetic engineering and that our non-genocidal concepts and the right to self-determination are implemented. It's clear: If a minister of agriculture today finds very few words on environmental policy, then one must also openly criticize it, especially from a agricultural policy point of view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] We must criticise this because agricultural policy, when it is a good agricultural policy, is an element of an efficient environmental policy, Mr President. This represents the challenge of developing organic farming, ensuring water resources and ensuring the quality of water. And one thing he could have mentioned today: a departure from completely overburdened targets for agrofuels. Ladies and gentlemen, the German Bundestag, the experts of the German Bundestag have just come up with an expertise from the German Federal Government to revise these goals. There is no word in this Government Convention to go away from the sprinkling of maize, from the production of diesel from rape, in the final consequence of food when it comes to esterification of cereal plants. A word on rural and economic development: The economic package for the rural regions – where is it? The protection of agricultural jobs. That would be the challenge I would expect to face, and not the eternal act of improving competition and structural change, as it has come from this side today. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] You have remained guilty of these answers. We will then see in the concrete work – as measures are not yet available – how seriously you mean it with an actual restart for Austria. At present, the signs do not stand for the future, but rather for status quo, for storage instead of actively addressing the future challenges. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17634	Next, Mr. Dr. Kräuber, speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17655	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Pirklhuber, it is actually below your level that you blame a minister who, after a meeting lasting more than nine hours, may take a short step. I know you as a serious argumenting politician, but today we have just been taught to another person. The central question, ladies and gentlemen, is probably what the opposition has actually lived on in the last two years. Were they concepts, were they ideas, were it charismatic personalities or was it the dispute and the struggle within the last federal government? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Could be that it was both!]] You have rightly raised this accusation. You said: This is not a partnership, it is not a cooperation, it is not a common partnership. What are you doing now, where there is a partnership, a cooperation and a common ground? They're talking about gag contracts, Apparaks, raising the cuddly accusation. – What do you have to offer? First of all, a superblamage in general bear science; unacceptable derailments in the last days and still no concepts, no ideas, no personalities. On the topic Already term: That's really unique. I have never experienced this at all, that a federal government, which has not yet been praised, is already being reproached in advance. [[Abg. Scheibner: You forgot 2000! At least now there is no protest against the government, and there are no sanctions against Austria!]] I think about the topic: The opposition cannot already be expected. We will ask mercilessly for concepts, ideas and proposals from the opposition. [[Abg. Grosz: You just need to read our resolutions!]] To the style, colleague Scheibner: Incidents, verbal jury, denunciations – I only mention “Gruselkabinett” or the blasphemy of a country captain as a grandma. To blame food intake – Mr Grosz, that was particularly original. Do you seriously believe that the population is gilling it? Do you seriously believe that this has something to do with politics or parliamentary debate? Ladies and gentlemen, the population is already making a very different picture of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, I naturally offer cooperation. I also have very good experience with colleagues from all parties. We will then see how this contentious debate is going on. Of course there will also be discussions, debates and controversy, a competition of ideas between SPÖ and ÖVP. That's quite normal, but that's also different parties. However, I can guarantee that much: This will be very cultivated in style and in form and very constructive. That is what the population is rightly expecting. The focus of the work will be on workers' policy, ladies and gentlemen. The preferred tax reform, which increases purchasing power, economic packages that will help keep unemployment as low as possible. Vice chancellor Josef Pröll said correctly: This is a common policy on matters, we want to master the crisis, relieve people and strengthen the economy. What is the confession of our Federal Chancellor? What is Faymann important? Social values in the country, commitment to youth and a solidarity society. – Good luck of this federal government!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17724	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17746	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Polish opposition policy is one thing, responsible government policy is another. I would rather stick to the facts and data of responsible government policy since 2000. The facts are simply convincing: For example, we have increased exports from 20 percent of gross social product to over 50 percent. We have a job in Austria, as we never had before. This was possible on the basis of the sustainable tax and economic policy we have done in Austria together with the various government partners. Therefore, the main objective must continue to be to consistently reduce the tax rate and not to introduce new taxes. We still have deficits in both European and international comparisons, which we need to eliminate. It is clear to me that we will not only do this on the revenue side, but we will also have to take action on the expenditure side. That is why we will not miss a structural reform of the administration. The planned measures of the new government are suitable for a strong response to the emerging economic crisis. Advanced tariff relief will thus strengthen purchasing power and produce additional consumption. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ.]] - You don't need to laugh like that. 2 500 € Redemption for a family with two children, I think it has never been in this order before. The increase in the amount of allowances for invested profits is a measure that will help eliminate discrimination in corporate taxation and also create new tax incentives for investment. The economic packages also ensure employment through advanced infrastructure investments. Additional temporary tax withdrawals, such as the degressive AFA, will provide appropriate incentives for employment. Ladies and gentlemen! The Faymann and Pröll government will meet the great economic challenges with its team, but it also needs the support of all parties, especially the opposition parties. It would certainly have failed to help overcome these challenges. However, it is of particular importance that the parliamentary clubs of the Socialist Party and the ÖVP take a lead. We will not be able to master this crisis with pessimism and fear of being heard from the opposition parties over and over again. No, no, no, The opposite is the case! With the statements and measures shown, we will be able to continue to lead Austria on the right track.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17800	The next speaker is Mr Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17821	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! If the Austrian coughs have, they do not go to the doctor, but to the concert, is an ancient joke – which has a real core for the horror of many conductors. The other truth is that we Austrians are one of the best, but also the most complex health systems in the world. With expenditure of around 10.3 percent of GDP, we are moving in the upper European third, but the share remained almost the same despite medical progress since 1999. So we do not seem to have an expenditure problem when we are talking about a financing crisis in the health system, but we have a revenue problem, especially because the financing system is rewarding. Why don't I tell you this new one here in the general debate? – I therefore address it because I am still impressed by how amateurally discussed the reform of the local health system in the spring of this year. I am therefore discussing it because in the wind shadow of this reform a final piece of freedom, namely the freedom of the established medical profession should be sacrificed. And I'll tell you: This won't work, it'll hit our hardest and sharpest resistance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore address this because I assume that in a few weeks again a health reform will be discussed, which will not, in turn, discuss the real causes of the financial crisis. I also address it because, when I read the government program, I was actually able to recognize only many common places and nothing new and brave. I say to you that there is a real substantial reform. – Perhaps the statement that the Federal Government is committed to ensuring the solidarity of Austrian health care is understood as a sign of a better future? Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! If you are seriously interested in reforming the domestic health system, you need to note that the most important cost driver is the hospitals and that 20 health insurance companies without structural It is not possible to achieve a balance between the two. You must note that the cheapest, most efficient and earliest treatment is to be found in the established area, which it is necessary to protect and expand. That's what we expect from you. Minister Stöger, during the last legislative period, the health policy of Csárdás, Schweinsbraten, Zank and Hader was influenced. In this respect, your announcement should be positive in order to involve all stakeholders in the reform process in the health care process. This is especially true of the medical profession, which has often only been passed over in the past. The welfare of our patients must not be left to the lobbyists and economists. We expect clear signs from you that the population and, above all, the service providers are deeply concerned about possible deterioration in the Austrian health system. The government statement today has not yet been what we – hopefully – can expect from you in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17873	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17894	Madam President. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Sorry: Mr President. High house! [[Abg. Keck: Wrong speech!]] Federal Chancellor Faymann said that, as far as the financial crisis is concerned, the Wallstreet banker lacked transparency. – I can only say: On the contrary! They knew exactly what they did. They have managed to turn on financial products, which have been said to be very creative and ultimately have no value, to ours, and not just our banks, but to the international banks. They knew exactly what they were doing. Whoever really lacked transparency, these were our banks. Our bank managers bought products from which they had to admit in retrospect that they did not understand them. Now, where fire is on the roof, the Austrian banks have finally understood that it cannot go that way and have publicly declared that they will no longer buy products that they do not understand from now on. – I can only say: Bravo! The insight just came a little late. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The main problem is that the bill for these speculations is paid once again by taxpayers. And we're asked twice to the cash register: We have to raise the €15 billion that has already been decided here – from my point of view: unfortunately. But that won't be enough. That means there's going to be much more going into a barrel without a floor. This financial system, this banking system, is not sustainable. Here's an example: There is a global derivative market. For all who do not know: Derivatives are from real goods, shares or other derived products. Even in relation to the weather, one can create derived products. And then you can bet on falling or rising courses. These derivatives make up $600 000 billion worldwide. These are only the derivatives that are worldwide in circulation, and that is twelve times as much as the entire world economic performance. In other words, it is speculated twelve times as much as it actually flows into the economy and actually creates added value. That has to give us real thought! International financial experts say that probably 1 to 5 percent of these derivatives are lazy, i.e. these derivatives are ultimately non-reliable and have to be written off somewhere. If I only count one percent, that would be $6,000 billion. If it really is 5 percent, as international financial experts believe, then it is half the global economic performance that needs to be written off if you have to write down only 5 percent of the derivatives. So you can see: The banking system in the form now perverted – and you really have to say that it was perverted – cannot hold that. It can't last long. That's exactly the point! If we put good tax money into a financial system that is not sustainable, then I can only say one thing: Banks usually have the task of putting money into the economy. In other words, someone does not use it and the bank passes on the money to create added value. An entrepreneur can create added value by investing. This is the natural, not perverted function of a bank. If the bank is not willing or unable to do so, the state must take over it and put the money into the economy and not into the banks. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A few days ago, a woman in Lower Austria approached me, an entrepreneur who had a new start-up with three employees. It has not even received an account from a bank with the information that it is not worthy of credit, and if it cannot get credit, it is not a business for the bank, and therefore there is no account either. She went to a second bank and didn't get an account. Only after I took care of the matter and approached the media did it work. That's exactly the point! That's not how it's done! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is, if we already take so much money into our hands, then it should make economic sense and we should definitely invest the money where it is produced, and not where it is speculated. I am now tabling the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17987	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18060	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18081	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Mrs Marek, Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen in the galleries! I am here for the first time as a President of the Greens' Family and Constitution and will give a brief opinion on both subjects. At the beginning of the family package: What exactly does this family package include? – I believe that it provides a very weak incentive to paternal participation. It includes an income-dependent child's allowance and the so-called papal month. We are Greens, that has already been done by Eva Glavischnig today, of course very glad that our long-standing demands have been made and have stimulated a rethinking. However, you, Mrs. State Secretary, make public statements or concreteizations rather suggest that no sustainable trend change will be achieved in the participation of fathers in child rearing, in child care. She as a single mother and I as a single mother know how important it would be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Furthermore, this family package is socially incomplete and short-sighted, as low-income families are not taken into account until little. Their proposals in the overall government agreement do not include any proposals to combat poverty. At this point I would like to stay a little longer. They take €500 million as a so-called family relief package. These, however, mainly benefit more deserving, more income - strengthening families. [[Abg. Head: Redundancies!]] If you look through your fingers again, these are families that don't pay taxes. This is from my point of view family, female and social policy, because you do not see the problems and do not attack them either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: Redundancies! Retirement amounts are exactly for the little ones!]] They know – and we have heard this many times today – that a million people in Austria live in poverty, including 250 000 children and young people, and in addition, mostly single women. The Austrian families are subject to multiple burdens – rising housing costs, rising food costs, child care costs and much more; I don't need to tell you that – and many families can afford their lives now. So there are not only the families who live in poverty and can no longer afford it now, but also those who can afford it just now, but who live in the legitimate fear that it could change quite quickly and that they could get into this poverty quite quickly – and that in Austria, one of the richest countries in the world! It's embarrassing! It is therefore not to be seen that we continue to see that the resources in this country are so unfairly distributed. I therefore call on all the ladies and gentlemen in this House to work with us courageously towards a real, just distribution policy, otherwise it will look bad for the people of this country, because we must help those who really need this help. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Government Declaration has already read to us today – I would also like to quote from it –: “Measures us in our efforts to achieve improvements for those most vulnerable to competition in a globalised economy!” Yes, dear government, I take it here by word! I wonder where you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have given your social conscience and your women's policy views. I hope, in the “Pfandl” – or for all those who do not understand Viennese: in the pledge loan, because there you can trigger it again, and that would be urgently necessary. I therefore call for real solutions, fair solutions, effective social solutions, and I would like to repeat briefly here: social security for all, combating poverty through, for example, basic need-based security, legal minimum wage, commitment and courage to distribution policies, which would also contribute significantly to the financing of other benefits, investment in infrastructure, that is, comprehensive free childcare including the qualitative standards for staff working in these areas, a fatherly protection month, which includes full income replacement, models that promote equality and women's policy are effective, for example, a comprehensive model of income-dependent care, and, lastly, the valorization of family support. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] See, social policy could look like that! We Greens in general and I as a family spokesperson in particular will demand this over the next few years, which you can certainly be. And one last thing about family policy: Family policy also means equal rights for lesbians and gays. – A working group is not enough here, we demand a partnership law that includes pension and social security legislation, and above all rights for binational couples, so that both partners can live in that country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hear: Can they ever!]] Now I would like to focus briefly on the constitutional and administrative reform that can be found in this programme: We welcome the proposal for the introduction of multi-stage administrative jurisdiction, but the main objective here is to achieve efficiency, as read in this Government Convention. We hope and we expect that the issue of legal protection will also be taken into account here and that a focus will be placed on this, for we see, for example, from the asylum court, that projects to be used for the acceleration do not always serve to speed up – we see this from the figures – but that there will also be consequences on the other side, for example in the Constitutional Court, where a doubling of the cases is expected, without sufficient equipment being guaranteed. There are a number of other reform projects, which we would like to participate in a discussion, beginning with the extension of control of a catalogue of fundamental rights and competence, the discussion on direct democracy, the partitioning of citizens, the upgrading of parliamentarism, the upgrading of minority rights in Parliament – as an example of which the Committee of Inquiry is called minority law – and I can assure you that I will bring here numerous initiatives for discussions, but also for concrete arrangements. Today, I have already submitted one with Mr Korun in the form of an application, namely an application for the municipal right to vote for immigrants. I am already very excited how the colleagues of the Vienna SPÖ, whether it be on the government bank or in the high house, will position themselves to do so, those colleagues who have indeed contributed to this project in Vienna. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18188	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18210	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In many speeches of the opposition, it was complained that Parliament would not play a major role anymore. . I believe that there is quite a field of activity in which cooperation is desired and sought, namely in the area of constitutional and administrative reform, and I believe that it offers the opportunity for this great chapter not only to be dealt with by the government alone but ultimately to be blessed here in Parliament and finally to be negotiated. I believe that there are areas in which agreement can be reached with a large majority. There is, of course, one chapter which has found a lot of consensus in the Convention, namely the introduction of the national administrative courts, which in principle operate in a two-stage instance with individual judges' decisions, but which are also intended to make possible Senate decisions on material legislation, and in which ultimately specialist Senates can also take action. In this respect, there is a consensus of four parties in this Parliament. I think you can sit here and really do something. – It will be up to us here in Parliament, because in this respect the initiative will not be taken by the government but by Parliament, and I believe that there can be a reasonable arrangement. I also believe that we have to examine the right to vote for his mistakes, which we know have been abused, or that there is an inadmissibility. I just remember that it was not possible, for example, to make the choice of letter where the election card was taken. That was a problem for many older people. – I think that this should be resolved. I also believe that we agree on the need to continue in the legalisation of the federal constitution and to establish a simpler, more readable constitution with fewer constitutional provisions, which are already dead right. I believe that we have a field of activity in which the initiative lies here in Parliament, in which we are not only dependent on government projects, but in the end we have to take control of the issue and reach a cross-party agreement on some very important point.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18252	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18273	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The area of safety has been very often stressed today, and if you look back, then in recent years much has moved in the field of safety. I think the only answer to the challenges in security policy is that the framework conditions are constantly adapting and improving. Let's take a look back: Under Ernst Strasser, the launch of the "team04" police and gender reform took place, then Ms. Federal Minister Prokop, Federal Minister Platter and now Ms. Fekter. – It has moved a lot, and I believe that this is very important, which is already reflected in the government programme – it will have to do a lot in the future to meet international and national requirements. It is simply about all of us having a very high security need, and we can only satisfy this need if the framework conditions are right. In this context, of course, the topic of personnel has often been questioned critically, so personnel management is a central topic in the security field: Where and how is the staff used, where is there additional need, where can staff be used more flexible and efficient? The government programme has set up 1,000 training places over five years, i.e. a total of 5,000 new police officers are being trained for the security service. It has also been established that there will be a so-called staff pool in the future to compensate for and allow flexible allocations, and of course - I say quite openly - we have also increased women in the security service, and so, I believe, this is a fair model - so that we can achieve a balance with this pool. However, I also have a request regarding the Cobra mobile operation command, which we will take more account of the practical applications in the future, that we might keep the fixed units more flexible and thus be able to satisfy the everyday safety needs. Finally, I believe, there are high safety standards in Austria – international rankings prove that Austria is in the top international field in this regard. The latte is very high because, after the successful project Schengen and the European Championship, we want to be able to guarantee security in all situations in the future. From my point of view, the guarantee is the government programme and, of course, to a very high degree also our Minister of the Interior Maria Fekter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18325	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18346	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! What I warned of at the first meeting of the National Council has now arrived and become a reality: I am getting more and more calls from friends, acquaintances and former customers with the content that banks block their accounts, that minor transfers are no longer possible, because of possibly 50, 100, 250 € for some life-necessary payments. These people can no longer be sure that they can only fulfill the minimum Christmas wishes of their next relatives and children – actually a very sad circumstance. Of course, this has to do with the fact that the government is sparse and does not take the necessary steps to get the measures decided in the House where they belong, namely to the population, to the hardworking, working citizens in this country, to the small and medium-sized enterprises that need it so much to keep an economy alive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, we must now really take every step and put pressure on the banks to pass on these loans as well. But if we have already gone so far that we have made 100 billion € available – with a lot of abdominal pain, as almost all the political groups have emphasized here – we must also ensure that we have control of what might happen to you. Because even though it is only, as has been said many times, liability, it is credit and liabilities that one should already know what is going on with it. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] With reference to today's presentation of the government and the government programme, I can only say the following: In view of the upcoming days of customs, this was a political struggle! Black-red rattles with the chains and spits fire in the form of rags, but shows itself immediately empty and dissolves into sound and smoke. But unlike the traditional parchments of which our children know that they do not need to be ashamed, this government and its programme is very much afraid. The Steiermark is not mentioned with any single word! You know, I come from an area that is heavily affected by emigration: The youth is running away from us because there are no training opportunities and no jobs. The company ATB was addressed, but there are many more: Stahl Jüdenburg, Styria Federn – short work or redundancies in a crisis-stricken region that needs to live with the Eurofighters and enjoy living with them. I will be introducing an initiative in the next few weeks, and I hope that we will be able to support the mandates that have been established there in particular. And because Mr Grillitsch is in the first row: We have to do something, Mr Fritz, and I think if we want to, we can do it in a fractional way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18422	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is being discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18484	This is the list of Members of the European Parliament who have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18505	Mr President. Dear ladies and the Lord on the Government Bank! The ratio is 3 : 1, so at the moment the rate of women on the government bank is clear. High house! I can't believe today to make a few comments on the sorry government statement debate. If I look at the list of speakers – we are currently on the number 98 of a total of 131 speakers – I can see that the ÖVP of the former members of the government, by Federal Chancellor Schüssel on Vice Chancellor Molterer on Minister Bartenstein, only the former Foreign Minister Dr. Plassnik, has spoken for the ÖVP and for this government programme. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not a ranking!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would like to know – and I really want to spread a little salt into the wounds of the ÖVP – whether it is correct that the entire ÖVP is behind this government programme and behind Pröll. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer is on the side of the government bank.]] – I don’t think it is, but Mr. Ex-Vice Chancellor Molterer may explain it. It would have been good for the media and for the ORF if he had said during the television broadcast that he is behind or not behind this new government. [[Abg. May. Molterer: (still standing on the side of the government bank) There you can learn something!]] [[Calls and calls between Abg. Grosz and Abg. Dr. Sonnberger.]] Mr. Vice-Chanzler – your successor, Mr. Vice-Chanceller Pröll – has stated in Wels that government participation or government is only possible with SPÖ. – He explained that clearly, and that is why we were actually out of the race, although the BZÖ wanted to rule all the time. You have not even asked us, you have not even invited us to negotiations! They prefer to negotiate with an election loser and go to the next government rather than with one or both voters – together we have won more than 15 percent. And with that I am now at the SPÖ, at the red half of the empire in this high house. Mr Klubobmann Cap – he's a senior Klubobmann, because he's been in this house forever; I can't remember, I don't think I've been in the world yet, that MP Cap wasn't Klubobmann in this House – he made a speech today as a clubman on the government declaration and made a few statements. [[Abg. Grosz:... looks very mummified!]] [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Call the SPÖ:For this he still looks very youthful!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Well, he doesn't look young anymore!]] He said that the opposition and, in particular, the BZÖ has no alternatives to the programmes and the like. – Then he could not have been in this House at the last meeting, at the special meeting of the National Council! For if he had been here or had been listening, he would have noticed that the BZÖ has brought in at least ten applications for the fight against the economic crisis, to the economic package – he would have heard that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will also present our own programme to the citizens of Bälden, an alternative programme to this government programme with 267 pages. It's easy to do something different with this inconsistency program. We're doing the better program! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To the address of my colleague Herbs from my district, from Graz-Umgebung – he is not here; it would have been the same for him, probably he already excludes the BZÖ again –: Who actually has the liberals, which I now include, and the BZÖ excluded, before the election and after the election? – These were the Social Democrats, exclusively the Social Democrats! These have demarcated liberals and BZÖ after the election and before the election! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call:Scandal]] Here millions of voters have been kicked together with feet, and the voters will certainly pay this back to the Social Democrats at the next election. You will get the invoice presented. Now to the government bank: What does the government bank look like? – At the moment, it is very hardy, so weighing. Of the members, most of the federal states are Lower Austria, Vienna and Burgenland – from Burgenland even with two neighbouring ministers, which is all right – but I would not have liked this if I had been in the government. I would not have allowed the other federal states to be waived south and west of the Austrian territory. So I'd have been working for these people, too, coming to the train for some minister or other. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Also a Carinthian!]] But we will in all cases take on this task and commit ourselves to these regions. It's just as the Gerald Groszes said today: In these 267 pages of the government program, there is simply nothing inside. The words Graz, Styria or Klagenfurt, Carinthia do not occur at all. That is, the ÖVP and the SPÖ have already given up. You have left everything in Vienna and here you have the great coalition, which is now led by Faymann and Pröll. But we will still work for these countries. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You can also report a word here! Why not?]] Of course. Ladies and gentlemen, now to the applause at today's sitting. It's just logical that the applause was very weak. There Faymann spoke, read his lecture, read his government statement, because the SPÖ sometimes applauded a little – it was about six times. As Pröll, the vice-channer, read out his statement of government, the ÖVP also gave a weak, not necessarily euphoric applause. [[Abg. May. Molterer: About 25 times, I guess!]] I'd say 25 to 27 times. Let's live the means, okay? But in all cases in total, more applause would have paid off. [[Abg. Höfinger: If you had been watching the content, you would have applauded it!]] So you can see that here the two great ones, who are now together again, do not necessarily want to be together too. The first scratch was already pre-programmed during the discussion on post office closure, on job reduction. Everyone here has tried to get a profit. This has not been achieved. This has not been achieved because Faymann simply used a regulation that has existed for six months, which he knew anyway. Nobody just wanted to be the winner or the loser. Here I would have expected for the first time from the new government, from the new style of this government, to change something together after she has informed herself about the situation. You haven't done that, and so it will be in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So you can see that you don't want to work here together for this country. I'm sorry that my own Minister, my Minister, the Minister of Defense, Darabos, is not here. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You can make a request for the Minister's presence!]] – We don’t need that, we’re going to put it into the debate in one discussion or another. I can sum up here now that it is essential that we have far better alternatives in the oranges, in the future alliance of Austria, than in the two government parties. Once again, that's the essential thing. Finally, and last but not least, I should like to make the following request on safety. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask the honourable Members of the House to agree to this motion for a resolution by the BZO.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18762	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18824	Mr. Liste! On your point of view that 131 Members are on the list of speakers, I should like to say that, according to the present list, it is 140, and your group has a remaining speaking time of 21 minutes. The next speaker is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18848	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Love – last – visitors! Now I'm here in my Function as a youth speaker, and in the government programme, it is clear that children and young people are the most important potential for the future of our lives. I think that's great, I think it's very positive, but I'm sorry that I'm not starting to perform some dances of joy, because it's not that far. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] So far, the issue of youth policy has only been discussed in this House when it comes to employment, training has gone about teaching and education. Why, I wonder, has it not been worth presenting to the Minister for Economic Affairs youth policies? The government programme itself would have some keywords inside, but they could probably be labeled as empty culprits. The answer might be that German Chancellor Faymann said already in the morning: So many things have to be worked out first. And that is my answer to this question. Words such as “Youth Debt”, “Democracy Education”, “Youth Tolerance Review”, “Strengthening Out of School Youth Work” or “Strengthening Youth Cultures” are just big words in this government program, but they are without a signpost. For where does the path of youth policy go? Federal Minister Fekter – she is now also sitting behind me on the government bank – has not even called for such a long time ago that there should be educational camps for children. For children's educational camps! If that is the way that this government is taking, then we cannot go along with Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In short, the youth programme seems to be a non-inflated balloon, and apparently the State Secretary still lacks the pustle. But then to my previous speaker, Laura Rudas, who said that we should all sit down, I would like to continue this proposal to the Secretary of State and hope that she has also read the proposal on the Convention on Children's Rights, which the Greens introduced last week. And he said: “16 years of waiting are enough! – The Convention on Children’s Rights in the Constitution!” It has been a long time since the ratification of the Convention on Children's Rights, and it is time to finally bring the fundamental rights of children and young people into the Constitution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to invite you, Mrs State Secretary, to implement this request together, and I am already looking forward to good cooperation. I am also pleased with many innovative ideas and hope that what has been brought together more or less today will be a new style in this House, especially in youth policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18914	The next item is Mrs Silhavy. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18936	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! When I listened to the speeches of the members of the opposition today, I concluded: The opposition is obviously in a sense crisis. [[Lively ironic cheerfulness among all opposition parties.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Then the government has a depression! She's depressed!]] In a sense crisis, therefore, because the financial crisis, triggered by the economic crisis, has also covered the real economy, but this federal government has responded immediately and strongly opposes this crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Do you re-emphasis on the depression of the Federal Government, on the courage of the Federal Chancellor?]] Mr Pirklhuber, what is the reason for your excitement? I have not heard a constructive proposal from you. There is an economic package, there are measures for labour market policy, there is a tax reform, there is a bundle of measures to counter the effects of this crisis and to combat the likely negative effects in advance. This federal government offers the crisis the forehead, unlike you, who do not know how to deal with your own opposition crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, an essential point and one that is already important in Austria is the tourism sector, which generates about 16% of GDP, and thus has a significant and important role not only in the economy but also in employment policy. We know that the trend in winter season is still relatively good, there are hardly any cancellations there, the level of employment is likely to be maintained, but we also know that the development in 2009 is very, very uncertain, because we have to recognise from the surveys and see that 2009 is due to a decline in budgets and tourist revenues, because business travel and, above all, city travel are affected. There is also the following: Because this federal government places people at the centre because it knows that the economy is only going well if people are well, the government programme for additional efforts of the industry has been taken care of. This is done by increasing the liability framework of the ÖHT from € 250 million to € 500 million, by increasing TOP tourism promotion by 20 percent, by increasing education and job quality, which is directly related to whether one really brings together an increase in quality in tourism. I too would like to address a particular challenge in the tourism sector, namely the compatibility of work and family life, which is particularly difficult in this sector, and above all the wage level, which is an essential aspect. An enhanced cooperation – because this has been discussed here from the point of view of the federal states – I think that Austria's advertising with the tourist organisations of the countries is particularly important because it is possible to take the right measures on the spot. The continuation and further development of model regions is also important – something that goes into the federal states – only to inform the gentlemen who have meant that the federal states are missing – but above all, to strengthen the economic structure of “nearly space” including expansion of infrastructure, because tourism is also an opportunity especially for rural development areas, for those areas which do not have as dynamic economic development as, for example, urban agglomerations. The fact that tourism is an opportunity for people is that tourism is an essential industry, but also an important employer, is recognised by the measures the Federal Government is taking in the interests of fears regarding the impact of the financial crisis on the real economy. And that's why I understand that the opposition is in a crisis, because you can't resist it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19002	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Sonnberger. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19023	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to make a few comments on housing and housing rights, and at the beginning of my speech I would like to refer to the agreement between the Federal Government and countries for more climate protection in residential construction. Legal matters in this area will be ratified in the next few weeks in the Landstags. The energy indicators to be achieved in the construction regulations are becoming more stringent, and certain energy indicators must also be achieved in order to obtain housing funding at all. In the future, the use of innovative, climate-relevant heating and hot water systems is also a prerequisite for the granting of housing aid. As an incentive for thermal renovation and heating renewal, the Federal Government will provide €100 million in 2009 and 2010 to be equally distributed to households and businesses. I think that the federal government is doing a pioneering job, we know that the main burden lies with the countries, and we expect the countries to have the right impulses for the thermal renovation in the next few years, because this would also bring a great deal of economic policy. The new construction and renovation of public buildings should be based on the strict promotion standards of the new federal state agreement. By 2020, all buildings whose renovation is urgently needed are to be renovated. The Government Convention also lays down the legal rules governing the payment of the cost of the energy card. Furthermore, the government programme fixed a minimum reserve in the WEG, taking into account the amount of the house's age and state of conservation, but the owners can choose by majority decision a different procedure, i.e. this is dispositive law. Furthermore, it is envisaged that the term conservation in the event of renovations should be extended to allow the installation of a solar system in the course of a roof repair. There are also changes to the heating billing law, because individual heating billing for passive houses would probably not make much sense anymore. Other essential innovations in the style of living: clarification of the maintenance and maintenance obligation between tenants and landlords for the interior of the rental property, while weighing the OGH jurisdiction; facilitating the creation of will in residential property; the creation of a judicial opportunity to counteract the abuse of the rights of individual owners of housing in cases where unanimity is necessary by an extended ban on harassment; the introduction of a threshold of 5 per cent for the indicative values, but the value-resistance of the rent is conditional; Improvements for apartment tenants in the area of broker commissions. I believe, in total, that I would like to conclude, that in the negotiations on the right of residence the focus on the common potential was in the foreground and the separate regulatory content was eliminated. If the present government programme is implemented in a serious way, this is a real step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19086	The next item is the speech by Mr Grastaur. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19108	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I begin with a motion for a resolution which concerns the disclosure and coverage of salaries in the field of press promotion and the ORF. Some facts about this: Press promotion will amount to around €13 million in 2008. Three-quarters of this total amount goes to only 14 Austrian well-known newspapers and magazines. It has recently been announced in an e-mail that was played to us that in a well-known print medium in the guide areas salaries should be up to € 25,000 per month. In the ORF there are, as you know – that's no secret – fairy tales that are paid out and that contribute to the ORF's nighting on the hunger cloth and just before the bankruptcy. In view of the fact that out of the circle of these media, criticism of overpaid politicians is constantly being voiced, but at the same time tax money is accepted and partly paid out with this huge salary, the honourable Members Vilimsky, Grazeit, put forward the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government template providing for mandatory disclosure of salaries and other grants paid by media companies to publishers and editors who are supported by public funds. Furthermore, salaries in this area should not exceed the reference of a Member to the Austrian National Council." End of motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am here on my subject, on saving in the public sector and saving on state finance itself. This is my topic as a budget speaker of the Freedom Party. I would remind you that we currently have 190 billion euros in debt in the government budget, for which we have 9 billion euros to pay in interest, namely the taxpayer. In the next five years, roughly, due to the budget planning about €30 billion in debt, the interest rates will amount to well over €10 billion annually. Dealing with money in the public sector in the Republic of Austria is adventurous for me. Saving and tax money is almost a foreign word in the public sector. For me, as a former manager in the private sector, it is unimaginable how carelessly there is handled with huge funds, tax resources. It is to be feared that this will not change in the next few days. It was mentioned by the government today, she's always on the gas. I fear that this vehicle will drive against the wall if it continues. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19168	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19219	Mr Jury has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19241	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I am here for the first time today at the speaker's desk in the Austrian Parliament and have to say: I'm a little disappointed! I am disappointed by this statement of Government, which says: Refugee camps South, no debate contributions. I have heard the only contribution to Turkey's sluggish accession to the EU or gradual accession to the EU by Mr Korun, her sign of Turkish migrants here in Austria. For me, this is embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen of the government, but also those of the opposition. Mr Strache, you, who are always a protector of the Austrian women, do not even speak! - No, Mr. Strache, I'm not in the wrong movie! [[Abg. Strache: You've always been for Turkey's accession, you've forced that! We called the BZÖ to order! You're in the wrong movie!]] For me, it's defying: You are always talking about too much immigration and the burden on the local population, but you yourself are not expressing yourself on this problem in this House! I would also like to say something to Mrs Korun. Mrs. Korun, who's talking to a split tongue here? Is it you who say that there is too little going on in Austria for integration, or is it the Turkish Prime Minister, who said a year ago in Cologne, in Germany, that integration is a “attack to human rights”? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] As a German-speaking Austrian, I would like to have an answer to this! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would also like to say to the Government Programme and to the Government Declaration: Of course, Mr Faymann says that there should be no immigration against the will of the indigenous people. [[Abg. Haberzettl: Federal Chancellor!]] But the same line says that humanitarian residence rights should be introduced in an extended form. – This is creeping immigration through the back door! [[Abg. May. Korun: You don't believe that!]] Ms. Interior Minister – she is no longer sitting there now, probably already in the south looking for an inn for a new refugee camp – will not do so! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We Kärntner, Steirer and Burgendländer will defend us against this immigration, which neither works in Vienna nor elsewhere, with which the Austrian population is overwhelmed! I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19343	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19391	Mr Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the European I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19412	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few calmer words and make a few comments on cultural policy. I think it is historically for the first time that the word culture does not even occur in the declaration of government. The word “culture ” does not appear on 24 pages. It also does not occur orally, nor does it come from the vice chancellor. It is also no wonder that the government programme on culture, which was published days before, does not have much to do with it. It is essentially what was published two years ago. In the meantime, I believe that there is something like a standard programme that will apply to all governments of the great coalition and will never be fulfilled. That is why I did not want to do a job, and I only looked at what I said two years ago, if the government programme is the same. That's what I've got in front of me now. It is indeed true that sentence for sentence everything I said at the time could now be said again, I don't need to read it. I could again point out that the red and black government issued a White Paper in 1999, where 200 pages of point-by-point is written, which could be done and would have to be made urgent, which was then not included in the 2006 government programme and is also not included in the current government programme. Instead, the same “air pads ” come again, the same little inspired“ wallpaper texts. ” I think that now, at least in cultural policy, a time has somehow arrived for the apparatus. I could again point out that there is obviously an intention to have nothing written in. Then: If nothing is promised, then nothing needs to be kept either. What's inside? – Yes, of course, we are also in favour of this and were two years ago in favour of strengthening cultural diversity. We or Parliament decided two years ago that the UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity should be signed. In the meantime, she was already signed, so what is that supposed to be? It would have to stand in concrete terms, how this is implemented, but we do not know that. Also two years ago, an increase in the film budget was planned, then only the reserves were exhausted. It may be that there may actually be an increase in the film budget now, but if we need to know at the same time that the ORF wants to withdraw its support for the film industry, then we must say: This is actually a zero-sum game and does not serve us at all at the end! Yes, the text also contains the obsolete passage that will become Linz's Capital of Culture next year, 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, this is embarrassing! In December 2008 the government programme states that Linz is to be the capital of culture in January 2009! Obviously, you just forgot to delete this sentence. So no one has thought about it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] I would perhaps change a sentence, namely my final sentence, which I said two years ago. This is because I have regretted the Minister because she had to defend a government programme which she did not negotiate herself during the budgetary negotiations. It was only later that she became a minister and got something that she had to negotiate on budget, and that's an unpleasant story. She herself said in her statement that this would not be so easy and that she would have done it differently. But now she's negotiating, and it's exactly the same thing inside. Yes, what does “negotiated ” mean? She made copy-and-paste! I can only say: Nothing has happened in the last two years. This can be seen from the same programme. Nothing will happen now, and nothing will happen in the next five years. But talking about cultural nation, we like that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19473	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19494	Mr President. Estimated colleague on the government bank! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! I would like to talk briefly about research and innovation as well as about this chapter and to take an up-to-date article, which will be in the newspapers tomorrow, on the occasion of getting in here. [[The speaker holds up a copy of the “Kurier”.]] “The crash of the US car builders” is written here. Considering the American automotive industry over the last decades, this was a very low-research field in the USA; the automotive industry was a major problem in the USA as a whole: old technologies, hardly skilled workers in the factories. It was therefore not possible to advance innovation in this area. The European automobile manufacturer Opel, a subsidiary of the US-American automotive company General Motors, made a major attempt with electric vehicles seven years ago, and around 1,000 vehicles were leased to leasing companies. tet. They were very satisfied with these vehicles. These were then withdrawn and scrapped seven years ago, the leasing contracts were dissolved because the Group did not want this technology. Now General Motors is in the situation that the stock is zero and the Group's debt is $351 billion. Mr Grazauer, this is much more so than the Republic of Austria has made – and has not made debt – investments. That is why, I mean, a window in the automotive and in the field of production science is at present. Measures must also be taken in the area of qualification, in the training of employees. I think it is also illustrated in the government programme that the Austrian Federal Government is actively working to open up the European leader in the field of research and innovation. Fields that I have already mentioned, but also the energy industry, the development of third generation fuels, photovoltaics and the like, are very important fields of research, which in the coming years may be able to restore innovation and employment throughout the world if we achieve success in this segment. In this sense, I believe, there is the opportunity for our research companies and our universities to work successfully in the next few years and to use this window for new technologies. I am very optimistic and think that the members of the government responsible will do everything we can to ensure that we are successful in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19545	Mrs Mag. Hakl. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19567	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! This Federal Government will take office at a very difficult time. We need to look at the situation that we now have in Europe and around the world, perhaps also from the perspective of a young person who has good education, is full of action, perhaps wants to make himself independent or to move forward in a company, and is now faced with the fact that all larger companies are cautiously not recruiting or possibly having to reduce the financial market in a very, very difficult situation, that our banks currently employ few young people. I think the challenge we face is to ensure that exactly these young people in Austria find the opportunity to start new creative, innovative and with Elan. This is very important if we look at innovation and research. To this end, there is a framework that we now have to make available from policy: If a person wants to start something new with us, he needs start-up capital. With the economic packages via the AWS credit lines, we have provided support to innovative technology-oriented companies, in particular, in order to obtain favourable credit. But what does the situation really look like today? – A case of practice that I have heard today: An entrepreneur from Vienna owns non-loaded properties worth €150 million. His son wants to start a new company and falls under these credit lines. He would get these promotions, but Despite the security – 80 percent are secured by the AWS – the bank does not give it the remaining 20 percent! I mean, this has to shake all of us into the market, and there's a problem. We must therefore enter into an intensive dialogue with our banks, which have not only been neglected since this crisis, but since then even more of their actual business, namely lending money and keeping savings, compared to the greater profits that could be made in other ways. – This is now the most urgent and the greatest purpose we have to have, because otherwise nothing new will arise in this country. In addition, we also need a more visionary economic and industrial policy than it has always committed to our small country in the past. It's good, it's nice, it's right and important that we have very successful small and medium-sized enterprises, but it will be decided here in this House whether we will also retain large industries such as the OMV, the mobilkom and other large, sometimes formerly state-owned companies based in Austria. At any rate, I am glad that the Headquarters strategy is financed and continued. But this can only be the beginning for all of us for the next five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19621	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19642	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Shortly before the election, some parties, including FPÖ and SPÖ, have become known for the implementation of a university package. Now, a few weeks after the election, we hear a government agreement, a government programme that makes me doubt this implementation. Although the Federal Chancellor has said that science and research are the key factors for the wealth of the coming generations, I do not necessarily discover in the work itself the points that led me to believe in them. We all know the devastating effects of gravity. That is why we want to offer you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, protection and support to protect and support you from the collapse and to protect you from the consequences. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If Mr Wöginger has missed constructive proposals: Here he has her! – Now he is no longer there, right; probably he went to a hand-resistant Innviertler Jause. [[Call the FPÖ:Now he's no longer there!]] – The opposition in our area, which only meckers and does not make any proposals, is the ÖVP at our home; there he can ask the retired interlocutor of the ÖVP. However, the government in this House is still presenting SPÖ and ÖVP, and we expect these to be primarily proposals or constructive. In times of globalisation and the economic crisis, education is really our most important capital to remain competitive. We need modern and bureaucratic universities to prepare the students accordingly. A free society needs free access to free universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19710	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19780	Next item is the report by Mr Huber. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19802	Mr President. High house! Much has already been said about agriculture today. ==References== The milk quota has been abolished in Brussels on November – also with the consent of our Austrian Minister for Agriculture Pröll. This has the effect: A gradual increase in the quota will take place by 2015, and it will be deleted in 2015. This will ruin the entire equity of the milk producers at risk of existence. With the approval of all the Presidents of the Chamber of Agriculture and Mr Pröll, this capital has been destroyed. The average Austrian milk producer has 100 000 litres of milk quota. This results in a capital value of €75 000 today. This capital has been destroyed. As an alternative compensation, farmers have been offered a dairy cow premium of € 50 million. Please, you have to break that on the tongue: This results in 0.8 Eurocents per litre of milk. At the moment, the Austrian farmers lose an average of €5 500 per year due to a weak milk price. Mr. Minister! You have been asked: Put acts and do not underline headlines! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Austrian dairy farms are 87 percent in the mountainous region. We cannot see that these farms are equal to the Dutch and North German agricultural industries. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Minister, I ask you: If you immediately convert a milk package of € 40 million to compensate for the Austrian dairy farmers, release these funds! Otherwise, I really have to ask you: How many farms still have to lock? These farmers care for our green land, they deserve it! We need fair prices for the producer and must not label the farmers as a bitter! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Minister, it is also very urgent to address the injustice of VAT. The Austrian farmer receives 12 per cent but has to pay 20 per cent for all his means. This 8 percent injustice is immediately balanced by the Financial Office. Give the appropriate instructions! Make Please do not make lip confessions, but put actions – and these immediately! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Furthermore, a very important requirement is that the so-called agricultural diesel be immediately exempt from the mineral oil tax. The farmers receive a grain price this year, which is under any criticism. Please, take these steps! [[Abg. Riepl: Anything else?]] On this subject we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19897	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19972	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Since at least one of the ministers I would like to speak to is present, I will start with the sport and take advantage of the fact that there can be a dialogue here. Peter Haubner, the sports spokesman of the ÖVP, is also there. There is a different assessment. The Government Convention – well, I could now keep it as my colleague Zinggl and quote the Kalauers from the last programme. The “dayly unit of movement” has been following us, I believe, for decades. In some schools one should be happy now if there were a weekly unit of activity. So, if something had improved in this respect, it's not real. I also liked the “necessary design of sports and movement rooms” as a goal. I asked myself: What would be the opposite if one did not design it in a need-oriented way? And: Doping as an additional means. So it's not much new inside, you know who negotiated it, which interests are behind it – but it doesn't just have to be bad. And then came the interviews of Minister Darabos. I have already found this very interesting, and the debate in the House at least suggests that we will have some exciting discussions. I thought: Cute! I have also pursued certain discussions, starting from Schweitzer, for example on the topic of “Bundling of the top-ranking sport promotion”. That, I think, is a very exciting topic, where we should absolutely discuss where the priorities are. Because, completely neutrally, For the money that we take in our hands, some of the top-level sports could also be much more obvious. And I think the goal of saying that there is an evaluation here, and associations that have successful models that perform good youth work get more accordingly, is a very reasonable goal if you take top sports seriously. And I do that because top sports are simply the basis for broadband, we know that, in all areas. I used to be a tennis teacher and can remember the time when “Paris” won a pattern, 120 children in a place with 2,000 inhabitants were standing on the tennis court. It can be read from this that role modeling also leads to sporty activity in broadband and makes sense. So you'll find a partner in us when you try this courageously. Finding it in your own parties may be more difficult. With regard to the whole issue of division between associations, there are also resistances – not only from the associations, but of course also from the BSO. Casting, for example. So casting is not what you could believe, but that's this famous sport, where you stand on the meadow and fly, i.e. targeting with the fishing. And there is also a broad support for this. I think you called it darts. You can also discuss this when watching darts on TV. So with less than 120 kilograms, there is rarely anyone in the top class. So that's not exactly the classic sport story. They apparently have a calm hand when they are placed accordingly. In which case: Darts is already an interesting thing, also for the purpose of concentration. Well, I think you can talk about it. Second point: Doping. And this is already an exciting discussion, because there is also strong resistance from Peter Haubner and, I think, also from Peter Wittmann; the two Peters, I just noticed. This is already a discussion that needs to be held differently after the Kohl case. That's right, there was always the consensus – which I also contributed: When a sportsman is baptized and locked, he is punished to a high degree. After the Kohl case, I thought: Well, that's how our doctrine is no longer true, because what happens when you consider it neutral? Everyone who pursues this knows: When cycling is called doping, you no longer get into business; if you notice this, you can't afford a top sports team to resume a locked doping probe in cycling because the whole sponsorship coincides. So that's not possible anymore. What motivation would Mr Kohl have to open his backmen?- Oh, my God! He's not going to be locked for two years, but he doesn't care if he gets a contract after a year, or if he doesn't get a contract after two years, he doesn't care. On the proposal: Let's raise the lock to five years! – I think this is counterproductive, because if you know that there is no further career at all, why do you want someone to unwind at all? As you have referred to it, it is absolutely right: We have to consider – also against the resistance of Mr Westenthaler, who has massively “bleached” with calls of call – how, if we want to fight doping, we can get people to talk out. That's the point. I still think the idea is absurd, that someone who has been baptized and has been transferred will come to the prison; that is not necessarily the point. The question, are there effective possibilities... – Yes, and what is the answer? – The coal says: [[Call to the BZÖ: That was the proposal from the Minister of Sports!]] This one! – and everyone says: Well, that's it! There's no handiwork in de facto. [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] If we take it seriously with the fight against doping, then we probably need a possibility – and be it with the method of commitment to a truthful statement – to come to the backmen as well. [[Abg. Grosz: The sexual offender should be released, and the doping offender should be imprisoned!]] I know BZÖ has always made huge problems there, and I've been wondering why. Several articles on the question of who has been running in which seasons in the last few days were already quite interesting, and it is also interesting to see which contacts had former sports politicians. I'm just reminding you: Karl Schweitzer, Stefan Matschinger – common season run and so on. You can think about where this comes from. I think that if we take doping seriously, we must also consider how we can make it happen that people who have nothing to lose say. – 37-year-old cross-country skiers who were blocked at Olympia can also be blocked for ten years, they won't care. So you'll have to think about it: How is there about the associations, how is there about the structure there the possibility of moving people to actually express themselves in these cases? There is no such thing as that in Austria so far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So we still have an exciting discussion in front of us, also to compare international models. The Italians didn't fall to the head either, they have other models, and I don't think the picture drawn in this context that athletes sit in a mass in the hands is useful. But you have to observe: If you have to recognise in all international reports that there are a few countries that are, so to speak, doping discs, and there Austria is always the case, then we have a massive problem for sports policy in our country. That is why we should intervene relatively rigorously. – So much about sports. As far as media is concerned, I must say that I do not have a direct contact now, but at least I would like to say so much to the ORF: The Government Convention is also non-binding, as it is in many other areas – and something does not stand in it, but there was a very interesting debate about it: Is the ORF entitled to a fee for exemption? Of course, one can discuss this whole debate in such a way that one says that they also have to do their homework there, that they have structures that are unbearable, that someone changes from the employee relationship to the Executive Board just before retirement, and that they are fully cashed – all this can be discussed. However, if there is an objective that there is a tax exemption for socially in need, then this is a political responsibility – and not something the ORF has to bear. At least in this part, there has been something since black and blue, which additionally burdens the ORF financially, namely: Fee exemptions yes, but the ORF is supposed to carry it itself! These questions need to be clarified; there is a need for remuneration. You have to talk about the rest of it in every form, because it will not be possible for the ORF to continue in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20068	The next item is Mrs Binder-Maier's speech. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20089	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The desire to live and be removed from a family or association of familiar people have very, very many people; I claim most of the people. But as so often, desire and reality are not always one, above all the term “family” has a great scope for interpretation. Living conditions, living conditions, but also living realities show that family can be very diverse, sometimes very colorful and very unconventional. My personal definition of family is the responsible, partnership and equal living together of people – and I welcome: with or without children. And I believe that quality is also a priority – and not the outer form. Many forms of living together must be respected, recognized and supported above all. In order for family to be able to live, I need, as I do, many support, many framework conditions. In the light of the government programme, we are discovering family-related improvements and projects that are important and necessary in many policy areas, but I would like to raise your awareness of some specific measures that include specific family policy issues, because a modern family policy, as it is included in the government programme, means opportunities: Opportunities for the children and opportunities for the parents. The primary objective of our government programme is to improve the compatibility of work and family, as well as the creation of additional framework conditions, such as the income-dependent childcare allowance, the compulsory free kindergarten year, the father's participation, the father's month. Also, would you like to quote In this context, I would like to see the tax reform which will bring financial improvements to families. I am speaking now of €500 million, but it should also be borne in mind that the family allowance is only available on 24 March. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen, the first positions are on the table; in part they are very different. I think it takes common effort to support the families in Austria. Mrs Haubner said that the words must also follow suit. I can promise you, Mrs Steibl, that we, together with Mrs. State Secretary Marek, will follow these words, and above all we will also do nails with heads.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20135	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20156	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that I am opposed to the repeated acquisition of the Burgenland by some BZÖ-Redners: The politics in the Burgenland is already determined by us! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Kärntner Landespolitik is something to stay in Carinthia. We represent our own interests – and, of course, our policies as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Now on my real topic. General: In fact, we have a main issue, which is the financial and economic crisis which has been discussed and discussed in the last few weeks and months. Of course, there is now a tougher distribution struggle, and on the other hand, it is also a question of rejecting correct and necessary measures. I believe that the word solidarity is very important in this context. And we have to avoid a group coming to the handcushion, so to speak. However, this crisis is also about bringing about solidarity in the world, because especially for weak states and for weak societies, this crisis is even more threatening than for us; these countries feel that it is the first and the hardest. And they also have to fight that they can probably count on us at this stage of economic development with less support than before. And the consequence is already seen, also in the statistics, that the migration pressure is increasing accordingly. I am therefore glad that the chapter on foreign policy expressly states that the international commitments we have entered into are also to be respected – the 0.51 percent of GDP by 2010, the 0.7 percent by 2015 – although it has also been noted that it will be difficult to comply with them. I believe, however, that we should all really feel obliged to continue the fight against poverty, hunger and disease, where it is most necessary, and not let the economic crisis have too much influence. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Prince.]] I would also like to mention, in this context, that I believe that the definition in the financial chapter, that we are going to work towards the introduction of a speculation tax and for the introduction of a financial transaction tax across Europe, is an important one - we have also decided here in Parliament - important for two reasons: on the one hand, because we simply need these rules for a functioning financial market, on the other hand, because we are doing so. It could also provide funding for development cooperation and funding for EU own-funding, as we have all parties jointly decided here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by extending my warmest thanks to our divorced Foreign Minister Dr. Plassnik, who has well represented Austria in Europe and the world. Mrs Plassnik has negotiated the chapter on External Affairs and Europe. In the field of development cooperation, it has represented women's rights accordingly. I would like to thank her very much. I think we found a worthy successor with Michael Spindelegger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20228	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Höbart. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20256	Mr President. Representatives on the government bank! High house! I would have liked to have devoted myself very much to more substantial issues here today. However: After I came up as a youth speaker of my party, how substantial that is, which was announced here in the so-called government program on youth, I have to find more clear words today. [[Abg. Steibl: But you can't be a youth speaker! - That surprises me!]] - Just listen! Maybe you can take some. For example, the Federal Chancellor spoke about ensuring a so-called training guarantee for young people. – How to say so beautifully: I hear your words well, alone, I lack faith! – I ask myself quite specifically: How is all this going to work? For example, with the so-called measure to reduce the electoral age of young people in works council elections? – It really can't be. I have to say quite frankly, because the chickens laugh that this should work with such a measure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As I mentioned earlier: Finally, it is air bubbles, no more and no less. Further example: An increased protection of violence for young people is announced. – That’s where I put the question: What does it mean to announce something, to announce stronger measures? – Nothing specific, everything just Blabla. I have also tried unsuccessfully to identify concrete measures in the so-called youth policy measures in this government programme. For example, youth representation is announced as a social partners' component. – I would consider that to be a most dangerous threat, because I assume that no youth in our country has ever heard of this organization. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What?]] This is exactly the point I would like to point out. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They learn that in school!]] We should simply have the ear with the young people, and this is ultimately also a tip from us: Finally, listen to young people! Have the ear with the young people! We did it in our election movement, we were with the young people. And if we remember that now a real state of emergency has broken out in this Republic, because the Freedom Party has landed with the young voters at more than 40 percent, then all of the other parties should ask themselves the question why that was so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have addressed problems, we have offered solutions. We gave the young people a stop. That was finally the reason why we were able to break into this constituency. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] A short while ago, the Greens spokesperson, who unfortunately is no longer present. I say quite clearly here: The right to home is also a fundamental right for the Austrian population. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There's only one planet, colleague! A planet for all of us – no more and no less! Our home is the planet!]] Personally, I would like you to finally make proposals on how to deal with this fundamental right for the Austrian population. That is, I think, a lot, a lot more essential for the future. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Also a small comment to the colleague jury: I would just like to remind you what well-known contributor of the future alliance Austria has actually stood for Turkey's accession to the European Union. Think about it! I think you know who I mean. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to make the following request, which fits very well on the subject of economic crisis: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20377	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20439	The next item is the speech by Mr Markowitz. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20460	Mr President. Dear members of the government! High house! As a young Member of Parliament, there is quite a lot to be expected of the government package. And then you'll find a sentence that says: The government calls for a youth impact assessment. – This is the administrative displeasure that official theorists have devised in order to reach out to helpless politicians of SPÖ and ÖVP spiritual crutches. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the other hand, we call for a youth integration officer. This should be a person with migrant backgrounds who is assigned to care for young people successfully in everyday life. He should be a contact person, a conflict solver, a motivator as well as a supporter for language promotions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We know that the about four to six hours in which young people speak German in school are too few. As soon as they get home, they speak again in their mother tongue. But young people should be free of charge, in music clubs, Sports clubs also get to know the language they use. This is the only way to achieve and complete successful integration. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want to give migrants second and third degrees our language as a weapon for their future life course in Austria, because if they are not powerful in German, they will be significantly disadvantaged both in the working world and in private life, for example when signing a work contract or as dissatisfied customers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We all know what this is like when skilled workers do a great job, but they don't do it properly because they don't understand the language. This does not mean anything to the employer and to the employee. These are the causes of long-term job loss. The justification of our demand is that these people have chosen Austria as their own food point. Finally, I would like to make the following request, which concerns ten demands for Carinthia: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20547	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20631	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Johann Maier. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20655	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter. In contrast to the opinion of members of the opposition, I agree that we have succeeded in doing so. to make very specific provisions. I would like to thank the ÖVP's negotiating partners very much because we have succeeded for the first time in setting accents on consumer protection and consumer health. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, there will be an action plan on consumer protection based on an international model, it will be regulated for the first time in the law that there is an annual report on the situation of consumers, ladies and gentlemen from FPÖ. You too have demanded this, only: Now it is in the government programme, and we will realize it together! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am particularly grateful to colleagues from the ÖVP that we have succeeded in setting new priorities in the field of food safety. There will be new approaches on the issue of the control of the food chain – also a concern of the BZÖ, colleague Grosz. There will be a seal of quality - demanded by the FPÖ, demanded by the Greens and demanded by the Social Democrats - a very concrete definition. – They don’t come from: The government programme is concrete in many areas and offers a lot for the interests of consumers. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection as a cross-sectional matter can be found in all areas. He finds himself in the field of internal security, justice, and as a Parliament we will have to work together on the fight against Internet crime, both with the Minister for the Interior and with the Minister for Justice. We will have to work with Mr Vice-Chancellor on investor protection, because we need to clarify the issues here, namely which protection measures need to be taken in concrete terms. There are many concerns that we can solve together, and we should also resolve them together. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I can invite you, together with us, to decide these objectives for Austrian consumers here in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20703	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20725	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! After listening to the debate and the statements of you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition today, I ask myself, if you prove so little courage to go to a coalition, to go to a government, why are you so brave today to speak so badly of this government programme, where you do not yet know how the work with the government programme will then work out. We have made many promises in this government programme, such as a subject that is particularly important to me, namely that there are no new taxes. In contrast to what our former and current coalition partners called for, namely the growth tax, one now had to recognise at SPÖ that, of course, in times of financial and economic crisis, it would be counterproductive at all if we were to introduce a wealth growth tax, in which we would have to take any fiscal measures with the losses. – It is therefore quite clear that this is not coming and that there are no new taxes, just as we have demanded and always said. But what we do with 1. January 2009 – unfortunately God’s retroactive, because of course a decision will no longer take place before, but it is also retroactive – this is a tax reform, a collective reform. And this concept in the government programme also bears the signature of the ÖVP, namely that the discharge does not stop at a gross income of €4,000 per month, but that the discharge continues to go from €400 to €1 350 and that those who have over €60 000 per year will also be taxed at €1 350. Our demand for family taxation has also been made true, which has been repeatedly called for by the ÖAAB in a form that has had this objective before which we now stand, namely that there is a free amount, so that we can relieve the people who really pay most of the taxes in the tax pot. And that is the essential thing, because the number of those who do not pay taxes has now increased from 2.55 million to 2.7 million, because we have also caused a discharge in the lower incomes. Other essential demands, which have been raised for years by the ÖAAB and, of course, by other parts of the ÖVP, by the women: the deductibility of child care costs – quite, very important – also for single parents, of course, as well as the increase of the amount of child drop-off – also an important thing. But of course that doesn't mean we're gonna stop here today and say that's all, that's all we need. Of course, we must continue to talk about this and also implement structural reforms, simplifying the tax system. Of course, we need to consider how we bring different types of profits into a fair tax calculation. And, of course, we also need to think about the situation of the commuters. Unfortunately, Mr Rossmann of the Greens is no longer here in the House, who has always criticized the present situation and has said that, as it is now regulated, it is only a promotion of the settlement policy. That's what we need to think about. I'd like to invite you to discuss it with us, and I hope you won't do it again afterwards. Then: Whoever has no courage for the government does not need to criticize the government to this extent either, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20761	The next item is the speech by Mr Vock. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20783	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr Cap, who is unfortunately not present, said that since the government had too few ideas, he asked the opposition to submit applications. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We have now also looked at the whole programme, and in the field of the Building Committee I see relatively few ideas of the Federal Government. Of course, it is said that the BIG should prefer buildings, only: If you know the low-cost bidder principle, you know that these buildings are likely to be carried out by any EU group; the purchasing power in Austria will probably hardly be improved. Then there is a so-called thermal rehabilitation offensive. However, it must be borne by the homeowner, the homeowner, and not by the Federal Government. I also miss in the area of animal welfare that animal welfare should come into the Constitution. This is something about which there is an all-party consensus, but the government has not written it into the programme. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nor do I find the improvement of animal welfare through increased and improved controls, such as EU animal transport, in this government programme unfortunately. And the animal protection scene is currently uncertain by a difficult-to-understand interpretation of § 278a StGB. It is true that the judicial system is in a certain way acting on its own initiative. There are comprehensible laws. If criminal acts are committed, then one should judge them according to the respective paragraphs, but one should not apply a paragraph in a law to eliminate political dissidents. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] Let's be grateful if it's still There are associations involved in animal welfare – our government obviously does not.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20868	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20974	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20997	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government Convention on Art and Culture is ambitious and contains a clear commitment by the Federal Government to a dedicated cultural policy. Unlike Mr Zinggl, I see four key areas for cultural policy in the coming years, which are also properly chosen from my point of view: the preservation and expansion of the cultural diversity and an open cultural climate mentioned by you; the special promotion of contemporary art; special attention to issues of cultural participation in order to allow as many people as possible to participate in the knowledge and information society of the 21st century. ==References====External links== And I am particularly pleased that the Government Convention contains a clear commitment to adequate public cultural funding and to ensuring cultural infrastructure, because it is an important investment in the future of our country. [[Abg. May. Darmann: What about folk culture?]] It is an important signal that is not saved in times of the general global crisis. International examples, examples in other countries show that unfortunately it can also be quite different. Ladies and gentlemen! 20 million € increase for the cultural budget are really a nice success that can be built on – of course, it can always be for the culture. In addition, a large part of the planned investment is expected to be part of the economic package. Where, then, are the priorities to be set? What measures are priority? – In connection with the further development of the museum landscape, which was already launched in the last legislative period, I am particularly concerned about the rapid introduction of free entry for children and young people up to the age of 19 into all federal museums. Film promotion should be significantly increased and the importance of audiovisual media further expanded. I also find it positive and very important to strengthen the programme's promotion. The central element of cultural policy is and remains the promotion of contemporary culture, as well as the promotion of young people and the internationalisation to which a special emphasis is to be placed. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Is there a promotion of folk culture?]] Many Members have participated in the large parliamentary music survey we have organised here during the last legislative period. I was very impressed by the example of the Popakademie Mannheim. All the more so, I am pleased that a feasibility study in the current government agreement has been envisaged for an attractive training offer in the field of pop music and music business. What we will continue to deal with and have to deal with is the social situation of artists. In the last legislative period, a study has been commissioned, which we will certainly be discussing in the Committee on Culture. I hope that the announced interministerial working group will deal with this issue very quickly. To conclude: I also find the increase in the budget of foreign culture very beautiful and very important. I think it's a wealth of challenges that the government will face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21064	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21085	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My contribution to today's debate is, of course, tourism, because I myself come from the tourism industry. About 90,000 businesses in Austria with 170,000 employees generate about 16 percent of the gross domestic product. Tourism, however, is also an export product that is widely underestimated. If the Austrian National Bank has calculated the current account surplus for 2007 by €8.6 billion, it must be known that only 68 billion of surplus has been generated by tourism, in order to see the importance of tourism in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Super!]] Tourism and its businesses are basically also a site guarantee. The 90 000 companies with 170 000 to 180 000 employees cannot do it, as for example Nokia, and emigrate with their businesses, but all the promotions that tourism receives remain with us in the country. The importance of tourism is very high in the population. 71 percent of the population say that tourism is important and that Austria's economy is highly dependent on tourism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the west, it's even 89 percent. Mr Linder said today that there is nothing in the government agreement on tourism. – He may not have read this exactly. In the last government statement about two years ago tourism was half a side dedicated to it, today there are three sides. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Greater font! Line spacing!]] It's not about length, it's important what's inside, and there's facts and numbers inside. As Mr Linder said that there were no figures, I would simply like to read to him: “Dubling the liability framework of the ÖHT – Österreichische Hotel- und Tourismusbank from EUR 250 to EUR 500 million as well as increasing the top tourism promotion for the next two years by 20 %” – that is, if I calculate this, about €5 million each. A great deal is also being done for the operational structure: strengthening capital formation, degressive AF and simplifying the transfer of assets. What's an old saying? - He who does not advertise dies! – Tourism is a success story in Austria, and tourism should remain a success story and be in the future. The coalition partners, as well as we, are quite clearly committed to taking more money into their hands in cooperation with the countries at this difficult time in order to promote tourism in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21139	The next item is the report by Mr Kunasek. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21161	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! As an apprentice speaker of my group, I have of course closely followed the discussion and debate today and unfortunately I have to note that the area of apprentices and apprentice policy has been very little to no avail here. I remember only Mr Krainer, who meant that the youth should be happy that she is in Austria, because here everything is so beautiful and good. – Mr Krainer, please tell the 15 000 job seekers who do not find teaching places in Austria that are looking for them. I think they're gonna see this a little different. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The government programme in this area: It was worth exactly one page, a page full of headlines. I also think that explains why the young people – the FPÖ has 44 percent of the first and young voters – will seek and find an alternative in us. The interests of the apprentices are in all cases not represented by SPÖ and ÖVP! A second area which I would also like to address, because it is a major concern to me because of my profession, is the area of national defence. [[Call to the ÖVP: What is your profession?]] As a professional soldier and personnel representative in the Austrian Federal Army, I have to take a day-to-day view of how dramatic it is partly about the financial situation of the German army. Saving the last few years, yes, I trust to say decades, is clearly legible and recognizable in terms of training, equipment, transport capacity, infrastructure. Mr President, you have talked a lot about courage today, about courageous programmes, courageous steps contained in this government agreement. However, they themselves did not have the courage to address an essential part, namely the BH 2010 reform, which is now to be a transformation. I also believe that I know the reason for this: that the financial resources are not available to drive forward and ultimately implement them. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In all cases, the German army has done its homework – in contrast to politics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is a lack of financial resources in many areas. We as responsible politicians in this House must be very concerned about this area, as I mean. For us, freedom was and is an important issue for security policy and defence policy. I can assure you - I know my group will agree to this - that we will not get tired of standing up for secure Austria and a functioning federal army in the future, and also for the thousands of soldiers in service at home or abroad. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen, please support this request. Let us set a sign that the German army and a secure Austria are also a concern in this house!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21246	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21304	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21325	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We have given climate protection a very broad space in this government programme. Climate action is addressed not only in the environmental chapter, but also in many other chapters. We understand, because this has also been criticised, climate change and measures in this regard are not at all a burden, but as an opportunity that we can afford. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I hope so, colleague Bayr!]] On the one hand, jobs can be generated, on the other hand, this is a question of more sustainable life, more valuable life and, of course, also offers the possibility of added value in the country. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That would be nice!]] This is also the reason for our very clear commitment in this programme to the fact that we do not want to focus on buying certificates abroad in the future, but on really taking action in the country. Accordingly, we already have a lot of money in this programme, but also in the budgets for the next few years. On the one hand, I think it is very important that we almost double the measures, the entire rail of environmental promotion in the country. This is a question of putting in place very efficient measures, particularly in the field of climate change, both in the field of business and in the community. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's important!]] These are measures that are very job-intensive, which are measures where the cost of saving a tonne of CO2 is expected to be slightly higher than €7, which is relatively favourable compared to other measures. We will almost double the funds for this. A second rail, for which there will also be a lot more money, is the whole question of thermal renovation both in the area of businesses and in the area of residential buildings, for which we provide €100 million. A third area is one that has already proved itself: We will continue to finance a tighter, narrower, even more efficient climate and energy funds at €150 million a year. In addition, further measures are planned, such as a Federal Climate Protection Act, where it will be necessary for countries and different ministries to work synergetically, jointly, more coordinatedly on this issue, with clear paths, how we want to reduce and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions far beyond 2020, because this is, of course, not only a national, but also an international task. This week and next week, the climate conference will take place in Poznan in Poland, which will set the course for a post-Kyoto regime, which will then be decided in Copenhagen next year. I would therefore like to point out that, apart from reducing emissions, two very important issues will be priority: First: How will it work in developing countries to finance adaptation measures to the already noticeable global warming? And second: How will we be able to provide funding for technology transfer? – These are challenges that go far beyond the development co-operation funds. I am sure that we will also comply with our international commitments on this issue of official development policy. I am also very pleased that this government programme contains a clear commitment to a foreign exchange transaction, to a speculation tax, which will help us not only to get enough momentum to increase funds in economically difficult times in Austria, but also to have at European level enough resources for future international challenges. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21388	Mr Maij-Weggen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21410	Mr President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is interesting to see the interplay between government and opposition here in the House as a new Member of Parliament, above all it is very interesting what concerns the opposition parties not only about the state of this federal government, but above all about the content that I still understand. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right! That's right!]] But of course we cannot share the pessimism you have, only because pessimists can never be successful. For this reason, as the Austrian People's Party, we have also brought a lot, as I believe, into this government programme. We are also staffed in such a way that, from our point of view, we can go at least happy courage over the next five years. I should like to make a few comments on the social and health chapters, because, as the chairman of the Burgenische Hilfwerk, I am confronted with the care sector every day and because, above all, ladies and gentlemen, this has already been addressed today, we have to worry about demographic development, not only in dealing with the various problems in the care issue, but also, of course, in the financing of these extensive areas. If the pension chapter mentions that the sustainable protection of public pensions and the reform of the right of organisation, the right of prevention and the right of invalidity are a priority, I must say: This, of course, also affects care. Here again, in 17 points, we have quite clearly defined very good approaches, as I believe, so that we can solve this problem as well. Since today is also the day of people with disabilities, I would like to point out that this government programme also includes very specific points. Time does not allow to show these very important points. But you, ladies and gentlemen, can be assured that we parliamentarians of the government parties will do everything we can to ensure that this comprehensive and very ambitious programme, which we have undertaken, is actually implemented, because it will ensure that Austria will continue to go a good way in the future. If you also cooperate as an opposition and not only talk about everything bad here, but perhaps also say something good if they are your own proposals, then of course we would also be grateful for it, because of course the interaction must also work, for the benefit of Austria and its people. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We will make proposals!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21463	The next item is Mr Ddr. Königshofer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21487	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! “Pecunia non olet”, said the Roman Emperor Vespasian, when he introduced a so-called latrine tax in Rome. “Money doesn’t smell” should also be said today by the managers of those banks who use the so-called Bank ÖIAG to get so-called participation capital in billions of the state aid package. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group would have to suffer a bit of pain, and above all the trade unionists, because we imagine that BAWAG would have managed to cover up and hide its huge billions of losses from the Caribbean business for two or three years to the present day. Then, of course, the BAWAG would also have approached these banks-ÖIAG and would ask for amounts of one, two or three billion. It's quite clear! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Who then held the BAWAG?]] That's up to you, that's clear! But I say to the Socialist Group that it should think about it. The others demand it, you can't do it anymore. If it had happened as I said, you would have saved yourself a huge mess, above all you would have saved yourself from selling the BAWAG to the American company Cerberus. This is no longer possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I would now like to come back to this bank package and also to make a motion for a resolution. We are concerned with ensuring and ensuring the appropriate use of these funds, which the State and thus the taxpayers make available. It can't be that the banks are coming back now, using the money and continuing as before, going to the international casino or making corporate purchases. We want these funds to be invested in the Austrian real economy, in the form of loans and loans to small and medium-sized enterprises but also in industrial enterprises, if they require appropriate investment or operating resources. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Therefore, on my behalf and on behalf of other honourable Members, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this proposal in the sense of the Austrian economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21555	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21608	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21629	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Sport gives us the wonderful opportunity to touch people across all social layers. Sport, education, health are actually a unity. In the future, it means even more interconnecting and complementing each other. We can point to excellent cooperation between the umbrella and trade associations. The excellent work of our many volunteer officials and the countless excellent trainers is the valuable basis for a good sports policy in our country. In my opinion, the foundation stone must already be laid in the kindergarten for fun and fun of sports activity. There must be health Approach becomes even more natural, yes more mandatory, and then find its compelling continuation in schools. The intensive cooperation with the local sports clubs can bring a wonderful addition and enrichment for both sides. A strategically oriented master plan for sports sites is just as important as the fight against doping, the fraud of thousands of honest athletes, of zig thousands of fans, and of many sponsors and supporters. There is no longer any question of God’s questioning of the needy question. I therefore believe that our anti-doping law, which now needs to be supplemented by the current WADA code, is a very good basis for sustainable action against doping sinners and their backmen. Of course, you also need to evaluate and improve this law over and over again. It would also be very, very good to introduce a uniform and coordinated approach at European level. It would be desirable. We need, I think, no such conditions as in Italy, where the command of robbery comes with the prosecutor, the athletes are being criminalised by the media and then, for years, as is the case now, no indictment is filed. I would welcome it, ladies and gentlemen, if the media could see these transfused doping sinners, as you can see in the daily newspaper – you only need to look at your tables – not still adore them and receive them as honorary guests at Charity events. [[The speaker shows a newspaper section]] I think that is the wrong sign for these ladies and gentlemen who have so betrayed the sport. Strengthening the promotion of the sport of disabled people, using sport as an integration factor and promoting special girls' and women's sports projects are major tasks, which are enshrined in the government programme and whose implementation we will work intensively together, an exciting challenge to all the parties represented in Parliament, as I mean. I am already looking forward to the good cooperation as before.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21686	Mr Mayerhofer came next. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21708	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! As still practicing police in part-time, I can comment on security in a few sentences. First of all, a few comments on the 2006 declaration of government. To refresh: It's in the first sentence: "It is a central task of the state to protect the freedom and security of its citizens. Freedom is certainly not imaginable. The Austrians have a right to be protected against crime.” All three sentences are correct, you can sign at any time. The fact is, however, that in the last two years there has been little to do with this. The citizen can only look back on this declaration of government with grief and is disappointed, I may report to you. It can also be rightly assumed that the 2008 Declaration of Government, which we are discussing today and which we are discussing, only includes announcements. I'll get to the bottom of it. Criminal statistics. – Lip confessions mate with freezed crime statistics. It is not the counting method that will finally be revised, but the statistics will be combated. Then it is announced that 1 000 training places will be provided for the next five years. In fact, all interpretations are possible, because when a training site is provided, it does not mean that he is actually occupied and thus someone is trained. That's the problem! The fact that from 1974 to 1980 and 1982 very many police officers and general army officials were admitted, who were then 20 to 26 years old and are now on retirement, was not mentioned at all. That's the problem! We've got an old police corps. But the ministers are unfortunately not responding to it. [[Abg. That's not true!]] Yes, I can prove that to you, my colleague. The fact that we produce only 1,000 police every two years should not be completely unknown to you either. And I'm just telling you that 800 a year go into retirement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So it won't even balance the finish. I can also address some inconsistencies here, for example with the Federal Office on the fight against corruption. An alarming development can be seen in the installation of the new Federal Office for Corruption, because this new government is likely to introduce a new ministerial draft on this issue and obviously someone has speculated that the inconsistencies in it will not occur to anyone. But don't! Mr. Chief Inspector Kößl, you can calmly tell that gentleman we both know well. The intention was to develop a non-wisdom Federal Office against corruption. In my view, however, this is only possible if you install this Federal Office similar to the Court of Auditors. A head of the Federal Office, directly under the responsibility of the Minister, is bound by the new direction. Mr. Chief Inspector, you can laugh at what you want. I think that's what's right with you, because you're from his group. This law was written on exactly one person. That's unfortunate! Yes, Mr Bundeskanzler, you have asked us, in representation of the entire Federal Government, to measure you in terms of actions. We take measures in the society of the citizens concerned. We also take measures where the police do not feel any improvements, neither human nor material. I want to say that clearly now. That's where it's very special in the arrogance. Ladies and gentlemen, staff representatives on police inspections, but also colleagues from my group will remind you strongly that your promises may at last be respected.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21756	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21778	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on housing policy. Recently, both the European Liaison Committee of the Social Housing Economy, which consists of 45 housing associations from 19 EU countries, representing at least 18 million homes, and the EU Commission, in its autumn 2008 economic programme, have found that the world economic situation in Austria is not with all the hardness because our country is less vulnerable to crisis due to the high number of socially funded rentals than those that have a high share of housing property and free-financed housing. From this basic point of view, a corresponding passus has also been recorded in the government programme in the area of housing. Given the economic problems, it is particularly important that a commitment to rapidly effective economic policies be made in housing policy. Fortunately, this is a focus on the creation of sufficiently large, funded, durable new building apartments. The second priority in the field of housing policy concerns the reduction of energy consumption in order to achieve climate objectives. My colleague, Mr Bayr, has already given an opinion on this. On the one hand, this is the thermal renovation that is to be forced, with the importance of maintaining that this area of building renovation must not go at the expense of the new building. A second area is climate protection in buildings where the Article 15a agreements are to be ratified quickly in order to be able to start in 2009 to reach the goal of the exit of 40,000 households from oil heating. I would like to address a few points that seem particularly important to me. This is, on the one hand, the intended clarification of maintenance and maintenance obligations between tenants and landlords, on the other hand, a regulation on the valorization of the rental interest to avoid all too frequent rental interest increases. Essential improvements will represent the possibility of recovery of deposits and the verification of heating costs in the non-disputed procedure. To conclude: It is important to me to stress that a commitment to non-profit housing is an important signal for the continuation of a healthy and socially compatible housing market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21826	The next item is the speech by Mr Herbert. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21847	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have already talked a lot about the government programme today. A lot of criticism has already been put into practice. Even in the field of public service, the multi-quota government programme leaves a lot of questions open. One could actually say overtly formulated: The public service construction site will continue to be prolonged! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One only needs to see how disastrous some public services are, and this condition has been known for many years. But nothing was done there. No word on this in the Government Convention. Public service shortcomings. Much too little funding has been made. Ministers have been known all over the world in recent years. As I said, there is no word about this in the government agreement. The equipment and equipment throughout the public service, but especially the federal army and the executive, almost go to the limits of the commitment. I think that the public service, in particular the executive and the federal army, has been disgracefully neglected. In the Government Convention, the executive is a little stepchild at all. If I look at the many general declarations of intent, but hardly any concrete implementation approaches, I wonder: How do we want to deal with the most blatant problem in public service and in executive terms? How do we want to deal with the staff abuse and the staff problem that will fall upon us in the coming years? It is likely that there will not be the thousand training posts mentioned there. These training plans, which are still difficult to interpret and which, in the possibility of interpretation, leave large scopes open, do not even meet the staff needs we are still open to even when the most favourable assessment is made. It is probably also known to the other political groups that we will have massive retirements in the coming years, especially from 2011, 2012 onwards, through the strong vintages, also through the massive recordings of the executive that were necessary at the time. So I think that without any future options, the executive is being driven. The “Flexipool” addressed by the Minister of the Interior, Fekter, also testifies – I say so – to personal-political diletantism. I think he's a technical nonsense and depressing for young and new police officials. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Ask the people!]] Mr President, you may not know that, but I have experienced it on my own. There was a similar model at the Vienna Police Department in the early 1980s. At that time, this problem or model was limited to six months of pool solution, but was abandoned after a few years, because it did not achieve any steering effects, because it had no acceptance, neither with the officers, nor with the officials classified, and because there was an extremely high return rate to newly added and accepted executive officials. You may not know that. I know. I've been with the police for a long time, and I can also speak with them as an active official. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: They want that! That's where you need to talk to my colleagues.]] That is why I do not see why young police officers who are motivated and who are pressing for foreign service have to stand up for a missing personnel policy in recent years. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] These are personal policies that are not suitable to meet the required safety requirements of the population. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am seeking your approval of this request, because it will also make it possible to ensure the future human resources challenges of the executive for the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21931	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21987	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Josef Auer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22011	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am still very young as a Member of this House. For about a month, I have been allowed to be a member of this House, and my heart has actually been divided. I have listened very attentively to most of the speeches today, and two-parts of my heart is because I am very happy and proud that as a member of the Social Democracy I can say a few words here, especially on the focus of Ju- Community policy. On the other hand, I have to say that I find it very bad that the opposition really makes constructiveness miss. I've been a councillor myself since 1992, and I can tell you: If I were to make such an unconstructive opposition in the council, wherever I am opposition, I would have lost the confidence of voters for a long time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So you already destroyed my hope a little bit. And why do I say the word “Hoffnung ”? – Because youth needs hope because youth needs positive models. Youth does not need hetzreden, and youth certainly does not need over-exaggerated nationalism. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If I look at the Coalition Agreement, I can really say that we can have a lot of hope. The coalition agreement – and I have written most of it in terms of youth – contains very, very many pages, on which we find a lot of positive. Colleague Strache – he is not here now – said he sees a “black hole”. I don't know what he means. Does he mean a color game? Or does he mean the concept of astronomy, the physical concept? If he means this term, then it is true, because a “black hole” is a concentration of matter. And here we have a good word, because youth policy involves a large cross-sectional matter. The Coalition Agreement only contains issues relating to youth policy, such as gaps and improvements in internships relating to labour and social security. And it has been said – I believe, by Mr Höbart – that nothing is done for the apprentices. A whole litany is in the coalition agreement as far as the apprentices are concerned! Or: Improvement in the permeability between apprenticeship training and school and higher education system, keyword “Teaching with Matura”. – There are a number of points in the Coalition Agreement that speak for young people. That is why I would like to appeal to the opposition: Jump over your shadows! If we make politics for the youth, we make politics with the future, and we make politics for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22071	Mr Kurzmann has now come to speak. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22093	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! “It’s enough!” – In these words, Mr. Vice-Chancellor A. D. Mag. Molterer concluded the cooperation between ÖVP and SPÖ in the government. That this coalition government did not have a long life, we know Austrians. It took only two years, and that “It is enough!” has led to a boomerang effect for both former major parties, but of course the ÖVP is more affected, all voters know in the meantime. The breaking of the former great coalition, which in the meantime has become a small one, will go into the history of this Second Republic as a footnote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing, ladies and gentlemen, is just as safe. “It’s enough!” the Austrian population has been saying to this red and black coalition for two years. It is enough for the people that SPÖ and the People's Party have not worked together over the past two years, but have argued, nothing for this country and that this elected coalition is continuing now, is enough for many people. It is sufficient that ten banal questions from the ÖVP were answered with ten banal answers in the “Kronen Zeitung” and that many people in that country are also satisfied with the fact that thousands of jobs are at risk at the post office and that this federal government is running a bird-strout policy. It is enough, ladies and gentlemen, that the AUA has been on the decline for years and has now passed into the crash flight, and it is also enough that this federal government is doing too little against increasing unemployment. A number of companies in Styria are in serious difficulties, and it is finally time to stop producing paper and define declarations of intent in government agreements, but you are invited to act. This is what the Austrian people expect from you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22147	Next speaker: Mr Köfer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22168	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have heard several times that this legislative period will be among the most exciting in the last 30 years. The threatening economic crisis, coupled with the imminent rise in unemployment, calls for political stability and not for any experiments. Above all, the issue of security requires this stability. Security begins with social security and social balance. Remarkably positive is the fact that the new Federal Government is giving the highest priority to the safety and financing of a strong public health system. However, immigration policy is also included in the comprehensive area of security and security policy, and it can only be welcomed if fair but critical parameters for immigration are created. It must be agreed, without reservation, if it is explicitly stated in the Government Declaration that all immigration requires a clear commitment to the Austrian Constitution and Rules of Law. However, I do not agree with the idea of an initial reception centre for asylum seekers in the south, wherever it should be located. [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] In addition to security, justice and executives, the Federal Army is of particular importance, for example, in the constant use of assistance in Burgenland and in the current emergency operations in Upper Carinthia. With the previous international operations, the Austrian Federal Army has made a significant contribution to peacekeeping in crisis regions, not only in Europe. It is also gratifying if in this declaration of government there is a clear commitment to the Austrian federal army. It remains to be hoped, however, that this commitment to budget questions, to budgetary negotiations on necessary purchases and requirements of our local barracks will find its precipitation. It must not be that the force is missing the necessary equipment or that the battalions and regiments are not up-to-date with the technology that: Devices, as in most cases, are completely obsolete, devices that are of utmost importance for use in any field. It is most gratifying that in the next few years there will also be an increase of up to 1 000 planning posts among executive officials. However, thinking, increasing the desire to win migrants for executive service is an exciting thing. But what is not allowed to happen – and I have heard that from Vienna's colleagues – is that a migrant background brings with it an automatic preference in the admission process. Especially in the executive – and I know what I am talking about – there must be the same admission criteria with the same assessment for all applicants. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The next few months are presented as very serious in view of the current economic situation, and we have no time and no place for any vanity and political action. It will require a joint effort by all the political groups in the House to meet these requirements. – I personally look forward to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22242	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz has now come to speak. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22263	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! I am dealing with the chapter Art and Culture. Since this has not even been mentioned by the Federal Chancellor and his clubman Cap has here spoken of the “culturnation” and that has added a little, and since Mrs. Muttonen of the SPÖ was also very pleased with what is in it in the government programme, I can only say: It is a miracle that under the heading “Art and Culture” the only art is that on a total of eight pages there is so little concreteness to be implemented. We would have been pleased if we had had our own ministry of art and culture, so that Austria as a cultural nation could at least carry the importance of art and culture in Austria forward here as well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But after more examination throughout the program, I assume that is why the area is located in the Ministry of Education, because there are obviously some teachers who prefer to study rather than do anything, and perhaps have too little time in school to do so. It is here permanently only ‘ caught in mind’, it ‘is sought’, it ‘is examined’ and the like is spoken. You don't talk about putting it into practice unless it's something about gender – this popular word – namely gender budgeting. It will be implemented quickly. That's the only thing I see. What else is missing in that? – I see that the Federal Museums – important, right institutions – are being promoted. On the other hand, there is no word to mention the countless museums, the small museums, which nevertheless add to the distinctive and unique cultural landscape of Austria and which are conducted with a lot of idealism and heart blood. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] They are not even spoken of, let alone a financial dosage is carried out, and so is the culture of the people. Mr. Klubobmann Cap, you are missing proposals from the opposition. I can now send you a request to listen to what I have to say with our cultural speaker Mag. I'd like to bring in some unspoiled land. [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I would like to present to my colleague Bucher an entry ticket for the Tierpark Schönbrunn so that he can make himself organic there.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22347	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22402	Mr Stauber is the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22423	Madam President. Estimated members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When you visit events these days and are outside the people, you can feel that people are really breathing now, because this new government was formed relatively quickly, that is, in a relatively short time. This is very positive for the people, ladies and gentlemen, and one also realizes that this feeling must be true when one hears how excited today are the statements of the opposition speakers who cannot find anything positive in our government programme. This feeling of the people will already be true. [[Abg. May. Darmann: The SPÖ-trimming table in St. Andrä!]] – Well, of course, you have to go there too. Gernot, you too are invited once! Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member from Carinthia, I have, of course, also considered this government programme from the point of view of Carinthia, and I believe that there is a great deal to be found in the case of Carinthia. First of all, I should like to address our large infrastructure project, the southern railway or the so-called Koralmbahn, to which our Federal Chancellor has always known himself as a Carinthian friend; also last week at the spatting ceremony, he has once again known himself. This is an absolutely positive thing for us Carinthia. Thank you, President-in-Office of the Council. This project not only ensures our sites along this route for the future, but also strengthens our tourist destinations. A concern perhaps from this point of view: There are very many completed sections and plans for this. Perhaps, in order to stimulate economic recovery in Carinthia, some projects could also be preferred here. Positive from our Carinthia The view is also that additional police should be employed. We in Carinthia would also urgently need more police. We know exactly that crime is increasing along the highway, and we in Carinthia, too, really need more police officers. There would therefore have been a request to the Minister for the Interior, who unfortunately is no longer here: In this winter, 50 police officers from Carinthia will be ordered to Tyrol. I hope we can keep them in Carinthia, which would be very helpful to us. [[Abg. Bucher: We need them for the shelter camp!]] - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is also positive for all of us that schools in our federal state should be renovated and renovated, which will especially benefit our most valuable asset, our youth. Thank you, Mrs Minister, for this proposal! Last but not least, I have to break a lance for the communities again today, my very much appreciated colleagues. The prospects for the communities for the next few years are not very positive. We are in the process of creating the budgets for the next year and the years to come. And it has to be noted that the federal income shares are unfortunately declining. It doesn't look good for the next few years. I can therefore only ask the members of the government and all of you here to take account of the concerns and problems of the communities and not to reduce the scope for the investments we have communities, because we, the municipalities, are the biggest investors in the domestic economy. Small and medium-sized enterprises mainly live on the investments of the municipality. That's why a call to all: Support the communities! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22473	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22494	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The government programme, which ÖVP and SPÖ have decided, contains very little concrete projects and plans in the chapter on education. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution concerning a federal law amending the School Organisation Act in German as a language of teaching in public schools. It is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22565	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22635	The next speaker is Mr Keck. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22656	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank. Headline in the “Kurier” evening edition: The crash of the US car builders. The three big ones need financial assistance: General Motors needs 18 billion US dollars, Ford 9 billion US dollars and Chrysler 7 billion US dollars. In addition, General Motors will terminate or discharge 56 000 employees as the first measure. This crisis in America, of course, also affects the car builders in Europe, because Opel is a daughter of General Motors, and not only Opel has problems, also VW, BMW, Mercedes – what else? –, Citroen, Peugeot: All carmakers in Europe have problems. Austria has a large supplier industry to the car manufacturers. These problems, of course, also apply to Austria. One can see this from the example of MAN Steyr, where 2 500 employees have now been sent into short-time work, because the crisis has already taken hold. As a voestalpine employee, I know that the crisis, of course, also affects us, and we will have to stop for a very long time at many plants. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no good to make any motion for a resolution that companies in crisis situations receive favourable loans if the orders are missing if there is a loss of orders of up to 40 or 50 percent. – For that the car industry has broken in, but also management can't do anything. Only high finance is the cause of this crisis. I think the Federal Government is responding correctly, because one cannot bind a cure, a general package, but one must put together a national package or even link regional packages and maybe even packages for the individual companies and see that one comes to a solution. Werner Faymann is at MAN Steyr tomorrow for example and will talk there with the staff, the staff representatives and the board of directors about what measures are necessary at MAN Steyr. I think that this government programme also includes a bundle of measures for employees, and it is necessary that something be done. Werner Faymann has already said it in the Government Declaration: The workers must not be the only “runners” of this high financial crisis. A few more points on animal welfare, because Mr Vock has made this point: I have also received many emails from animal protectionists who have asked me where the animal welfare programme is included in the government agreement. – Animal welfare is, of course, a cross-sectional matter that occurs in many areas, and we do not have very large, overwhelming issues in this government programme because we have done a lot in terms of animal welfare in the last two years. We have noveled the Federal Animal Protection Act. We have made the animal transport law, which is the most modern in Europe. However, with regard to animal transport, we have the problem of responding to animal transport coming from other EU countries, and there is a need – I said in the last legislative period – for all parties to make an effort within the EU to ensure that this Austrian animal transport law is adopted there too, so that we no longer have any problems, ladies and gentlemen. Everyone – whether blue, green, orange, black or red – is asked to act on the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, we have, of course, also put in place measures – there are measures to ensure animal health and animal welfare – and they are to be further expanded. A seal of quality for animal-friendly behaviour for food of Austrian origin will be introduced. The idea of animal welfare should be promoted. The promotion of the “Animal Protection Makes School” project will be immensely advanced, and Austria will call for the establishment of an Animal Protection Competence Centre in the EU and propose Austria as a location for it. Ladies and gentlemen! I think these are measures that are set up correctly. It has not been forgotten in this government agreement that animal welfare is not forgotten either. I think that with our Federal Minister Stöger, in whose place of animal welfare is located, we have a minister who will take on the concerns of the animal protectionists and also our concerns massively and will also implement measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22724	Mrs Kitzmüller's next speech. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22745	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I may make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, the family policy in Austria must take a serious setback with this government and, in particular, with this government programme. The EU's path – that is to say, family policy as a purely economic policy steering tool – is even being implemented in Austria through the settlement of the family unit in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. What happened to a family ministry? – Family benefits lose purchasing power year after year due to inflation. From 2002 to today, the inflation-related loss of child care money accounts for more than €800 per year. In the field of Since 1992 the amount of aid has been inflation-related, inflation-adjusted by € 390 to € 470 per year, depending on the age group. Unfortunately, in the government programme, ladies and gentlemen, there is no indication of an inflation adjustment of these benefits. Family benefits will lose at least 15 percent in value over the next five years. The EU's path has therefore been fully pursued in Austria. Family policy has undermined the government, and eleven points have even been made to the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that the workers' and employers' lobbys prevail over the families. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to agree to our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22818	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22889	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is now speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22910	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! A long plenary day tends to end. I must express my amazement at some of the opposition's contributions to the debate. In these contributions, there have been many personal attacks – yes, I want to say, interruptions. There's been a lot of flat-rate malignancies. And in his contribution, a colleague has dealt with the number of condolences – in my opinion, a “extremely important” discussion in these very moving times! Ladies and gentlemen, you see, that's the difference between the opposition and the government. We're making politics for people. People are important to us, and we need solutions in an economically tense situation. On the other hand, it is important for you to say everything bad and possibly a good sage – whatever that is – to land. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the difference! I am really glad that Chancellor Werner Faymann has said that he is a government statement, the criterion of success – listen! – politics must be human, not revenue and profit. The principle of success is the establishment of solidarity – solidarity between people, but also between the federal states, colleagues and colleagues from Carinthia! Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, today is the International Day for People with Disabilities. I believe that they are among the weakest members of our society who need our solidarity to a very high degree. I believe that the government programme meets these requirements. For example, in the field of the Employment Plan for People with Disabilities, a bundle of measures will be implemented which will certainly improve conditions for disabled people, I am convinced. For example, the optimization of labour market instruments will continue or there will be equal opportunities and sustainable access to social security schemes. The establishment of the Entrepreneur's Service will take place, and it will strengthen the disabled person's trust. All these are measures that are important for people with disabilities in the labour market. Integration of people with disabilities in the labour market is important for them because they can lead a self-determined life and ensure participation in society. But ambitious goals are also planned in the field of care and care. For example, it is established that care and care should be and must be available in accordance with uniform minimum standards throughout the federal territory. There is a wide range of services to guarantee individual care. And the care gaps are also closed – together with communities and countries. There will also be improved conditions for caring and caring relatives – a very important point, because these people really make an unimaginable valuable contribution in our society. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that the commitment to solidarity, to the state health system and to pension security – to the state pension system – is set out in the government programme. I am also glad that the doctrine “less state, more private” no longer overshadows everything. These are all very positive signals for people; I am convinced of that. These positive signals, which give people safety, we need in our moving time.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22970	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22992	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Health are still present, because you said at the outset in your statement that the opposition should also bring positive results. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23058	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23123	Mr Lausch is now speaking. Speaking time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23147	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! What do you start with? – The government from red and black complains that the opposition is so evil and goes so hard in court with it. - So I don't think so. Much has been done and much has not liked what should have fallen. What has been said is that the future Minister of Justice, Mrs. Dr. Bandion-Ortner – what did she call? – ‘Participation independent’. – So with this nonsense you can stop. Ms. Dr. Bandion-Ortner is a long-standing FCG staff representative, and there is probably no reason to speak of independence. Vice Chancellor Pröll already knew who he was getting into his team. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is worrying about me as still active judicial officers is that there has actually been no word in the field of justice on the personnel situation for us judicial officers at all. I would like to say to the “Four-week Federal Minister” for Justice – unfortunately he is not present now – that there is also an executive body in the judicial system, namely the judicial guard. That went down completely in the Government Declaration, and that is a shame. What I still want to say is that I do not understand the praises of the Greens at all to the divorced Federal Minister Berger. They talked about the experts. I can only tell you that the judicial guards, the judicial services in the judicial department – both in the courts and in the judicial department – do not cry out to the divorced Federal Minister. I would say these are the actual experts, because they have to live with this Federal Minister for 18 months. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We law enforcement officers have had to face an attack on security. We were taken away without reason by the Taser's decree. This should not be left unmentioned if there are already praises on divorcing ministers. I would like to comment briefly on the Federal Chancellor Faymann: Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann had 50 minutes of speaking time, and then he talks about lack of time and for this reason could not go closer to the judicial centre. – That’s a shame, I have to say, justice is an important area, I think. But please, everyone can make their own rhymes on it. Finally, I would like to say that in the opposition – especially in my group, the FPÖ – the diligent executives are at home. All executive officials continue to work as executive officials. This cannot be claimed by the government parties. There's more of the lazy at home, I'd mean. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] . One has to say that, because these Members are 100 percent disabled. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pendl and, I believe, Mr Plessl, you will not be able to say anything about it now because the situation is that way. Mr Pendl, even a judicial officer, has left this profession many years ago. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23220	Mrs Winter has now come to the fore. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23241	Thank you, Madam President. High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor! I propose today a request that will enable you to increase the credibility of your person by once again accepting from the SPÖ your request, which you have already agreed to in September 2008. .................................................................................................... This motion for a resolution was then adopted by SPÖ, BZÖ and the Freeman. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a question, namely whether you have read through your own government programme at all. I almost think that can't be, because otherwise you would have noticed that you have something completely different in the EU referendum than you actually promised before the election. Previously, at the time, it was so that you advertised letters in the largest Austrian daily newspaper, where it was said that together with your predecessor Dr. Gusenbauer you would absolutely want to have a mandatory referendum when Austrian interests are touched. But today, one day after your fishing visit, you seem to have forgotten this promise, because now you only want a Europe-wide referendum on the burning issue of EU reform treaty. The Austrian federal people, that is, our sovereign, the voters, you apparently no longer trust in a decision-making capacity in this regard. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They want to demise the Austrians and sacrifice democracy on the coalitionary and centralist Brussels altar. In future, French, Italian, Polish and many others may vote on domestic concerns. With this, Mr Bundeskanzler, you are not an Austrian representative for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23314	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23372	Now comes Mr Mag. Haider on the floor. 3 minutes desired speaking time. Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that your group's total rest period is only more than 4 minutes, i.e. if you were to exceed the 3 minutes or the 4 minutes, I would have to finish. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23398	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Faymann, the first speaker today, said that we should measure him in his efforts, in his efforts and in his commitment to youth, which the Federal Government and he have shown. As the last speaker of my group, I will therefore take the floor of Mr Bundeskanzler, in a chapter which only honourable Member Obernoster has mentioned today, namely tourism. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If we look at the chapter tourism in the government programme, ladies and gentlemen, we read in the first three chapters that we can be glad that tourism and the leisure industry in Austria share 16 percent of the gross domestic product. The goal is to ensure the encouraging upward trend and to continue the success story in our country's tourism. The Wifo's 2015 tourism strategy will be postulated as a guideline – and it depends on it. I do not know right now, Mr. Bundeskanzler, who has been your “Ghostreader”, almost your “spirit reader” of this Wifo tourism strategy. If he told you he'd read the whole strategy, he'd put a bear on you. If I look at your tourism programme, I can count quite precisely, up to which page this “host reader” has read. This strategy has 116 pages; from page 61 it is only going on properly, only until then your reader has not come at all. Because we learn that the global growth rate in tourism will be 5.5 percent per year by 2015, but the growth rate in Austria is only 0.9 percent. If we're lucky if we do it well and if we do it properly and follow the Wifo's recommendations, then maybe it'll be 2.3 percent. If the global rate is growing faster than the Austrian rate, then there is a name for this, then the loss of growth is called, then it is a fall in our market share. And that's how it looks right now. Why this is so, the study also says in it, because we focus on our old markets, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Italy, and not on growing markets. If you continue reading, the study also announces what measures should be taken. These are not in the government's programme, that's why I'm telling you. Not only should we keep our markets up to now – of course – but we should also open up new markets. And I'm not telling you what new markets we're going to open up according to Wifo's study. Please read the study yourself and read out the order to the Austrian advertising immediately! Mr Bundeskanzler, you said: Measure us by our project. – Now we come to the assessment: Efforts are inadequate, efforts are diletantic, commitment to youth is completely lacking. [[Abg. Riepl: Reasonable speech!]] This results in total note 5. Not enough! Sit down!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23448	Now comes Mr Mag. Darmann speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23469	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Kunasek, the spokesperson of the FPÖ, said that today very little about the apprentices in relation to the The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative The fact is that I now have to take advantage of the opportunity if the Minister of Education is already sitting behind me, because in the last legislative period, I had the honour of representing the education speaker of the BZÖ, Uschi Haubner, in the teaching committee, and we discussed the subject of teaching with Matura. Mrs Bundesminister, you will remember: At that time you found very praiseable words about the model country Carinthia in connection with the “Teaching with Matura”. However, from our side at the time, we have put two criticisms on the project “Teacher with Matura” in the federal government: on the one hand, there are no funding measures at all for those companies who trust to deal with apprentices who are seeking a matura course; on the other hand, there is a financial cover for this funding by the federal government; on the other hand, in Carinthia, the “Teacher with Matura” is absolutely free of charge. Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied, I would like to ask you for another speech to clarify how the so-called improvements can be understood in the government programme on “Teaching with Matura”. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23514	Mr Grosz has now come to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23535	High house! Dear Members of the Federal Government, who obviously returned from the dusk's sleep in the pendulum clock and are now at your workplace at the end of a long day! [[Abg. Riepl: That wasn't funny!]] It is a very important issue, namely what the Federal Government wants to do with Styria and with Carinthia. We have today tabled a motion for a resolution concerning the first place of reception in the south. There are massive protests in Styria, in Carinthia, cross-party, by SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, BZÖ against this project. That is why we will be submitting today a request for a roll-call vote on this motion for a resolution. I'm appealing to Your conscience: Do not give character, propriety and heart to your home state of Styria and Carinthia on the pack or on the change, but agree to our request, in which we clearly represent the interests of our federal states against such a first reception point south in Styria or in Carinthia! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We don't need such a thing, but we need a coral tunnel, we need a Semmering base tunnel, we need infrastructure projects, we need economic recovery, but you can stay on your doorstep in Attnang-Puchheim, Mrs. Inner Minister, wherever you are now. [[Abg. Großruck: Austria does not consist of Carinthia! Austria has nine federal states!]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, that is why we want to vote by name here, because we are willing to publish also in the appropriate bottle post, as you voted in order to make this public in your constituency. Voices Let us ask you to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23589	Mr Petzner has now come to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to pay a little more attention in the last few minutes of this session! [[Unrest in the hall.]] Mr Petzner is on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23619	Ladies and gentlemen! After this day, I have to say that Carinthia is being done in two ways: with this first reception point in the south, which is planned for the south and thus also for Carinthia, what Gerald Groszals has already carried out, but for the second – and this is very, very important – today has been claimed several times, even by the Minister of the Interior, that Carinthia does not fulfil the quota for the supply of asylum seekers. It is always said that we should discuss content. I note that this statement that Carinthia does not fulfill the quota is completely wrong, it is incorrect. I would also like to tell you on the basis of specific figures why this is so. With 1. On December 23, 2008, 23 373 asylum seekers are in basic care. On the basis of an Article 15a agreement between the Federal Government and the Länder, aliquot is calculated from this figure to the federal states, which state has to provide as many asylum seekers. The crucial point is that this figure of more than 23 000 does not apply to Carinthia, because Carinthia has a special arrangement within the framework of a 2005 memorandum, where between the then Minister of the Interior Prokop, the head of state Jörg Haider, the head of state Erwin Pröll and the heads of state Pühringer and Häupl were agreed that for Carinthia not the number 23 000 or whatever, but always the basic number, the fixed number 16 800. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's not true!]] Of this number 16,800 asylum seekers – I like to give you this memorandum – the quota is then calculated for Carinthia. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's not true!]] If you calculate this on the basis of 16 800 for Carinthia, you will notice, Mr. Wittmann, that Carinthia very well fulfils the quota for basic supply. [[Abg. Riepl: This is an old hat!]] This is what I want to clarify here for our federal state, which is constantly being wronged: in the supply of asylum seekers, in the first reception centre and in the issue of the town board. [[OBJECTIVES]] And on all three points you will fail and will also be given the corresponding answer from the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23690	Now comes Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Total period of residence of the Group: 4 minutes. - Please. – 4 minutes total. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much? Four minutes?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23726	Madam President. We are already looking at this very carefully, Mrs Muttonen, who has now risen up and has gone back! There's a mayor from Carinthia, Mr. Köfer – he's there? No, he's already left the hall. Interesting, all of them are now fleeing, the Carinthian Members, who will then look in the face of a namental vote. We're going to look at this very carefully, and we're going to publish it. Perhaps the mayor Köfer will then have the opportunity to go into history, not with the headline as a lazy order, but as an important MP, if he is voting against this first recording center in South. That's what we're going to do! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And we are also very excited about how the ÖVP delegates from Carinthia will vote. Many are no longer, but a few are still there. That's what we're going to look at, how you're going to vote. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] One more, yes, wonderful, that's what we're looking at. In fact, however, I came to the speaker's desk because of a second topic: In the end, in the late evening you should also think a little about sports. Sports is always good, but unfortunately we suddenly have a sports minister. And now I look into the eyes of Mr. Ex-Sport State Secretary and also of Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Ex-Sport State Secretary Wittmann, and perhaps the Jacky Maier is still somewhere; he's already gone. [[Abg. Riepl: Is that your farewell speech?]] Here there is an all-party consensus – also with the voices of the SPÖ! – as regards the question of the aggressment of doping. We always agreed that athletes will be held accountable in their clubs and also what Anti-Doping organisations have reached, they will be locked for a long time, they will have to pay for it. A Minister of Sports, who is now taking part, calls for active Austrian athletes to be detained in relation to doping, as well as to be involved in criminal law! [[Abg. Oellinger: Ortlieb!]] Let me give you an example, Mr Darabos: the Knauss case. Let us remember the Knauss case, Mr Wittmann. We have often discussed him, Mr Lopatka. To date, it is not clear and not proven that there has been a doping case here at all. He was sentenced and had to pay off a punishment. Mr. Darabos, would you put Mr. Knauss before a judge? Does he have to be responsible for a criminal judge – one of the most successful Austrian skiers who has not been able to prove to this day that he has baptized guilt? This is not an attitude you have here as a sports minister. This is a scandal that you want to start and criminalize athletes! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We're going to fight it. You will experience some hot hours in the Sports Committee, I guarantee you. It won't lick honey, and we're going to urge this all-party consensus on doping. We stand in front of the Austrian athletes. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am delighted, Mr Wittmann, how you will behave in committee. We are protecting ourselves from our athletes. If there is a minister who will criminalise the athletes, then the athletes will learn our defense. And that will always be so, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e23813	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no one left to speak. The debate is closed. The European Parliament's Directorate has tried to make available the 23 motions for resolutions to the five political groups, so that everything can be clear in the vote, even though at the last minute a request has been made. I think, however, that this too could still be distributed. We shall therefore proceed to the votes. I should like to ask for sufficient attention and to refrain from intervening with the votes. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Widmann, colleagues on exit from the EURATOM Treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Widmann, colleagues and colleagues on the immediate imposition of a international law lawsuit against the Czech Republic. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the reimbursement of child care allowances. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on referendum on the exit of Austria from the EURATOM Treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues on Czech behaviour in the development of the Temelín nuclear power station. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, colleagues, on the inadequate regulation on the Single Market Strengthening and Financial Market Stability Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, fellow Members, on the extension of the Court of Auditors' audit competence in the event of the State taking over of liabilities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Darmann, colleagues on the purchase of three additional Black Hawk helicopters by the BMLV. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues on the disclosure and cover of salaries in the field of press promotion and the ORF. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on no additional point of departure in the south. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must also be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies/Deputies and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, Mr Petzner, to vote in favour of the vote against it. I now ask the author, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer to start with the name call; Mr Jakob Auer will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e24033	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the scribes. To that end, I shall be interrupting the sitting briefly. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e24071	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 161; yes: 53 votes, No votes: 108. The application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bucher Josef; Darmann, Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hagen, Haider, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Lausch, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Petzner; Rosary; Scheibner, Schenk, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache; themesl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky; Vock; Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Großruck, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellererer, Hornek; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Slickovits, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, lignite, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lunacek; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Musiol, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Pendl, Pirklhuber, Plassnik, Plessl, Prammer, Praßl, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, schitzenhelm, Schmeilenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Walser, Weninger Hannes, Windbüchler-Souschill, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Wurm; Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e24258	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues in the field of science and research in the XXIV. legislative period. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Huber, colleagues, on the maintenance of the jobs of dairy farmers and on a fair milk price. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Höbart, colleagues in terms of salary limits for managers of close-to-state businesses and managers whose banks benefit from the support of the federal government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petzner, colleagues and colleagues on the Carinthian demand package to the new Federal Government. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues on the reform or abolition of the grant for childcare allowances. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues and colleagues on national defence policy in the XXIV. legislative period. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Königshofer, colleagues in relation to the provision of loans, particularly to private households and SMEs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert, ladies and gentlemen, on security policy in the XXIV. legislative period. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues and colleagues on cultural policy in the XXIV. legislative period. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues in the field of education policy in the XXIV. legislative period. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues and colleagues on family policy in the Federal Government. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Courts of Justice, colleagues and colleagues on social policy in the XXIV. legislative period. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on European policy in the XXIV. legislative period. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[22:17:54]] Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e24478	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Brosz, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 20/A by Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988, a period of time until 10. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:18:28]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00006_d7e24517	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 75/A to 165/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 356/J to 380/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 10:18 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The sitting is closed.
