ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e3772	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. The official protocols of the 6th and 7ths. 3rd meeting of 3rd meeting In December 2008, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Prehauser, Kickl, Petzner, Dr. Lichtenecker, Mag. Honey and Dr. Wittmann. [[09:06:25]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e3806	We are now getting to the current one. Hours on the subject: “Financial crisis, economic development, energy and climate policy in the EU – the position of the Austrian Federal Government” First of all, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that his speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e3833	Madam President. High house! Today, the Social Democrats have decided to deal with this very subject in the current hour. There is indeed a meeting of the European Council at a time when the European Union is facing a very, very serious challenge. It is willing to accept this challenge. Now it turns out that a large economic area, a large political area in times of global crisis development – ‘financial crisis’, ‘economic crisis’ – can and must act. That's what we're seeing now! And there are also the most important initiatives of Austria. I'll say ahead of time: We disagree that economics and ecology are being played against each other. In this Council meeting, not only the issue of boosting the economy, the economic and economic programmes, the management of the economic crisis will play a role, but also the reduction of greenhouse gases and the issue of climate change. And there is not the issue of whether, at the expense of jobs, one can guarantee a healthy environment for the future and not vice versa, but is crucial that there is this compensation. We know that development is a very, very critical one. We hear of hundreds of thousands of jobs lost in the United States. We know that there are also major problems in the Member States of the European Union – short-time work, terminations – that the impact on the income situation of people has, indeed, an impact on the safety of social systems and that the state is called for to take action. I have to say: It is the French Presidency, it is France, but it is also Austria that plays an exemplary role in this regard, which has acted very massively, efficiently and sustainably in its national framework, but also in its performance at European level. There have suddenly become more up-to-date things, which previously did not have this topicality because of ideological considerations, namely that the state should play and play an active role again. This was seen in the discussions when suddenly it was necessary to help the banks when suddenly the state was an address when they asked him to ask for it when he was active and did so by himself. [[Abg. Strache: But there also needs rules under which conditions the banks...!]] This was not so natural for the bankers, but then they have seen it, because it is a very important part of economic development, because healthy banks have a healthy economy, and because it depends on lending, investment and the willingness that companies can really continue to be active. At the same time, however, governments are required to ensure that the appropriate measures are strengthened in order to meet the demand. I have taken out the two countries mentioned, not only because the French have the presidency, but also because Sarkozy has exerted pressure with his activity in the European framework – in the sense of how Austria has presented itself and how Austria has contributed – that the European Union is active, that there is coordination in the European Union and that one is coordinated. – As Barroso says: An extraordinary time requires extraordinary measures! – That’s crucial! It is important that there is this coordination, but that there should also be a European Union's own contribution in a truly remarkable order. I think that is a point of discussion which is very crucial in the debate of Euroscepticism. There are many who say: Well, do we even need the European Union? What meaning does she have? Some have even said: Even less state, even more private! The truth is, it's different. The truth is that the relationship between state and private has become quite another, that more state, a better state, needs an active state, that the European Union thus fulfils the protection function of governments coming together, taking steps and thus truly efficient. This can be such a large framework as the political and economic Union, the European Union, that it can be effective on a global scale if it really takes the decisive steps. The Economic Research Institute has concluded that Austria has made the second largest economic package after Spain in the European context. I have to say: Austria is an exemplary model in this regard and in fact a model when it acts side by side with France and other countries to take these steps. There is also a psychological effect! Many now write in the comments and articles, it is not only a question of super clever economic experts and super-slow business professionals and bank experts, but it is also a lot of psychology. ==References====External links== December satisfied – a very small stone in this context. There was optimism, there was a willingness to buy. There is a willingness to invest. The cycle begins to move more strongly. [[Abg. Street: Banks do not lend loans to small and medium-sized enterprises!]] It is therefore right that this government has decided to put the tax relief, the tax reform in order to strengthen purchasing power. I'd even say, It is wise to think about whether there should not even be a third economic package, so that a boosting, a future optimism, so that this willingness is really set in motion. At the European Council, there will be two broad lines to the extent that I have recognised this from the media and from the information: whether it is the French who demands more activity – Austria also demands it – or whether it is the German, where it is sawing. In the “spiegel” the German chancellor, who is very respected by us, has more likely to get the accusation that she is snarled and not ready to take the appropriate steps. Therefore, the question at the European Council will be whether the economic package proposed by the Commission will be sufficiently effective and effective. And the question will be what position will be taken in the final effect in this context by Germany and the representatives of the German government. We know that many things are just steps. We know that one should not build a myth either, but it must be recognized that it is a very important sign of solidarity if the governments in Europe work together and act together. If there is to be a crisis-like development if governments are not sufficiently active, there is a crisis of confidence for the people, for the people – not just for the European Union, but for the government and for politics and for all those who work in this political framework. Especially now, it is important that there is confidence, confidence in politics, trust in political action and also in those who work in the economy itself. If you send out these corresponding signals on all available levels, then, as I think, you have achieved this goal. In this context, I think I have to add: We must also be careful! The whole climate discussion is not about the question of economy and ecology, not about the question of both having to be possible, namely employment in a healthy environment, but about acting against those who believe that now the time is favorable to push forward a renaissance of nuclear energy, wherever there is a renaisssance of nuclear energy in the European Union or in the national governments and countries through the back door through zealous lobbying. I am very proud – and many of those who participated in the fight against the start-up of the Zwentendorf nuclear power plant at the time – that it has remained in Austria that Austria has no nuclear power station. That's what it's supposed to be like in the future. We are called upon to make ourselves strong in the European framework that there is a gradual departure from nuclear energy, as it has already been used in some countries, so that it does not come across the back door, not about the argumentation of climate change, not about other arguments – lobbys can often be very inventive – to this Renaissance or to the return to an energy form that is really dangerous and which, in my opinion, does not reach the public's agreement, as some lobbyists believe, to be able to tell it. There are expectations in this European Council. I think Austria is really well positioned at this European Council meeting, that Austria has already taken a corresponding step in the national framework, but also in the previous activities at European level, and will continue to take steps to contribute to a corresponding response to crisis development.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e3913	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e3934	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen at the Intergovernmental Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I had the opportunity to speak and answer on the question of how we will behave within the framework of the European Council in the next two days. The Foreign Minister and I will have the opportunity to represent our positions and thus our interests together. First, on the economic situation, on the economic packages and on the proposed measures: None of the economic forecasts that exist today is such that it would give rise to a return, to waiting or even to satisfaction. No one knows which of these economic forecasts will be the right one. No one is able to say what recession will happen to us to what extent. But one thing is certain: that the psychological part, the part that can be called optimism and confidence, is particularly important to cope with a low, to deal with an economic crisis as a new force! So we should not speak beautifully and beautify it, play it down and be obscenely, but on the other hand we should not be talking about a catastrophe in a phase in which we need confidence, in which optimism and confidence are already part of the solution. Well, how does confidence come about? – Each of us knows that the population, the customer strongly decides whether to spend something or not, whether to make a purchase or to postpone a purchase, whether, if he is able to make the decision, to save rather or to invest, whether he is rebuilding his family home or not. This confidence of consumers, the citizens only arises when they see that politics takes action and does not wait, leans back, devastates or beautifies itself. Therefore, the economic programmes, the boosting of the economy, the measures to strengthen purchasing power, of course also the measures taken in the fight against poverty, the measures taken in the fight against unemployment, the measures to prevent unemployment, are the command of the hour. There are now discussions in all the countries of Europe to what extent these economic packages are bound up, these measures agreed and these actions are to be implemented. I am proud that many decisions have been taken together in this House, such as the protection of the financial market and the banks, which - and this is also mentioned - has now received the approval of the European Commission. Our bank package has the consent of the European Commission and will now be able to prove how much this bank package is capable of fulfilling its purpose, namely the purpose clearly formulated by us, in particular to enable smaller and medium-sized enterprises to obtain loans, to obtain funding. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Not enough!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this context, the Ministry of Finance, the so far active and now new Minister of Finance, which has led these negotiations, should also be thanked. We need to see this support not as a self-interest for one bank or another, but as a means to get back funding and thus new projects to get the economy in swing and fill the order books again. Now there is this discussion in all countries, some with more commitment, some with a little more restraint. We have also opted for economic packages for 2009, for tax reduction, for the boosting of the economy, for the promotion of infrastructure measures, for the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises for the years 2009 and 2010. We are proud – Mr Cap has already said it – that the Wifo has judged that our economic package would take place in Europe in relation to the management, the power, the weight of the economic packages in the second place. We will therefore also work at the European Council to ensure that, as far as possible, all Member States take advantage of the opportunity of the hour and now take these measures and do not wait – as some people say in the European debate – for them to be needed at all, whether they would not be better off holding back money for a later date. Those who follow the public discussion in Europe, who realize that there is also the counter-thinking that it is precisely in worse times when one believes that worse times have to wait for one, and that they have to take action later on. However, I believe that these measures – like a good doctor who starts with measures that start in prevention and does not wait for human suffering – can prevent economic damage due to high unemployment. I believe that we Austrians are making a good contribution to this in their own country and that we also have the task in the European Union to demand this social, economic and this political contribution across Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The future confidence of citizens in Europe in the European Union will be strengthened. Expectation is very high – and we know that if expectation is very high, the disappointment is usually not very far away – and it is therefore a question of preventing disappointment and justifying the expectation of European citizens through particularly determined measures. However, there are also other points on the agenda that are of importance to us, and I would like to mention two of them in the context of the climate package. On the one hand, the climate package – undisputed by all Member States, and we have always been very familiar with it – says it to increase renewable energy, i.e. renewable energy and to achieve the Europe-wide target of 20 percent by 2020. Austria must make a special contribution to this because, compared to other countries, we are already in the best places in Europe, namely in fourth place. Therefore, the objective we are required to achieve in this context is more than 20 percent and is 34 percent in the draft. – A dedicated goal, where no one can say that in times of economic crisis, we are trying to make policy and stimulate economic activity at the expense of the environment. No, but together with the economy, taking into account the interests of the labour market! Preventing unemployment and active environmental policy should not be a contradiction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, a reduction in greenhouse gases, CO2 emissions, is also planned by 20 percent. We have 16 percent reduction by 2020 in such a way that we always have to keep in mind two things, first of all, what measures we can take to reduce greenhouse gases overall – I would like to address only the “transport” and “way cost” keywords – in order to also have opportunities to obtain legal opportunities in order to be able at all to achieve these goals, which we also support. On the other hand, we must protect those industries, those companies which are already worldwide, including from environmental considerations, also in terms of their current production standards, such as steel, glass, paper industry, which threaten to compete, leading to a shift in the sites. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, the discussion of free allowances, which – not in order to prevent an environmental policy objective, not at all! – Despite reaching and despite all efforts to achieve environmental objectives, it is necessary to protect certain areas of our industry. After all, if this sector, which is affected by the chapter of free allowances and the risk of relocation, is calculated on 70 000 to 80 000 jobs in this area. – That is reason enough to consider that we also support these interests within the framework of our environmental concerns, which will therefore also be represented within the framework of the European Council. Finally, let me just say one sentence to Ireland. – Ireland – and we have to respect this – has made a decision. Ireland, however, intends, under certain conditions, to have a fresh discussion on a possible new referendum on a new referendum in Ireland. From my point of view, the Irish people should be respected from our side. Just as the referendum's decision was accepted by us, a new discussion is also being held and – if we are told by the Irish – a new attitude of Ireland with perhaps a timetable for a new referendum is also to be respected and accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4001	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers must not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4025	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! How interweaving the economies are international is currently more than dramatic in our eyes. The US-based financial crisis has been flooded into Europe and the rest of the world, and is also increasingly distressing the real economy. Hundreds of thousands of people have lost their work and thus their livelihood. The purchasing power or demand continues to decline, more and more people have to be terminated, tax revenue is falling, public budget deficits are rising, economies, yes, the whole system is in danger of collapse, if not targeted. Now, speedy, determined, coordinated action is a command of the hour, yes, a need for survival, and now, as it turns out, we are going to get through at the EU summit at European level – although there are clearly some brakers who simply do not want to see the self-regulatory power of the market not working at this stage. Austria is progressing with a very good example in response speed and consequence. In particular, our two economic packages already decided and partly also in implementation take much of what will be required of the Member States in the future. Austria can therefore very self-confidently also demand from other countries a similar determined and effective approach, because the added value, ladies and gentlemen, for our actions, too, is only due to the coordination of national measures. There are common problems that can only be solved in the best possible way. Overall, the crisis shows that those who have the right concepts and who have not spoken of an unrestricted market mechanism are demanding binding rules, controls and minimum social standards – as a framework within which the market economy can function and does not ultimately collapse. That is why this crisis can also be a chance if the right conclusions are drawn. Anticyclic economic policy is not a relic of the political moth box, just as social democrats have always been accused of us, but the concept that is least crisis-sensitive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is now – late, but still – that we are glad to see more and more as conservative and economic-liberal personalities of political life. If, for example, EU Commission President Barroso speaks of the “recessionised circle” and is not only tolerated by the Commission, but even called upon to put in place economic-invigorating measures, even if budget deficits have to be taken into account, this is a sign of a clear price correction. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the elderly among you may still remember what Kreisky had to put on for example for the statement that a few million schilling debts would make him less sleepless nights than a few thousand unemployed more. This should be remembered again. [[Call the ÖVP: This is a dangerous threat!]] – This is not a dangerous threat. I particularly call here to recall past times and past statements. I also expressly welcome the balanced view of the Federal Government in the field of climate protection policy. There is no point in provoking relocations which will cost us jobs, if we are perhaps producing more environmentally harmful jobs elsewhere, even more emissions that ultimately damage our common climate. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But you already agreed to cross-board leasing!]] We only have this one world, and we should protect this world together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4087	Next, Mr. Dr. Schüssel. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4109	Madam President. High house! Within a few months, there has actually been a massive crash of the world markets and the world economy. The stock exchanges have lost 23 000 billion dollars this year alone, the banks worldwide almost 3 trillion dollars. There has been a deadly mixture gathered within a few months: On the one hand, there were massive price increases for the raw materials, for oil such an increase to 150 dollars per barrel, inflation has increased, we have had a credit scarcity, a credit crunch, – and of course this has been on the In real terms, the car producers, the mechanical engineering industry, the construction industry. Exports are gone; exports in China and India alone are broken out by a quarter to a third. Industrial growth has halved. Now there are two scenarios, and you have to express them openly; there is no dictionary, no script for this crisis. This scenario is a rather milder scenario: first of all, a significant recession, a fall in growth by about 3 percent of the current situation we have had – we already feel it – but at the end of 2009 a slight recovery and 2010 again a significant upward trend. - That's the positive scenario. But many economists are talking about a very sharp recession, from 2 to 4 percent recession that can take several years; just like that in Japan for a few years, has been recorded for almost ten years. – Let us not underestimate the effects, even if growth breaks by 3 percent – we already have! In the 1970s and 1980s – 1974 and 1975, 1980 to 1982 – we had a doubling of the unemployment rate in almost all European countries, in some weaker countries even tripled. This is a dramatic development that must not be bagatellized. The best minds are in demand, and of course you have to talk about how to fight this crisis. There are the famous three “t” in English literature: timely, targeted and temporal must be the measures. That means they have to be targeted, temporary and they have to be used in time. I think that Europe's answer has, in any case, been very correct after a slight hesitation at the beginning. You will therefore have to take one of the most important decisions at this European Council, which will be your first, Mr Bundeskanzler. In my opinion, the European answer was correct. Firstly, to restore liquidity immediately in a coordinated strategy. – This has succeeded in the broadest sense. Secondly, Revitalise the financial system through massive banking aid. There has been a contribution of €2,000 billion. We have decided an Austrian bank package of liabilities, guarantees and equity subsidies, which has now been approved by the Commission, totalling €100 billion. And that was not a nameless finance minister, Mr. Bundeskanzler, but he had a name and he also deserves to be mentioned here: Wilhelm Molterer has chained this package – thank God with broad consent of the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] A great thank you and acknowledgment for it! There has also been a massive reduction in interest rates, a leap like never before in the history of the European Central Bank. At this point, it should also be noted that those who have drugged about the ECB every day should keep up and say: They did it well! Other banks have also been looking after. The Bank of England today has an interest rate which is roughly equivalent; the lowest, by the way, since 1680. We have coordinated and worked well at European level. In addition, there is hope that raw materials have become cheaper, oil prices and inflation are falling. The companies are in a much better constitution. You've made good profits in recent years. It is precisely the Austrian economy that is making hope. – We can be proud of this, especially the performance of our industry and small and medium-sized enterprises! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, public households too are in a much better situation, because thanks were given to God in the good times. I My, making debt alone can't be a recipe, Mrs. Grossmann. – You have to save in good times so that you can use the money in difficult times like now, targeted for smart investments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have reserves, a very good potential, with the savings ratio, which is particularly high in Germany and Austria at 12 percent. The use of smart measures, supported by the Austrian government, is wise. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This crisis has proved: Europe and, in particular, the Eurozone must protect and benefit! – This was written to all skeptics in the main book.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4211	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4232	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Dr. Schüssel, where have you been for the last three years?- Oh, my God! You have said here that in the economic good times you have saved. I remember that in 2006/2007 you produced an additional finish, although the economy has worked sensationally, you had $13.5 billion more in tax revenue than you had budgeted, and yet you have not managed to set up a balanced budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you said in your speech that optimism and confidence are already part of the solution. – You are perfectly right, and it would be important now to give the population optimism and confidence to cope with this crisis. But that only works when people see that you're ready to work. And if I look at what you've done so far, I have to say, You didn't do a lot of work! Let's get the bank package! – The bank package has been brought to your attention by the Austrian large banks. They accepted it without if and but as the banks wanted it. We have decided unanimously here in the House, but of all the opposition parties, requests have been made, additional requests have been made, namely, in the direction of, of course, restrictions and participation in this order of magnitude. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't just go here and hand over €15 billion as an emergency aid, a total of €100 billion as a liability simply without the right to vote, without additional requirements to the banks. And here I am with you, Dr. Cap, in this case you can see the meaning of this EU, where otherwise I often doubt: The EU has understood this. Do you sell non-voting participation certificates to the Austrian banks and expect the EU to agree to an 8 percent interest rate?- Oh, my God! Yesterday, the EU clearly stated that it cannot do so to the banks without If and But so much money – and has raised interest rates to 9.3 percent and issued additional requirements so that dividends cannot be paid in any order. That is good, and we have called for that here, not only from the FPÖ, but also from the Greens and the BZÖ have gone in this direction – but you did not want to believe it. And what's now? – In today’s issue of the newspaper “The Press”, the €15 billion is no longer enough. First bank chief Treichl has already agreed that the 2.7 billion he wants will not be enough at all. – That is to say, it is already said that the €15 billion will not be enough, but that you will need €20 billion! Just what you wanted, that is, small and medium-sized enterprises and that small and medium-sized income recipients have the opportunity to get additional loans to boost the real economy, does not happen! – Ewald Nowotny, according to a newspaper article in the newspaper “The Press”, said it quite clearly that the banks are now going here and are investing the huge amounts of money in the ECB, because it is safer there, and are not willing to distribute them on the free credit market, exactly where we would need it! Now I come to the mid-sized billion you have decided where we were: This mid-sized billion doesn't even come to where it's supposed to arrive – and you know that! So that means you haven't done anything to date. Wherever you should do something, that is to make sure that people keep more money in their pockets, and to promote small and medium-sized businesses, you do nothing! There is not even a schedule when you want to implement a tax reform. By the way, this is not a tax reform, Mr Cap, which is nothing but a collective reform. A tax reform means changing structures! But that is not the case! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have a purely collective reform, which means nothing but that you want to make an inflation penalty over the last three years, and nothing else! And not even there you are able to provide a schedule when you want to do this. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you're talking about a business package II. We don't know when it's coming. They are talking about a tax reform that we do not think is just a collective reform. We do not know when to come, there is no timetable for when this reform is planned. We know from internal circles that it may be carried out in March or April. A large German newspaper has entitled about the German Chancellor: ‘Angela bravely’. I say: MM – Merkel heartless! – Do you know what you need to say to the Faymann government? – Faymann cowardly! [[Abg. Feigmann!]] I'm sorry, but prove more courage, take more money into your hand, otherwise be You don't master this crisis! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4309	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4330	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you have said today that politics that economic recovery also has something to do with psychology. – Of course, this is perfectly correct, but in the same breath you have to add, of course, that it is not just trusting and raising what has happened in Austria in the last two years, and you know that very well. Finally, you were government coordinator, after all, you were an essential player in the last government, a co-player especially in the state-near companies of our country – Post, Telekom, AUA et cetera. You know that the policy that was made there was not trustworthy from the point of view of the owners. You just have to admit that. Let's see, for example, the current development of AUA: We need to get 500 million € from the tax payer pot, so that the AUA will even lose us someone else. Or the area of the post office, where today a strike day is defined, where there is still no trend-setting concepts where the owners and even you in your capacity as postal minister were unable to make forward-looking, forward-looking decisions. In the field of telecoms, you have not been able to implement broadband initiatives in partnership with the economy, so that in future Austria will also be made broadband fit and competitive. These are all failures that you have to answer – and then today you're talking about creating trust and that the whole thing has to do with psychology. Say what do you think when people come to you and say: Mr Bundeskanzler, I don't understand that when the oil prices go down in Rotterdam, I don't feel that when I drive my car to the gas station! – What to say You these people? Don't you have any contact with these people? [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Has anything like that ever been applied to you? What do you say to them? That would really interest me. These are the questions people ask us when we come into contact with people. What do you say to a house builder who sees the effects of the interest going down, immediately on the savings book of his grandmother, but not immediately at the loan interest rates? The savings bank interest rates fall immediately, but often only after a few weeks or months. What do you say? You these people? What do you say to people in close-to-state companies who are put on the street? What do you say? Are you these people who are now being put passive because they're being killed in an official agency? They don't understand that their work is worth nothing more. You should find an answer to all of these essential questions of people and not always make beautiful weather policy and get up in floskels. This does not address the problems and, above all, does not solve any problems. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or the bank rescue package that we have relied on – all the parties in the House – because we were aware of the responsibility because we have seen that a large, a huge financial crisis is coming to Austria: We have said yes to this rescue shield for the banks, but unfortunately God has come out exactly the opposite: The small, medium-sized economy still does not receive credit for the important investments it has to make! If you are talking about economic recovery, Mr Bundeskanzler, then there are basically only two accesses: one access via the consumer by strengthening the purchasing power by reducing the tax burden, and the other access via the economy by making investment incentives. Neither of you do it right now! All kinds of announcements, but no impact, real impact, neither on the economy nor on consumers! I would like to say a few words about Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an efficient policy! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] You should finally embark on a structural tax reform that really relieves people – rather than just announcing that your tax reform will bring €2.2 billion to relief, but it will not really be effective in the wallet and will not be felt. You should finally proceed to tax companies equally and to eliminate this difference in taxation. They should finally set up a medium-sized fund to ensure that the banks finally lend to medium-sized enterprises the loans they need in order to make investments. If we don't get fit for the upswing now in this economic downswing, then we won't experience the upswing, ladies and gentlemen! That would have been the task of the Federal Government, and we believe this – for the benefit of Austria, the Austrian economy and the taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4440	Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek's next speech. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4461	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Address to my two previous speakers from FPÖ and BZÖ: It would have been interesting to hear at least one sentence about your European policy ideas. Finally, at this current hour, we are dealing with the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Bank package, economic package – all of this can be discussed in one hour during the debate on the report from the Financial Committee. At least one idea would have been to hear from you what you have visions or what proposals you have at European level would have been very interesting. But obviously you stand there a little with your back to the wall, because you reject the European project as a whole and do not recognize the chances that one would really have. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Faymann, the expectation of the Green Group, as far as your European positions are concerned, was relatively low today, and unfortunately you have not exceeded our expectations, I must say. We would have liked you to not only talk about coordinating measures at European level, but we would like you to look a little at what your European policy objectives are, if you have any. Where are you going? What measures do you want to take in the next few years? Yesterday you from SPÖ and ÖVP rejected a very interesting project in the main committee, namely a pan-European financial transaction tax. I wonder why. There are only two explanations: either because You basically reject opposition requests – that would be very bad – or because you reject the financial transaction tax, which would be a very important, consistent instrument for slowing down this financial market situation. It would be the only effective – and above all quickly effective! – Instrument that we can now implement at European level. Professor Agenger of the Economic Research Institute has said that there is no better time for this than now. And that's why my total wonder, Why you reject a pan-European financial transaction tax. What's your reason? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Are you committed to EU-wide financial market surveillance? Are you committed to a Europe-wide authorisation requirement for certain financial products? – These would be all measures that would be a consequence of the crisis, which would be a targeted fight against causes. Unfortunately, you have not said anything about this, and that is why we can only assume what your objectives are. But at this European summit there is still another very important issue, which is also very crucial for many people, and you have seen very little in the cards. For years it was discussed – from the European Union, from the UN to the last common table in Austria: What is really important and necessary to combat the climate crisis? Today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the European Union will make the most important choices for the next ten years in this area. Unfortunately, the Austrian position was in the past the one that represented the wrong side. Today you have been very offensive behind the Austrian heavy industry, and you are not behind the Austrian climate protection policy and the Austrian climate protection targets. With regard to the Austrian position on climate protection and environmental policy compared to those of other countries, it has unfortunately slipped backwards in recent years. We have the red lantern as far as climate change and environmental policy are concerned, while we are still entering the European Union as a pioneer country in 1995, and this is very, very bitter, especially for the economic opportunities that lie buried in this area. Austria has consistently opposed the renewable energy directive at European level over the last few weeks, together with Italy. Faymann, Berlusconi, Pröll – a front line against the targets at European level. I wonder, Why? Is this just a phrase for you that environmental protection and economic policy objectives are compatible, or do you actually represent the spirit of the seventies, where one was played against the other? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, Austria has also put itself on the side of an old heavy industry with regard to the allocation of emission certificates. You don't want to auction, you want to award for free! And you have also put yourself on the side of the car industry, namely the German car industry, which has fallen asleep in significant developments. Austria has been significantly involved in the absence of negotiation of CO2 emission limits for modern, new passenger cars. The entire EU climate package has been extremely watered, and Austria was on the front line. Their statements today are extremely unbelievable and extremely dissatisfying, because I believe that the population in Austria is expected to be particularly affected by the European Union's strong environmental and climate policy. If there is a place where one can actually move forward, then it is the European level. Unfortunately, Austria – and above all Bartenstein, Pröll – has been on the wrong side in recent years: on the side of the brakers, on the side of the preventers of the future, on the side of the preventers of opportunity. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have not corrected this course today and in no way can you see that these giants challenge you – to create the change of course – for which we only have five to seven years to deal with. have, really important is and that you are also willing to take new paths. And that's the unfortunate thing. One final sentence: Mr Faymann, European policy also presupposes European thinking and, above all, requires the willingness to live up to these institutions positively, not only to understand them somewhere on the edge as an internal policy vehicle, but to truly meet them with life and with political, contentive goals. I missed it with you today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4563	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4585	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glawischnig, neither the SPÖ nor the ÖVP reject a European financial transaction tax. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yesterday voted down!]] What we reject is an Austrian financial transaction tax. On the contrary, we are committed to introducing such a tax at European level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also do not represent any position of the heavy industry or the old heavy industry, but what we... – Yes, I know exactly what you mean, but there is a huge difference: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Free allocation! Poland, Czech Republic, Austria are the brakers!]] Poland does not want a free allocation for coal-fired power plants, but Austria does not. Austria is taking part in the auction of coal-fired power plants. What we say is the following: The Voest, a hugely environmentally friendly steel power plant – if steel power plants can be environmentally friendly, but it is one of the cleanest in the world – is getting massive disadvantages from the fact that in Europe the regulations are much more stringent and can be paid much more for CO2 emissions than in the competitive countries. We are in favour of a certain balance. Of course, we also need to take care of what the whole thing has to do with it. Let's see what happened in the first period! This has led to a partial decommissioning or reduction of clean production in Austria and, in other countries – in South Africa, for example – production has been expanded, although production there is much more dirty than in Austria and much more CO2 is produced. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where is the cleanest steelworks in the world? Not in Austria!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: But we don't need Chinese standards!]] What happened in the first period led to the following result, and that is the political crazy one, for all sides: We have fewer jobs and added value in Austria, and we have more CO2 worldwide! What's that supposed to mean, please?- Oh, my God! What we are working for is precisely the opposite: for more jobs in Austria, for more value added in Austria and for less CO2 globally! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is, of course, a better solution than free allocation, no discussion at all, if we create the following by customs or by tax: That when importing products or services, the CO2 contained therein is taxed and products are taxed vice versa when exported. This is, of course, a better solution. It is also in the government programme that we want to do this, but that is not what we can achieve from today to tomorrow and what we in Austria can decide on our own for the European level. But we are committed to this solution, and as an intermediate solution, so that we do not produce any more CO2 globally, but less, we are committed to free certificates – of course also for the Austrian heavy industry. But this is not only about these questions, but also about other important questions, and Mr Bucher is right to say: Of course, the tax reform does not make people feel. This government was praised eight days ago. The tax reform has only been announced, but has not yet been decided and has not yet arrived. No one is expected to have decided or even paid out a tax reform eight days after the fishing of this government, or would have been noticeable in the wallets. That's absolutely beyond. [[Abg. Blow: The schedule is missing! That's the problem!]] The schedule is relatively simple, I can tell you: The tax reform will be felt by people in April, at the latest in May. But that's not a great secret. Any person can calculate when this will be about effective on the basis of the roadmap that such legislative plans have. [[Abg. We'll take you by the word!]] But it is not only crucial when this happens, but it is also crucial what happens. And what happens is that – just as for income below €1 300 per 1. A discharge of approximately 400 to 500 € has occurred on July – a discharge is also made for the above incomes. Any Austrian who earns more than €1 300 can expect a tax relief in an area of €400, €500, €600 per year. – That’s crucial. If it is mounted, it lasts so long, then I already ask the question: How was it when the FPÖ or the BZÖ was in the government? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] – Nothing was there! [[Abg. Bucher: There has been the biggest tax reform!]] There's only been talk for years. There has already been a discharge. I remember that the alleged biggest tax reform of all time has on average affected €7. We talk, on the other hand, from 400 to 600 €. – Only to see the difference between what you are talking about and what we are doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One Last Word Still [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] One crucial question is also the teaching of the pension system, and the teaching of the pension system is, for example: Pensions are too important to suspend them exchange rates, but the first, the state pillar is crucial and must be viable.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4762	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4783	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! This year was a record year of hail damage in agriculture. We had 55 hail days with over 100 million € damage. – There has been no such thing in the last 60 years. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website 700 000 solid meters of wood were thrown, roofs covered, 750 power lines cut. There were more than 17,400 helpers and 1,200 fire brigades in use, and 8,000 households were without electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, it costs money. These are the consequences of climate change, and they cost money. But also the causes of climate change cost money – a lot of money. Oil burning hit us all last year. We paid the fuel prices, and we remember exactly that one year ago, on 1st. January 2008, a barrel of oil cost more than $100 for the first time. This is a theoretical story, but once you count what we all spend on tanking, on oil consumption, the 35, 40 cents of extra price per litre worldwide at a daily consumption of over €6,000 million at today's high price. These are huge sums, about which we chat so loosely in the discussion, but we should pay close attention to what this means in the year: 1 200 billion € Minimum have gone from our cash register to the cash registers of the oil countries, the oil companies. And they weren't prepared for it. They had to do something with the money: They had to do it. They have speculated on the world's financial markets. They have speculated in food, in oil, in raw materials. – And we wonder why there has been huge price explosions in the past year. We're telling each other that Biosprit was guilty of it, and the oil lobbys are laughing all day long about this well-successed gag. Ladies and gentlemen, our global economic system has been shaken, and we know very well that climate change is linked on the one hand – i.e. “Kyrill” and “Paula” – and the financial crisis on the other. It is therefore very good that precisely these two issues will be discussed at this Brussels European Council, because one is the answer for the other or the resolution of the climate disaster will also create jobs that we need in order to cope with the financial crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this magical square, the one side is oil, the other side of climate change, the third side is the financial crisis, and the fourth side – each of us feels – is the purchasing power loss. It is therefore very essential and crucial that we take proper decisions at this summit, which are courageous. First: We have to get out of the oil. Natural gas is not an alternative, because we only exchange the dependence of Arabia and Russia on oil against the dependence of Russia on the gas. We know very well that this is not going from today to tomorrow, but we also know that if we do not consciously approach this path, it will never happen. Maybe we need 30 years, maybe only 10 or 15, but we have to deal with it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] We know it's possible. We have also managed to remove the acid rain: The forest lives. We have managed to keep our water clean; we have built sewerizations and treatment plants. We will also deal with climate change. We really just need to try and take the new ways seriously. This will bring innovation and jobs, it will help our medium-sized economy, and there will be a prospect for young people. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well: The added value with us is the value added that helps people here in the country. And we know very well that the work is going to happen with us. This year started with “Paul”, which was the storm. I myself have a good motive to work for a good future for Austria and the next generation: I became a grandfather in the summer. The girl is also called Paula – I also thank the opposition for the joy – and I tell you [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] When my Paula will be so old like the average here in the house, then we are in 2060. She'll look back and wonder that we're so careful today. That's why: Good courage and strong decisions at the Council in Brussels! I think we're prepared for it. We can do it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4876	Now comes Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e4898	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! What bothers me and what gives me to think is the way the Greens are trying to pursue their environmental policy. You will no doubt know that I am an environmental politician with all my heart, really out of conviction, but going here and messing up the Austrian economy is a really wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: From what else but out of conviction?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To go here and defend the emissions trading, which is really a shield-citizen's mark, is also the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is the Kyoto Treaty! Do you want to abolish the Kyoto Treaty?]] And preaching water and drinking wine is also the wrong way. Mrs. Glavischnig, I've been looking at what car you're private. A great vehicle! Sure fast, very sporty. The algae are also quite, very great, but environmentally friendly this vehicle is not, Mrs Glavischnig, certainly not. [[Ironic Oh- and Ah-Rufe as well as applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: This is fatal!]] It is this dishonest policy that disturbs me: a Green Climate Protection Commissioner who is referring to nuclear power, a club leader who likes to drive a sports car. You should take your own nose and try to implement what you ask of the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is essential for us that we reduce the dependence of Austria. That must be our goal. That means that we use our own resources, for example, hydropower. The greens are against the expansion of hydropower. We need to use hydropower more and more to make ourselves free and independent. We also need to make greater use of wind power and photovoltaics, of course, but the emissions trading, ladies and gentlemen, we reject it, just as we reject “Nabucco”. It is a fatal mistake to believe that it could be a way out of the crisis if we build a Nabucco pipeline. Terrorists will not sprung skyscrapers in the future, no, they will sprung pipelines, ladies and gentlemen. This Nabucco pipeline leads through unsafe territory, and it also leads through Turkey, and that will be Turkey's entry ticket to the European Union. I therefore believe that the Nabucco pipeline is not the right way for Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As we are also talking today about the European Union's energy policy: Yesterday, we are aware that the European Union wants to ban the bulbs. Ladies and gentlemen, I really wonder if we have no other concern. It is also an objectively wrong way. Incandescent lamps still make sense where you often have to turn on and off light. The life of energy saving lamps decreases dramatically when these lamps are often switched on and off. That means that incandescent lamps are not generally forbidden, that is nonsense. Secondly, Mercury is found in energy-saving lamps, and energy-saving lamps are therefore to be disposed of as special waste. So the child is poured out with the bath. I therefore ask you, but I also ask you to assert your influence at European level, so as not to pursue this nonsense, but rather to look at the really big problems at European level, such as binding and enforceable safety standards for nuclear power plants. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know the problems we have around Temelín. There would be a real need for a means of penetrating. Werner Neubauer is already on a good track with his complaint. I hope it really leads to success. Thank you very much, dear Werner! [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] We need to make ourselves strong. And then it is also essential – and thus the circle closes – to support the domestic economy, because in this country it is produced environmentally friendly. If we export the voest to any country where these conditions do not exist, then the environment will be much more burdened. I am also in favour, ladies and gentlemen, that we should do everything we can to create a common awareness that we, the citizens of Austria, are buying from local companies. A few years ago, there was a great show in the ORF with Günter Tolar, which was called “Made in Austria”. I'm sure you can remember. It would be great if the ORF, our state radio, would re-enter such a transmission format so that we could support the domestic economy on this path. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Last sentence: What I also want is for us to put an Austrian EEG on track during this legislative period, so that we can become more independent and freer.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5016	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5037	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, parliamentarian Cap – a slightly different variant, less cabaret, more at least here presented state-bearing seriousness – has expressed praise for the European Union in particular. – Yes, no one doubts that it is now easier to cope with this crisis in the European States than it would be for the individual state. However, one must also say – and this should also be the subject at the summit – that it took a very long time for the European Union to recognise the seriousness of the situation, and that, in the second place, it is still working on a single line and that strange jealousy arises, whether or not Mrs Merkel is present at any informal meeting. There is still a little bit of a break and a bit of light that some are putting their own vanity in the foreground and not the common problem solution in this European Union. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As I said, sensible measures – of course. However, it must also be said that the sum of the measures in the European Union is still measured on the basis of individual actions. And that's where Colle Cap has the Austrian Business package and the financial package famous. Yes, we stand to add €100 billion – € 15 billion Direct grants, the rest of the liabilities – that was an important package and was brought over the stage very quickly before the fishing of the current National Council, or – you have to say – decided very quickly, because it has not yet gone over the stage. We asked yesterday in the main committee: Why doesn't the economy get the promised money? That's where the Federal Chancellor said: How's that going? It has not yet been implemented, the EU has only agreed. Yes, but we see the problem again, ladies and gentlemen. We know, just in such a crisis, it helps twice as quickly as possible. And we here, the House, have given our approval to all the concerns that we – including the opposition – have had to do with this 100-billion-euro package, in the hope that it will help quickly – and not primarily the banks. – Banks must also be helped, because it is important for Austria’s financial centre, but above all for the banks to pass this money on to small and medium-sized enterprises who need it to secure jobs. This is the interesting measure that we need, and it still does not happen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Especially now that we are discussing here in the beautiful plenary room, entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized enterprises sit at the banks and ask and beg for loans. But they don't get it because the banks say we're still waiting. Not we say that, but it says, for example, the National Bank President Novotny: The banks have not spent the money on the borrowers, not on the economy, but on the ECB, because it is safer for them. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! That would be your task now, not to consider an extension of the current liability framework, not to think about an extension of the 100 billion package, but to ensure that the money for which the taxpayer is liable also comes where it belongs, namely as credit to the borrowers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But there are other things to do too. This financial crisis was the seaquake, but the economic tsunami is still coming, ladies and gentlemen, when this is going through in business, for example through the strict accounting rules. Yes, Mr Cap, that could have come from you. It would not be bad if you in the Federal Government were to make sure that something happened, perhaps to loosen the accounting rules for the next or next year, that the Basel II provisions will be suspended once for the next two years, that you also insist that banks do not overturn the risk to the borrowers, just as it has now happened. Over 1 per cent surcharges on interest rates, ladies and gentlemen! These are the wrong measures. Here the Federal Government is required to do something actively next to the bank package. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The subject of tax reduction: Yes, right and good, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Grossmann, no human being is against the anticyclic budget policy, but €2.2 billion in tax reduction is not anticyclic, which is too little to increase purchasing power during this crisis period. We would have expected more from you. And the regional budget policy costs us €7.5 billion in interest this year. If we had them to relieve taxpayers, that would be better.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5128	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5151	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It would not be the FPÖ if it did not use a debate on the EU and the crisis to evade the green club in the stupidst way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Tell me a reasonable argument, which is opposed to driving a Toyota hybrid today, which according to type-approval, if I am not mistaken, emits 104 grams of CO2 per kilometer. This is exemplary in the global automotive industry. [[Abg. Strache: But she's driving a cut BMW Cabrio!]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, not to be beautiful, but optimistic, that was a motto of your speech today. First of all, I thought, yes, our Federal Chancellor is actually right. Then I remembered, unfortunately: How was that in spring? – The AUA is renovated. Everything wonderful! But today we must be happy if we can still bring them back to life with millions of thousands of jobs. At the time, Minister Faymann was in charge! What did he do? There too – “Go!”, I hear from the government bank –: He has shifted responsibility to Minister of Finance Molterer. Everyone is responsible, only he is not. He's responsible for the beautiful weather. Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, I like to be optimistic, but unfortunately in today's situation I must say: First of all, trust in those who act requires – you must neither deserve it, given the history – and secondly, I prefer not to be a pessimist or an optimist now, but for the time being Realist. I mean, for optimism, how much occasion is there? – In the issue of the “Herald Tribune” of Saturday, that is, three days ago, it says: Monthly US Job Losses Worst in 34 Years. – So: The job losses in the US have been the worst in 34 years. In November alone, 533,000 jobs were lost! – I am already aware that this is to be converted – the US is large, Austria is small – but it is inevitable that this is overshadowed in Europe and in Austria. So: What reason do we have for optimism? If we study the international media – less the Austrian – then since September the horror news in particular from the USA does not rip off! And then – you can learn something for Austria – if a structural crisis coincides with an economic crisis, then real fire is on the roof. The U.S. automotive industry demanded a grant of $25 billion three weeks ago, a week ago, $34 billion. Well, how much will it be in eight weeks? – These cars are as good as incalculable! [[Call the SPÖ:120!]] I do not want to make these decisions: to support inconvenient cars – or to risk millions of additional unemployed. But the Austrian Post should perhaps also consider – this concerns the leadership as well as the trade unions – whether it should not respond in time to the new situation before both come together and stand with the back to the wall. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] “Austria threatens “heavy recession” – “The press” of today, Wednesday, 10th. December. If you are following these economic forecasts – let us say, from me, only since June – then you will find that they have a uniform trend, namely, where? – From forecast to forecast, the values will be reduced! And what is announced here is certainly the most severe recession since 1975, if it is not even clearer. And that's where you're talking about optimism, Mr. Faymann? - I mean, that won't be enough. [[Abg. Grandruck: You have to have it!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: One must have optimism! Fear of death has also died!]] A European Council is about to take place. Can we now trust in Europe and our ministers and chancellors and Prime Minister there? – Mr Cap, you have sworn, coordination is necessary, joint action is necessary in banking policy, interest rate policy and fiscal and economic policy. Yes, of course, no reasonable person will dispute that, but: On what contractual basis does all of this work, or does it not? These are all gentlemen's agreements, gentlemen's agreements! That has no contractual basis! You will have to face this sooner or later: Neither in banking and financial market policy nor in the common fiscal policy, there is a European basis for joint action – which would be important and necessary! Austria alone will not be able to save the economy, not in Austria and not elsewhere where. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need this European coordination! We need to say it briefly, more Europe and no less. – This is about the SPÖ address as well as the FPÖ address.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5265	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen) I don't think you're gonna make it with the sick man!]] Mr Jarolim, one more call at the time of entry into the agenda – and you will receive a call for an order! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[10:24:43]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5305	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5381	I also say that the First Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[10:24:50]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5402	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the Members of Parliament have requested Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, to report to the Financial Committee on the application 20/A of Member Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, a period of time until 21. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place at the end of this debate. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5429	In order to be able to negotiate items 1 to 5 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 1 to 5 are the reports of the Financial Committee on Government Templates (1 of the Supplements): Service law Novelle 2008 (30 of the Supplements), and (4 of the Supplements): 2. Social security amendment law 2008 (27 of the supplements), as well as applications 37/A: Federal Act amending the 1981 Export Funding Act (28 of the Supplements), and 38/A: The Federal Act amending the Export Promotion Act (29 of the Supplements); the main committee report on the reimbursement of an overall proposal for the election of the Chairmans of the Federal Parliamentary Committee on Complaints in Military Affairs at the Federal Ministry of State Defense for the first time. January 2009 (new six-year term of office) (31 of the Supplements). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted. This means that the required two-thirds majority is clearly available. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5457	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 and 4 and 12 and 13 of the agenda should be summarized. There is no objection, however. Isn't it? - No, that's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5483	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 108 minutes, Free 96 minutes, BZÖ and greens each 84 minutes. We shall come to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:27:59]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1d.b._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Staff Act 1948, the Pension Law 1965, the Federal Law on Pension Pensions, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the Law on
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5522	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First, Mr Herbert. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5553	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This Service Law Novelle 2008 reminds me very much of the government statement presented here just a week ago. Here, like there, you can say: More appearance than being, more bad than right. Allow me to say: Many written leaves do not yet testify to a successful work. If I only look at the increase in the salary recorded therein for the public servants who are at a ridiculous 0.1 percent higher than the inflation rate, I have to say: No major conclusion has been reached by the government, together with the Public Service Trade Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that it would have been different has been seen by other professional groups, such as the metallurgists. Not that the great riches had been negotiated there, but at least there the salary was substantially higher than in the public service. And that would have been a struggle. [[Abg. Riepl: The metallers are always better!]] Or, for example, the deterioration in disciplinary law: With the introduction of a general prevention, it is now possible that no longer only the official's debt is used for criminal proceedings, but that it is also taken into account to achieve the greatest possible deterrence. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I must say: This is just a “classical” determination to make critical spirits or political opponents in the public service mouth dead. This is an approach that is absolutely unacceptable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The new regulation of the introduction of a disciplinary procedure is also in line with that in the circulation procedure. That is, there is no need for a meeting, no more discussion, but the initiation of a disciplinary procedure is practically in the ‘passing by’. Now to the introduction of the “flexipool” solution, which Mrs. Fekter – which is unfortunately not here at the moment – has been very much loved, after her training, by young police officers, after two years of training, to “improve” the missing personnel policy in the executive, by “correcting” young police officers in our country, personnel holes that should have been filled years earlier. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's exactly the point! The under-retirement... compensate!]] So you see, ladies and gentlemen, this Novelle Service Law is really no improvement. It can even be said that many long overdue reforms and improvements in this novel – once again! – have been ignored, although their need is known to you. As an example, in this context I should like to mention only the cover of the additional charges, and I should also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to invite you to give your assent to this motion for a resolution. However, no consent is obtained from this Service Law Novelle on our part. Even if there is acceptance on one point or another, the general disparity and the negative will prevail. That is why I say, “No, thank you! ” to this government template.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5641	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5690	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5711	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would have been surprised if more positive expression had been made here by my previous speaker. Let me, however, ladies and gentlemen, because this is important to me, in the context of this debate on the current Service Law Novelle, to the colleagues of the public service, but above all and explicitly to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, because in many discussions public servants are always considered only a cost factor. [[Abg. Scheibner: Justice!]] [[Abg. Bucher: The Justice Guards!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Thank you for doing excellent work under these bad conditions! That's right!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann, let us not forget what we have experienced in recent years here in discussions, where public officials have just passed over and the public service has always been given to the Pranger! I can recall many such debates here in the house. [[Abg. Street: abandoned by the NGOs and the politicians, the executive!]] – I invite you all to think about it: Let us not forget that all of this is a valuable employee – which should not always be seen as a “cost factor”! [[Abg. Strache: Then make sure that there is a corresponding reward and equipment!]] On the occasion of this debate, I think it would be good for all of us to thank the public officials for their work. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the former Federal Minister responsible for the public service, the State Secretary, who sits on the government bank, but also Mr Neugebauer and his negotiating team. [[Abg. Street: The officials don't have anything from the handshake!]] The discussions have been conducted very positively for a very long time, I think, and have been completed to a good degree. [[Abg. Strache: You probably also say thanks to Molterer as a former Finance Minister!]] It really belongs to imagination to represent the present novelle of service, because now I tell you quite honestly – just listen to me with this one sentence, then you will know! –: [[Abg. Scheibner: “Thank you...!”]] [[Abg. Strache: “Thanks to Mayor Häupl!” – You must also thank him!]] If it were the way you were doing it, we would have had calls and many complaints. The President said yesterday in the Committee, and I am doing the same: [[Abg. Street: “Thank you! ”]] I didn't even have one! – That shows me how well... [[Abg. Scheibner: You haven't thanked the judicial guard yet!]] I remember what you decided. Don't forget it, otherwise I'll tell you what you've rationalized! . I believe that we have brought about some modern improvements here together, including from the social policy approach. I also believe that, according to an old tradition, the “small social partnership” has worked wonderfully – as we used to call it. I believe that both the service representatives and the service providers have here jointly recognised the open points. My colleagues will then address some detail question, so I do not want to do everything in detail now. I invite all of you, however, to take decisions here together with us in the further measures of this Federal Government, even when it comes to the budget. One thing is clear: You were still there when thousands of planning sites were saved. [[towards FPÖ]] Now, on the other hand, we have a federal government, thanks to which there are a thousand more planning posts for the police. It is interesting, therefore, that everything is now presented negatively and that everything was positive at the time. Don't forget it, because we don't forget it either! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that in a debate such as this one, which is also about the salary conclusion, one can always find arguments against any variant – and we have already dealt with many variants in history here. I think, however, that if there was no acceptance from this House, they would have told us not only once, but often. To sum up, it is a good, excellent government template, a good negotiating result, both from a social policy point of view, as regards the service rights components, but also where the salary is concerned. [[Abg. Oil: Hallelujah!]] [[Abg. And now he says thank you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: “Thanks to colleagues!”]] I think it's a fair and just novel, and invite you to give this novelle your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5976	The next item is the speech by Mr Windholz. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e5997	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The Service Law Novelle was presented by Mr Pendl in “impressive” form – he thanked almost everyone. However, we do not share his opinion over long distances. There are individual areas that are in order – yes – but tend to be a real deterioration due to this novelle. I'll start with the right of consent. Today we have a special day, because today there is the warning strike at the post office. It is announced that there will be a reduction in staff, which will affect thousands of people – post and Telekom employees. And now the Minister of Finance's right of consent to early retirement due to permanent incapacity for service at Post and Telekom is abolished! If you look at the reasoning, you can read that there have been only 150 cases in the last two years. – I think this figure will now rise rapidly. But what is essential – you did not write in there, but I asked that yesterday in committee – is: What is the rejection rate? – The rejection rate is between 20 and 30 percent. I believe that Mr Faymann is apparently too high, and that is why we want to simply abolish this instrument. The officials' ascent examination will also be re-regulated. Why, this could not really be answered yesterday in the Committee. They say she's not up to date. On the question of how many colleagues use it, there was no answer either, you do not know that. Mainly, we take it off and replace it with a new professional maturity test. Not known at the moment. Of course, it's going to be bad with the allocations – that's really a "attack" to the field of executives. This is already the direction of the government programme, because the competent Minister of the Interior has announced that he will create a staff pool – to compensate for Karenzen and allocations. In the government programme, it says literally: ‘These replacement forces are used flexibly for two years after their initial training, where there is the greatest need.’ When I look at the government template, I have to say that there are very different words there. There it is said that this is for the purpose of training; we want to ensure better training. – Then you should actually ask: What was the current two-year training? Is that so bad? – No, really not, but one would like to put out a protective instrument of the BDG here. Now someone can be assigned to the service three months a year, and in the future you want to send the executive on the journey for two years. When I consider, for example, how large the Federal State of Lower Austria is, and when I look at what Dr. Haidinger has already announced about practices in the Ministry of the Interior, I can only say: Everyone who is not politically reliable, anyone who does not care, will be sent on the journey, for example from Zwettl to Wiener Neustadt or vice versa. [[Abg. Booker: This is unheard of!]] Travel fee: Section V shall not apply. – If this is not a deterioration, Mr Pendl – he is not in the hall now – then I do not know. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] What would the civil service as a whole, but in particular the executive need? – Of course, motivation. What is being done here continues to contribute to internal termination. Burn-out is to a large extent to be found in the executive. This federal government has already written nothing into its programme, and it does not do anything now, which would go towards a fair right of service. You've announced that, though. There is, for example, a broadcast of April Minister Bures, then responsible for officials, to create a modern and fair right of service. – We miss that completely. What's all there is – maybe President Neugebauer should listen when he's done with his phone call... – you listen, very well. [[Abg. Newborn: I'm listening!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are current things, these are further deteriorations in relation to existing law. The executives, who are permanently employed, who have almost no weekend off, want to reduce Sunday and holiday overtime to 50 percent – this is being examined in the Ministry of Finance. I can only tell you: If that's not the most massive deterioration, then I really don't know! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. Strache: The executives will probably say thank you!]] So you can assume that this will not be taken without a comment. I think a group will be particularly grateful for this, and this will be seen at the next election of personnel representatives. Mr Pendl has just thanked him – the executive will thank the two parties, Red and Black. I hope you will also receive a strong exit in these elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6092	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6113	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now at least what it is about has been said: It's about the personnel representation elections. Therefore, a good salary conclusion with important social improvements in the public service is negatively presented. [[Abg. Oillingers: Which social law...?]] That is the reason, ladies and gentlemen, and we strongly oppose that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With 3.55 percent increase, we have a good salary statement not only for salaries, but also for allowances and remunerations. Anyone working in this area knows how important it is that percentage increases are made, that there is no one-off payment and that inflation in particular is paid off. I am also active in such a body, and it surprises me when it is said so easily that it has been badly negotiated and that it is far too little. All those who criticize here should go into such a body and negotiate there for employees, because only then do they know and can confirm what it means to conduct wage and collective treaty negotiations. I miss the willingness to do so – I think very few really do – but there are big sayings here. The representatives of the federal states, the municipal and the municipal states have pledged to take over this 3.55 percent. Especially in economically difficult times, it is necessary and important to strengthen purchasing power. A word to those who constantly criticize this conclusion. It should already be noted that the difference in this salary balance is much lower than in the past few years, for example, with the metallurgicals that are regarded as a guideline for salary statements. The increase in metallers is 3.8.3%, the increase in the public service is 3.55 percent. That means that this is a good conclusion – as I said, without one-off payments, which means that the increase is sustainable. Pension contributions are also increased. And in recent years, the opposition has repeatedly criticized the fact that one-off payments have no sustainability, which is also right. That is why this conclusion was brought about. This conclusion applies to hundreds of thousands of staff, about 350 000 people in the public service of the federal, state and local authorities who benefit from it. And thanks goes to the staff representative in the public service who conducted these negotiations with Fritz Neugebauer, our president, at the head. Dear Fritz, thank you for your commitment and your commitment to the public service staff! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This innovation also brings about some labour and social improvements for employees in this area. I just mention a few: interruption of rest leave if a more than three-day care allowance has to be applied; improve the basis of assessment in the handling of new and the cost-benefit scheme; extending the Sabbath until 2018, in addition to teachers; Harmony in the field of long-term insurance, says “hackler regulation” – a few days before the national elections it was extended – so that the periods of exercise, say agricultural periods, times of commercial activity before you could pay into the cash registers, or also sick leave as in the ASVG, this will be taken over in the public sector. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these are important improvements for the staff, for the employees in the public service. Finally, let me also express my thanks to all the employees, thanks for their commitment, commitment and performance. It is often presented as if the officials who charge employees in the public service were only costs, and their services are not brought in front of the curtain. However, I would like to make this very clear today, because all of us, including our representatives of the National Council, benefit from the fact that we have good workers and employees in the public service. In particular, I would mention the staff of Parliament, the House, and above all our parliamentary staff. They deserve to be mentioned today within the framework of this Novelle Service Law, for the work, for the cooperation, for the support we enjoy from them every day. I would like to thank all the employees of this house very much for their commitment and performance. We hope this will continue in the future. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] A good conclusion, a good service law novelle! Congratulations once again to the public service. And I ask for your consent and the opposition to mention the positive in this Novelle Service Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6174	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6195	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The incense that Mr Pendl has swung here is still noticeable. He's still pretty hard in the air, Mr. Pendl. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: Because he's so right!]] After the many thanks, the title “Thanks ” would be appropriate for you, colleague Pendl. He's definitely better suited. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If at least three or four thanks are expressed in each speech, that is a little too much for me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] . I also come to the salary conclusion, but before the previous speech by Mr Krainer, because it fits so well on the subject. It is rare, but it is increasingly common for a social-democratic financial speaker to come to the speaker's desk here and explain to us, the plenary, with the agreement of some colleagues: We will no longer be able to afford the environmental standards we have, because the Chinese have lower standards! There's something we need to do. What does that mean, Mr Krainer, in relation to environmental standards? Will we also adopt Chinese directives or standards with regard to the protection of workers? As far as wages are concerned, will we pay for the increase in public service in Renminbi? [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: Mr Colleague, you are now twisting the words!]] Will we introduce child labour in Austria so that we are competitive? – These are already exciting questions. [[Abg. Shopf: Who said that?]] First of all, I hear from the Federal Chancellor: Optimizism has been announced. And then what's going to happen? – There are the Chinese, and we are now afraid of the Chinese and their competition. Ladies and gentlemen, either we have high quality products – and I say, of course, also counts the quality of public services; between brackets: without thanks, but of course this is a very important element – or we do not have this quality. And if we have these qualities in industrial production, in services, in public service, then we should consider how we develop, improve them – but not how we bring the standards to the level of China. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And with that, I'm already in the public service. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have already referred to him before, my colleague, only in case you have not taken care of it. It was not in the previous debate, but also in the public debate this time – I agree – the parole was put in the foreground: We can't afford that, which is good. It would have been embarrassing to say to this conclusion: We cannot afford to do that if billions are made available on the other hand, without knowing whether they are well established. We know that they are partly not well-designed, because the state has renounced its ability to make demands here – I am now talking about the bank package. If we spend billions on the one hand, we cannot say, on the other hand, where it is about salaries or income not only in the public service, but also in the private sector: We can't afford that! – Thank God there was no debate this time. But what is missing in the debate? – There are not a few public servants – I do not come to talk about the additional fees – who have very, very low entry salaries, especially in young years, when it comes to entry salaries; whether the executive officer, colleague Pendl, should know this, be employees or workers in the public service, postal staff. 1 300 € gross is about 1 000 € net. Can it be said that 3.55 percent are appropriate to pay off inflation? - I don't know. They all know very well that for the groups in these areas, no matter if 1 000 € net, 1 100 € net or 1 200 € net – and 1 200 € net are already the starting salaries for teachers – which has a massive impact on inflation, and will also have an impact, even if it goes back. And what does public service do? – 3.55 percent linear! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Col. Wöginger then tells us here: We don't want to make one-time payments, but there's a pedestal line anyway. - There's nothing. There is 3.55 percent for the net of 1 000 € and for the net of 4 000 €. I am in favour of it being 3.55 percent – it could have been more – but that you will not lose and use a word from the government parties that will have to come net at €1,000 over the next year, is a shame for both parties, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whether you want to pay in one-off payments or with base amounts: I already know that the Public Service Union has no pleasure with such elements, because it always thinks only of its court councils and not of the ordinary public servants. And unfortunately this attitude is also symptomatic by Mr Neugebauer. The Public Service Union has informed its members, its trade union officials of the salary conclusion, but has not allowed them to meet, and Mr Pendl has not even lost a word about the fact that the union has not even discussed the salary conclusion, but that Mr Neugebauer has sent a letter in which it says: By consent, please report, and if you do not report, this is also considered as consent! So everything is consent. This colleague Neugebauer, who has no time to deal with his colleagues in the trade union, who has no time to discuss whether there should be an increase in the lower areas higher than in the higher areas, at least in a year, we are now experiencing as the Second National Council Presidents and as union presidents, namely in the public service – I think that is a bit too much!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6303	Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Arbitrator. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6324	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Service Law Novelle, which is available today, is a sum of important adaptations, modernisations, improvements and also administrative simplifications. A few examples that have not yet been mentioned in today's debate: The change in the cost subsidy is both an administrative simplification for public administration and an improvement which, at least, affects a quarter of all road cost beneficiaries. The business pension fund, which now also applies to contract staff, brings a private sector-like scheme, but also a better creation of contract staff compared to the status quo. With the professional maturity test, only so that this misunderstanding or misunderstanding is removed here, with the professional maturity test instead of the previous official matura, as it has been said in the folk mouth, you also get a general university access; this is also in the interest of both the service provider and the public service staff. The conversion of higher education courses into a higher education programme Public Management is also such a step in improving the continuing education and training sector. The exemption from care, the consideration of the care leave for disabled children during retirement periods also means equality with the private sector, but also a better creation compared to the status quo, because we had so far not had this in the public service. We have achieved equality between contract staff and officials in terms of terms of use or official titles, as they are called in the national mouth, and have thus achieved both reasonable simplification and equality. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this service law novel is a balanced package that brings many improvements and modernisations to the public service. The salary of 3.55 percent is, I believe, very good and very fair. We have a calculated inflation of 3.45 percent, and we are above it with the salary statement. We have thus provided a large chunks of money also as a purchasing power strengthening by the public service. For the federal government alone, this increase is €376 million. If I still charge the costs for the staff of the countries and communities, I come to about € 700 million, which are made available to additional purchasing power through public servants and their families. [[Abg. Oils: There you have to take the net sum! That's half the state!]] This is a good and fair conclusion, which takes both into account: the interests of employees in the public service, the point that they want a fair, good income, but also the economic conditions. Finally, I would like to say: The public service has highly motivated employees. With this Novelle Service Law, we will make some improvements where we can make progress. But it is also clear to us as a federal government and as a service provider that we can only maintain what it is about to provide the best possible service for citizens with highly motivated employees. This is what the public service in Austria is doing, and I would also like to thank and wish the public officials, officials and officials, nice holidays, especially those on these holidays on which we are and are free from our families, and thus maintain the lives of this Republic in many important areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6361	I would like to thank the Secretary of State. The next item is Mrs Hagenhofer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6385	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We all wish ourselves – and the population too – a modern, flexible and paperless service – yes, contemporary, paperless public service. [[Abg. Grossruck: Contemporary!]] Administration needs to be modernised, is always required. With this service law novelle, the Federal Chancellery goes very well in this direction: towards modernity, mobility and flexibility. What do I mean by that? – Specially – and the Secretary of State has already mentioned it – in the field of further training, it is really modernized as far as previous training in the public service was concerned. The employees have continued training, but they did not have the opportunity to switch to the free economy due to their continuing training. Now you also have the right to study with the professional maturity examination. The Bachelor's degree programme and the Master's degree programme are included, and the Master's degree course with personnel, financial and organizational management is an area which also makes the staff of the public service absolutely equal with the graduates of the universities, that is, academic staff. As I have already said, the point in the revision of this right of service is as follows: A person who uses this passage and makes this qualification has all the possibilities, both in the public service and in the private sector. And that's what I mean by mobility. There are many young staff who are highly motivated to take up continuing training, but in the public service there is some sort of standing up because a co-worker of the same age has the management function. The motivation to work as the second to the pension after the other, without many other possibilities in particular, has therefore remained very limited. It is with this novelle, however, that another perspective is also open. I think this is great and would like to thank all those who have pushed in this direction, because it is really very contemporary. It is therefore not only negative that we should say, but also positive approaches. But as with every law, of course, not only is everything positive here, but one also has to take some negative things that may be fixed in a second step. What seems to me to be worth mentioning, however, is that even for periods of a leave to care for a disabled child – and that is quite, very important to me – a pension contribution basis will be normized retroactively from January 1988 onwards. I think this is a step in the right direction in the public service, too, because the employees of the public service also have children who are affected and have been selected. And if this bill of care is now standardised as regards the pension, it is a correct step in the right direction. It is also positive that – that is still there, but, of course, it does not always come to the public’s attention when someone is able to mark “Fachober Inspector” and what I know which titles still have on the sign – because of this novelle now the position, for example, department head or department head, can mark. That's much more to people because people just know who they're dealing with. “Fachoberinspector” is just a degree of service, but has nothing to do with the activity or value of the individual in the outside “look”, if I may say so. All in all, I am also one of this Novelle of Service Law affected, and I am very pleased that we have now created the options mentioned – perhaps less for me now, but for the colleagues who come after me, for those who are still young. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6425	The next item is the report by Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6446	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Members on the Government Bank! Mr Pendl, you said earlier that you would invite us to support this request. – In case of an invitation, this is always the case: the one invites, but: Then who pays? I do not think I can accept this invitation because the bill will pay all executive officials in Austria. That's why I have to reject you here. One thing, Mr Pendl, has to be said: If the Socialist Group has called for 3,000 additional executive officers over the years, including resolutions from Upper Austria, from Linz – I have signed them myself – and you are now satisfied with 1,000, then I am simply going to leave for 2,000. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pendl: You forgot who saved it!]] That means you have been satisfied with minimal coalition plans. Of course, we will not do this – also for the benefit of the population, because it has a right to its subjective security. But let me come back to the item on the agenda. I almost waver in euphoria, when I think about how we suddenly had something like a free voice here three months ago. Suddenly, Parliament worked because the government did not understand how to work. At the time, we had more to do with it in two months than the government in two years. And it was something like a start-up mood in this hall when suddenly, with a free mandate, there were majority voting here, as the population would expect of the mandaters present here. [[Call the ÖVP: Chaos!]] They have made applications here, such as – I just remember –: Value adjustment to the pension price index. We have spent the absence of the waiting period for new pensioners together. We have spent the maintenance of the 7-€ ticket at the ÖBB, which had already been abolished. We have managed to raise the ceiling from 55 to 60 percent, and we have not least abolished the tuition fees during the last meeting. That too was a great success. A total package of about €6 billion was adopted here at the time, ladies and gentlemen. Contrary to some opinions from the BZÖ, we were not sitting on the SPÖ's lap, but were probably embedded in the bulk of the population, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this one did this at the election on 28 October. We are very well informed on September and equipped with appropriate mandates. What has not yet happened: The pension contribution for civil servants' pensions should be rethinked. We believe that there is an injustice here. And we also believe that Mr. Mazal is right when he says that people had to laugh at their mini-payers in the 1960s and 1970s. Now to say: Be solid and pay, that's cynical. - Yeah, I'm going to take care of him. That's really cynical! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We should make a quick change here. The so-called low-retirement pension contribution is unfair from our point of view and should therefore at least be excluded up to the level of the ASVG maximum pension, ladies and gentlemen. I am also sure that I am in good company here, because the chairman of the Pensionist Association, Karl Blecha, here is also our opinion that this barrier should finally fall, and also the representatives of the Austrian Senior Ring have called for this for a long time. I don't know about the senior government. I don't want to do anyone wrong, but I just don't know the position. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to accept our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6527	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6589	Mr Glaser is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6610	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With this novel, we decide on a number of different materials, of which no doubt the pay adjustment is the most important, and I think this conclusion is quite simply adequate. I would like to deal with a small change in the pension law of 1965 – Mr Hagenhofer has already done so – with harmonisation, alignment with the ASVG law, where we create the possibility of self-insurance in the care of a disabled child. I'm glau- Be that this was absolutely overdue, and it is nice that this will now apply in both old and new pension laws. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But I think it is still a gap to close at the other end of the life scale. I would like to give you an example from my immediate surroundings: A single 50-year-old teacher has been nurturing her mother with the care level V for five years. The reserves available here on both sides have been used up for the remodelling of the disabled. Both live on the mother's minimum pension plus the care allowance. The fostering daughter has been selected for five years, but as a civil servant has no claim to health insurance, let alone a pension insurance. She doesn't earn anything for five years, she doesn't acquire retirement periods, she has to pay for the health insurance on a private basis. To survive here is art of life, these people are really life artists. I therefore believe that it is really important to take this step, and I am glad that the government programme is intended not only to enforce the harmonisation of pensions everywhere, but also to ensure that, from the point of view of care level III, health insurance, pension insurance, no matter what system you are in, is provided for. I hope that this step will be taken as soon as possible by our two government parties. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to expressly welcome another change in this new law, namely a change in disciplinary law. I think it's right that in the event of serious errors the possibility of termination is given and you don't try to scratch the curve with shifts somehow. I would also like to say that these are really absolute individual cases and that the vast majority of officials at all levels, as I have experienced, work absolutely well and great, and often work unthankfully. I would therefore like to end by expressing my express thanks to all officials. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6667	The next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6689	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Wöginger said earlier that this conclusion was a “ giant throw” of 3.55 percent for officials. . I think Mr Wöginger has missed the subject here, because when I think about the small salaries – the colleague Ollinger has already mentioned this – I have to say that it does not look so rosy. In principle, I am concerned with a fair salary, especially with the executive. Mr State Secretary Arbitrator spoke earlier about motivated officials. I have to tell you, Secretary of State: Apparently they haven't been outside for a long time, I assume. Look at how “motivated” people are at the executive! Unfortunately, I have experienced different things. Now to the Civil Service Law 1979, which is to be amended here. – Despite some good approaches, this novelle also includes very, very serious deterioration, and once again the executive is most affected. However, I support the creation of a “flexipool” to relieve some of the services that have come into personal need. This usually happens when, as in Vorarlberg, there is a high proportion of women in the executive, who live in a relationship and eventually grow up the desire for children. If I have a lot of women on a service now, I have a big problem in the field of maternity protection, Karenz. The job is occupied, but I can't sit down. This is always very complicated, namely with allocations. I made a proposal years ago, namely that students who are expelled from the police school should be put in a pool and that these officials should be used for such services in the first few years. This means that they then temporarily stop these holes until they get a fixed position after some time. Here it is a little different: You put the people on a post, and then move them into this so-called pool, under the pretext of training people here, better integrate them into work. If someone is on a small service, of course this is a problem, because it will not experience much of the bad things that make the intervention of executives necessary. Of course, a lot can be argued under the pretext of “school training”. The problem is, however, that these officials have to pay the whole thing in German from their own bag, so from their own pocket. There is hardly any provision here for travel expenses, as is otherwise the case in the travel fee code inside, and thus it represents a massive deterioration for these E2b officials. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is especially true in large federal states. Mr Windholz has already mentioned this. In Vorarlberg this is still manageable, but in large federal states this is a massive deterioration. Or: As was planned at the beginning and now God is not coming so much, namely that one could be moved around Austria, I do not think it is reasonable. Thus, under the veil of a good pretext, there is a massive deterioration for the executives. I would also like to say something about government education or the government programme in the area of border control in Switzerland. I am speaking to something here that perhaps nobody knows, but that shows how to jump with executive officials in that country. Trainingd police officers will be relocated to the borders from tomorrow – starting tomorrow, the Swiss borders will be opened under the Schengen Treaty – and their only task is not to provide executive services, but to stamp out customs acts. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: These are eh Zöllner!]] This is the way to deal with staff! They say, “These are eh customs. ” [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] No, these are police officers who are trained to protect the citizen, that is, for security tasks, and not to stamp out files, Mr Matznetter. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is just an example of how this government is dealing with executive officials here. A clear BZO requirement is: More staff on the street! In the last reform of the criminal procedure, the executive has been introduced into an area that is normally handled by lawyers. That is, the police are now the first instance on the ground – in principle the task of a prosecutor – but on the other hand, they have the reward of an auxiliary officer. Here, I must say, there should be some change in salary, Mr State Secretary. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have already mentioned this at the last meeting: We need an all-inclusive record for the executive officers. Then it can no longer happen as it happened on my office: That a 50-year-old official who was seriously injured had had a serious accident, with €1,200 as a single parent he had to “feed” a family – in Vorarlberg, where an apartment costs €1,000! This must be borne in mind once, under what conditions these people must work here and what the reward looks like! Here I have to see that an executive, who also carries out the task of a prosecutor and is not an auxiliary officer, as we said earlier, also receives an all-inclusive record that, if he is sick, he does not “fall down” the additional fees, but that he can really exist and survive. That would be important, Mr State Secretary. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In order to obtain an adequate salary, an executive is forced to serve three to four weekends and to do many, many overtimes – 70, 80 or more. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Talk time!]] I have to say quite clearly: It should be noted that the salary is so high that an executive officer can exist with it. This allows you to promote motivation and make people restful in the ministry and not overtiring. As a result of this deterioration in this law, we, the BZÖ, cannot accept this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6771	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6792	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Oellinger, I appreciate you as a social expert, but he has not said what you submitted to Mr Krainer. – I don't think you listened attentively. I believe that the changes to be decided on in the field of service law and also the increase in salary with a calm conscience can be described as balanced – differently from those presented by some of the discussion participants in the Committee and today. It's not just a matter of deterioration. I also believe that the Public Service Union would otherwise not have approved this pact. [[Abg. Oillingers: They couldn't have!]] The employees in the public service are very well-trained and highly committed employees, as Mr. State Secretary Arbitrator has already mentioned, and they do not like anything in the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen, officials are not only in public administration, but also in distributed companies that have made headlines in recent weeks on the subject of personnel reduction and so on – therefore your assumption that postal officials are probably affected by this salary statement. Mr Oellinger, the wage increases are negotiating the postal union itself. – These are not affected by this increase in salary. These parts of the public administration, specifically post office and Telekom, have been distributed in 1996 and are then divided into Telekom, Post Office and Post Office Box by the Post Structure Act. All these companies now have to compete, and all these companies are no longer taking up new officials, but there are still officials in these companies. In recent years, this company has sometimes been played badly by the owner. For example, they were released into freedom with all the staff and left to competition. Market deregulation was asymmetric – yes, but the market deregulation, Mr. Oellinger, was carried out asymmetrically, you know. [[Abg. Oils: Freedom looks different!]] The Deutsche Telekom was not allowed to reduce the tariffs until it lost a certain market share. That's not fair. – In this we are, I think, of an opinion. This also created a problem, namely overcapacity in terms of staff. It's too little to be the owner simply to pull out and not to waste any thought on the staff. This is shortsighted, and at the same time it would have required measures and regulations with the Poststructural Act. To this extent, management cannot yet be blamed, but what happened then is not exactly creative. It was not the existing capacities to the extent that one might suspect it was put into the modernisation of the network of services, in broadband development, but it was created staff pools, into which employees were put in, more or less paid for the lack of money, and sometimes even mobbed. On the other hand, the services were bought abroad. – This is not the creativity, ladies and gentlemen we expect from managers with top salaries! Similarly, the discussion is currently taking place at the post office. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the post office is an infrastructure company that has to provide people with high quality postal services across the board. And in particular, respect for the postal partners must also be said: The services provided in a post office are not only related to the collection and delivery of letters, but also work there with highly qualified employees, the banking services – for example for the BAWAG P.S.K. – provide. Post offices are also an important communication facility in many small rural towns, and the so-called land delivery is often the only reference person who has single people on land. He not only brings the mail, he also takes prints with him and helps customers perform numerous everyday tasks. We must not sacrifice this to unhindered liberalisation; we need fair competition and equal opportunities. We must not forget this when we discuss again whether hundreds of post offices will be closed or thousands of employees in a career center – where career and development are not a trail and there is no chance for the future to be seen – will be put or dismantled. I already know that the development of new business areas is not easy, but what do we have well-paid board directors for? If everything were so simple, we could also sit there in front of housemasters – my respect for housemasters; they might be even more creative. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was a strange statement now!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Nothing against housemasters!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Cleanliness in politics!]] – Mr Scheibner, speak up, then you have a microphone, and then you will be easier. Our solidarity today applies to the employees of the post office and the staff representatives who today point to the precarious situation with a warning strike. Mr Herbert von der FPÖ has said that he is responsible for the post office for the maritime bus. – Mr Herbert, this is a small mistake. The mailbox hasn't been in the post for years. [[Abg. Herbert: The mailbox!]] I am already in favour of taking the board of directors to responsibility, but only in the areas for which they are actually responsible, and not for any more. I mean, we already have to look at the fact that, especially in economically difficult times when unemployment is rising, even in close-to-state companies, creativity does not remain on the line and is demarcating in cancellations or driving a slump in rural areas. The result would be a thinning of the rural area, eventually a dying of those regions – Mr Mayor, you will give me a right – which have no well-developed infrastructure and no high economic power. And no one will really want that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6906	Next is Mrs Mag. Musiol. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e6927	Ladies and gentlemen! Dearly interested in the galleries! We will not vote in favour of this government proposal. Actually, I just wanted to speak here today to the asylum court and to the disciplinary procedure, but you, Secretary of State Arbitrator, invited me – until provoked – to say a little more about the salary adjustments, because to call them balanced and fair, is lacking some understanding of my part. I would be interested in how you want to define this balance and this fairness. In fact, my definition is socially balanced and socially fair, and – as my colleague Ollinger has already explained here enough and impressively – this is not the result of these salary statements, as there is no support for those in need of it, for those who have low incomes are as well taken into account as those who have high incomes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this regard, I feel that I have a Déjà-vu experience: A week ago we discussed the government agreement here, and I was already looking for the social conscience of the government parties. – This is not to be found here either. I had hoped at that time that you would only have given it up in the pledge loan where you could trigger it again. I'm still waiting for it, and we'll see if Christmas is successful. So, first of all, I would like to dedicate myself to the asylum court. We have today an amendment to the Asylum Court Act – shortly after this law enters into force. This reinforces the suspicion that it is a buffer. The law was passed in a night and fog action, and only a few times later the effects of this law are worrying. There is a considerable delay in the file, which has increased. According to UNHCR, over the period of 1st. January 2008 to 1. In October 2008 the first and second instance decided by 9 percent fewer cases than in the comparison period 2007. I wonder when action is being taken and when the calls for help – certainly also the President of the Constitutional Court – are taken seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also intended to fix a gap in procedural law which would have actually been favourable to the parties concerned. The legislator, obviously without wanting to do so, has provided more rights for those concerned through a reference to the Administrative Court Law. If this passage is now deleted, this will lead, inter alia, to the failure of the parties concerned to have a chance to apply for procedural assistance. At the same time, however, the BMI has recently halved the very low-cost legal advice for asylum seekers by NGOs: Instead of €438 000 for 2007, there are only €221 000 for 2008. – I wonder, too, how this should work. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's right!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Ask yourself!]] Now I would like to say a few words about the disciplinary right of officials: In principle, we welcome the changes that are envisaged. It provides for an equivalent consideration of both special and general preventive considerations. This will respond to a constitutional court's knowledge, which is removed from the principle of unbearability. Occasional event was a postage official who saved cash of 50 € to 500 € multiple times. There was a discharge. A later Constitutional Court of Justice has, as it were, returned to a different case law. It's about the case of Bakary J. – all known. There four WEGA officials were sentenced for severe body injury, abuse and infliction of pain. At the same time, disciplinary penalties were imposed, which were later reduced and converted into fines of up to five months' wages. The Administrative Court has stated that too much has been taken into account for mitigating and special prevention reasons and that a new decision must be taken. That is, in this case, of course, a general preventive design and a general preventive decision is important. However, it is important to wait for the relationship between the two cases – a post-officer gets into the cash register and avoids between €50 and €500, and four WEGA officials abuse and torture a booster – to actually get a new meaning and to be measured with varying dimensions.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7005	As the next speaker, I can give Mrs Heinisch-Hosek the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7027	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Although I am not yet formally responsible today, I should like to say a few words to the public service because I myself come from one of the professional groups concerned. If I've needed anything from a district headquarters lately, I've noticed how service-oriented, fast, efficient and very citizen-friendly one is there. [[Abg. Scheibner: With you already!]] I therefore think that the public service itself is a reliable partner who operates service-oriented and service-oriented, and people are in the foreground. Perhaps another example for you, Mr Haubner: Two executive officials from my home community recently saved a man's life in a traffic control, who had suffered a brain hemorrhage on site and lost consciousness. That is to say, the people employed in the public service are working for us citizens, no matter in which professional group they are attached. In order to address this, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Oellinger: I mean everyone, when I address a new right of service, and I am convinced that we can do something for everyone, too, if we or, better said, I deal with the social partners about the need to develop the new right of service, not for staff, but for all staff, and I am convinced that we will succeed. It is also undisputed, ladies and gentlemen, that the public service is a model – in many ways. For example, we have now employed more than 1 000 apprentices in the public service, in the Federal Service – in more than 50 teaching professions. At this point, I would like to express a very warm thanks to all the trainers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The federal government also improves from year to year in the employment of people with disabilities. This means that both the apprenticeship training and employment of people with disabilities are further advanced in the public service. Another area that I naturally care about is the promotion of women in the public service. We are on the right path, although I agree that we need to take some more essential steps and also become a step forward and that this path is of course also capable of expanding. Finally, a few words on the Novelle Service Law: Much has already been said about this. I would like to inform Mr Hagen that women in the public service are not a problem. – Or maybe I got it wrong, and he meant women in executive service. I believe it is important that we create compatibility models that allow men and women to carry out their service in the public service, especially in the executive sector. We want to get more women in the field of executives. I am already looking forward to this 3.55 percent degree. In my opinion, increasing salaries is a fair solution, and I am convinced that it will strengthen the purchasing power of employees in the public service. In my opinion, both sides have shown the necessary level of attention. At this point a very warm thanks to the negotiators. By the way, I look forward to all the employees of the public service who will work with me. Good luck! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7088	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next speaker is Mrs Riener. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7110	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House and in the Gallery! I would, of course, like to refer to the salary statement just as a staff representative in the City of Styria. I am very happy about this and I also thank Fritz Neugebauer for the implementation of the 3.55 percent for the public staff – namely not only for the 3.55 percent, but also for the fact that the negotiations were completed so quickly. I'll explain why. In the countries, it is traditional that the federal accounts are mandatory for the countries, insofar as the negotiations in the countries begin only after the federal accounts. In order to be able to carry out the accounts on a timely basis before the end of the year, up to 15. All negotiations in the countries have been completed on 1 December and 15 December. January the salaries on the accounts can be. We in Styria had two rounds of negotiations and – thank God – took over the salary in this form. This did not mean going into the country day and was able to take on this good conclusion of 3.55 percent by government decision. Fritz Neugebauer, thank you very much for your work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say something to Mr Öllinger: [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] I have been allowed to participate in the salary negotiations in the City of Styria for some time. I looked at the statistics. Since 1994, only four times the national staff's finals have actually been increased by percentage – otherwise we had base amounts, inflation fees, one-off payments. So please take a look at exactly what this is really like. I would like to mention something that a colleague – the Board of Management of the Hospitals – has told me, namely, that by the amount of the base, the salaries in the individual classes are already so much collapsing – for example, in the case of nurses compared to the qualified staff – that the difference grossly is only more than 150 €. It must also be taken into account if one is to practice such criticism. That means, look at the pay curve and see how fair that is then in further succession! I would like to mention a few points from the Novelle Service Law. In the case of occupational employee care, the remuneration concept for contract staff members was coordinated with that of the employee pension law. There has so far been a concept of remuneration for contract staff, but the special payments have not been included. In this new form, this is definitely an improvement for contract staff. In the case of the cost grant, it is new that it will automatically be taken over for all those who can benefit from this cost allowance again. That's already mentioned. The retroactive recognition of leave periods for care of a disabled child and also the interruption of recreation leave in the event of care-free and in the event of a sick person are also very welcome. One more thing that I am particularly pleased about as a social worker: It is only a small part of this novel, but in the future judges and prosecutors are highly valued in training. In the future, there will be two weeks of practice in youth offices or in victim protection organisations. I am very happy and believe that this will also improve communication in these professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7158	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7183	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Riener has claimed that since 1994 only four percentages have been increased and thus linearly increased. [[Abg. Prince: State Service!]] – That’s wrong! [[Abg. Riener: In the Landesdienst Styria! Listen!]] I do not know the figures since 1994, but very well since 2000 and now I say to you, Mrs Riener: In 2002, 0.8 percent were linear, 1.85% linear in 2004, 2.3% in 2005, 2.7% in 2006 and 2.35% in 2007, and 3.55% in 2009. That is, in recent years alone, six linear percentages have been increased. [[Abg. Riener: Landesdienst Styria!]] However, the public service or service union is very likely to know other instruments, namely the uniform fixed amount, the minimum base or the single payment, but they are very rarely used in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7246	Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7267	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member, Mr Gaßner, for what I promised. This has been forgotten by Mr Pendl, here... [[Abg. Pendl: Thank you all!]] – Of course, but I promised, that’s why I want to repeat it. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] He has been forgotten by Mr Pendl; he has thanked many, but not the honourable Member, Mr Gaßner. The mayor must also be held up accordingly, which is important for the public service. This reminds me that an official service is still open. And it is also very appropriate that Mr Neugebauer should sit at the Bureau. He already smiles mildly because he knows something with a certain degree of certainty. He cannot be angry at all, and I have been negotiating with him a few times to reform the civil service law. He's always given me the right thing, but he always said we'll do it next time. – And “the next time” is not now. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: An excellent negotiator!]] – Really a perfect official representative, because he cannot be angry either, but we are still waiting for important reforms. I am now with the countries and communities. For example, it is about harmonising the rights of services, especially the pension rights of the federal, state and local authorities. There was once. [[BZÖ and Abg. Prince.]] That's where we changed the Constitution, and that's what we could do again. This would be an important measure to ensure justice, for an official in the Federal Service should not be treated differently from one in the national service. In We have done a lot of work in the Federal Service on harmonization, much also on comprehensible reforms; this has not yet been done at country level. First point. Second point. We have always called for the abolition of Pragmatization. I know that this has been implemented in some areas. Nevertheless, there are some areas where it is impossible to explain why an official should be unannounceable and incorruptible. [[Abg. Bucher: It's just different!]] Third point. Interestingly, the B-Matura has been abolished in this novel. I don't know if that was necessary. But what we have not done – and you know, Mr President Neugebauer, we have already discussed it at the time – is to solve the question of graduates of higher education courses. It's still open. We do not have the question of whether they are now classified in A or still being treated like a maturant. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Flexible Service Rights. Again, Mr President Neugebauer, you know, we have been discussing, for example, for the executive, for the customs, for the federal army to really create a right of service, where one does not need these rigid regulations, which are not adequate, where the young soldier rises at the age of 18, then becomes an official and calculates how much he will get at 65. That doesn't work anymore, and it doesn't meet the needs either. And what do we do with young people to create incentives for them to go to public service? – That would also be interesting. It used to be like: You don't have anything at first, but you get a nice pension for that. That is no longer what is necessary to inspire a young person for public service. We need young, committed employees, who are there, no question at all. The official is much better than his image. And that's why you should do something accordingly. But it would also be interesting, for example, to flatten the pay curve, that the young official deserves more at the beginning and in the further career the increases are lower. This too would be an interesting measure, but it is still open. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I would also like to say to Mrs Riener: You said you were negotiating in the Styria. – So, when does the harmonisation of service rights come? – You've finished it, you say. [[Abg. Riener: Have we finished!]] I have heard that in Styria there is not yet the pension right to be observed in the ASVG. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Neugebauer, when do we finally come to these negotiations to discuss all these open points – not only to discuss, but also to implement them? [[Abg. Bucher: Arbeitskreis! Special Commission!]] We would very much like to join you here in the House to form a majority for such a forward-looking civil service law novelle.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7390	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7411	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Scheibner, I hope you do not need too much explanation in your group now because you thanked me. However, I am happy to be at your disposal when it comes to highlighting the great achievements of the mayors in our Republic. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of BZÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Just more thank you!]] – I just talked about the emphasis, not thanks. I would like the officials, ladies and gentlemen, to see it looking so much tomorrow that they are thanked and that their great achievements are highlighted. I have a little suspicion that no one in here dares to attack even an official or an official, but in the public and at other levels of discussion it seems quite different again. We all know that the image of officials is not exactly the best, although – and I agree with my colleague Scheibner – excellent work is being done at all levels, starting from the communities to the High House. Especially in our role, in our profession is a model example of how much we depend on good officials. If I didn't have really excellent employees in my community, the work would be much more difficult, if not impossible. This is the same for us here in the house. If our consultants were not there in the clubs and in the house and supported us, then we would certainly not be able to do such a highly qualified job, as we hopefully do. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, when you hear the news in the morning, you already have to do with officials. Did you notice that in the last few days, because of the studies that have now been published, the school teachers have come up with quite a talk? – Teachers, Mr Oellinger, have also come to speak, including teachers. [[Abg. Oillingers: Not the teachers, but the education politicians among the goers!]] I just wanted to say, Yesterday it was the folk school teachers who were guilty, today it's the education politicians at Ollinger's and otherwise a few more. But today it is also the parents who are accused that the folk students are not better. So the officials are in the middle of the public focus here. I think they're doing their job very well. Another example from the news is the postal officials. We've already heard that they're negotiating their own pay schedule. Nevertheless, in part they are still officials who are committed to maintaining their jobs. I would like to join with Mr Kuzda's statement and, from this point of view, I would like to assure our solidarity and support to the postal officials, because it is not justified for them to be informed by the media that thousands of jobs are being reduced. And neither is it all the same that postal offices are simply closed, which are very important for rural areas. I would also like to have said that here. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the salary accounts. Mr Oellinger, I thought earlier when you said – and your colleague Musiol meant this too – that the salary is unfair, it would be unsocial: What would you have said, Mr Colleague – I would still be interested – if the official's salary were above the conclusion of the other trade unions? That would probably have been impossible and a piggy. – A little bit of a relationship should be allowed to apply even if you are slightly criticised out here. A sentence on the education measures contained in this novel. It is quite excellent that high-school courses are now possible instead of these ascent courses and that there are career-leaving exams instead of the official ascent exams. But what scared me a little, Mr State Secretary, is: If there were only 20 who could attend this ascent course, but are now 50 participants in the Bachelor's degree course and 40 participants in the Master's degree course, then you should consider further in relation to the sum of officials in order to be able to offer more training opportunities and – that would be desirable – to distribute these training measures equally at all levels. Officials – I know that the countries are doing this for the communities and that this is nine times different across Austria – in basic education, everyone should actually be able to enjoy the same training. In this sense, I wish the officials once again that they will be praised tomorrow as they are today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7473	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7494	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr Scheibner. - I don't see him right now. [[Abg. Scheibner makes himself felt by showing up.]] That's from the old clothes collection. Mr Collegue, you meant that public service should be made more attractive for young people. I am in favour of any increase in attractiveness in the public service, but we are currently conducting a police course in Upper Austria, in which 25 planning posts are registered, but for which there are 600 candidates. I think that says that the attractiveness of public service for young people is quite given. However, I would also like to say something about Mr Oellinger's comments. As far as I am concerned, what I am now saying here regarding the amount of the base or 3.55 percent linear increase in salary in the public service is concerned, I am also standing. At some point I would like to have an answer from you to whether it would be fair for the better-trained official to have more qualifications and more responsibility, to receive less salary increase than other colleagues in lower-use groups. I think one thing: You should not do bad to our President Fritz Neugebauer on the sign of the public service, because the public service knows what he has in our Mr. President – in all his activities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention something else. Dear friend Werner Neubauer, it's true we need more police. Thank God we get 1,000 more cops, but it could be more and more, and you'd be right for that. If we had written 3,000 into the government program, you would demand 5,000, and that alone for your city of Linz. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true at all!]] But now I have a special desire to replicate the comments of Mr Hagen, who is himself a police officer in Vorarlberg. Mr President, I think there is satisfaction in the executive service. It could be more and more, and it could always be better. It's not all perfect, but, as I mean, a lot is good. I'd like to draw on my district. All the services were newly built, now also the so very desired new vehicles come, we are well equipped. Remember when you were trapped! When I went to the police 15 years ago, to the Gendarmerie – winter coat heavy, carabiner M1 and nothing else; so we are impressed! 15 years have passed – and we are most modern equipped, there are good goods on the PIs, and that should remain so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One more thing, my dear colleague. I like the “Flexipool” because when I was evicted at the time, it didn’t mean that I came home to my place of residence. I had 150 kilometers from my place of residence to get the service. And the “Flexipool” is there to improve the training of young officials, not to send them to the periphery, where they can’t learn anything after the theoretical training. With this “flexipool” you can in truth also respond well to individual crime fields in constipation centres. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] To the debate on all-inclusive content that you have initiated, Mr President. I think – and I speak to many colleagues – that this tax-saving low basic salary, then based on a good final salary, is wanted by officials with supplements and additional services. Of course, it is always discussed, but only if you have a tragic, long-term illness. There we must make common rules. Otherwise, it should remain for the most part as it is, for the salary is good in public service. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7563	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 30 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever approves the draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert, ladies and gentlemen, on the cover of the additional charges. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval of this motion for a resolution. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Neubauer, ladies and gentlemen, on the withdrawal of the pension contribution up to the level of the ASVG maximum pension. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval of this motion for a resolution. – The request is rejected. [[11:58:04]] 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (4D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (2. Social security amendment law 2008 – 2. SVÄG 2008) (27 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7637	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7665	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! The present government template, which we are now debating and will also decide, and I ask you to vote in favour of it, is actually a follow-up to equal treatment. As you all know: We have increased pensions as early as November, but it has been forgotten – and therefore this after-treatment of equal treatment – to increase the compensatory allowance rates even as from November, from 747 € to 772.40 €. Furthermore, all cash benefits from accident insurance will also be increased, including from November 2008. The accident insurance benefits are the accident pensions themselves, but they are also the benefit-related amounts of accident insurance. And that's the day money again when someone's in a rehabilitation facility. I would ask you to agree to this government template, which is a repair, so that something can also be done in the field of day money, but also to the beneficiaries of benefits from accident insurance equal treatment. I am therefore seeking your votes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7701	Next, Mr. Dr. Sonnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7722	Mr President. High house! On the one hand, the current government proposal concerns the adjustment of accident pensions and other cash benefits from accident insurance and, on the other, the clarification of the adjustment of the compensation rates. Actually, this is already being done. We have the compensation entitlements with 772 € as a single guide and with 1 158 € as a family judge. 3.2 per cent had actually been proposed by the Commission on long-term pension insurance, 3.4 per cent have finally become, starting from 1. November 2008 and up to an amount of €2 412, and there you have then transferred to a fixed amount of €82.01. The total package is €1.5 billion. If you calculate the impact of the tax reform, then you can really say that more money is available for pensioners in 2009, starting from November 2008. This is a right and good measure at the right time, especially in view of the current economic situation and given the forecasts we have just received. Let me also briefly refer to the debate on pension schemes. It is true that, on the one hand, we have the obligation to have at least 40 percent shares in the field of future security, namely the relationship between stock exchange capitalisation and gross domestic product, where a certain percentage cannot be exceeded. With regard to the pension funds, we have the guidelines in § 25 Pensionsskassengesetz. And we have also committed a minimum income guarantee, which, however, covers only the performance phase and provides for a maximum of 50 percent shares, while as the second model, we have a maximum share of 70 percent without a minimum income guarantee. But whoever knows the practice knows that the pension funds have had a maximum of 40 percent. In recent years, this share has fallen to 30 or 20 percent respectively. Now, some pension funds are available with 10 percent. It should also be noted that: There is currently no capital guarantee, but there must be only 1.6% in relation to the last 60 months. The trade association is now considering an investment and risk community where no shares are offered. This is then a clear junk simulation with the interest rate landscape, but of course the risk is significantly reduced. That is, the pension funds are superior to what you can do. It is, of course, appropriate that the legislator should also consider this. There has already been a similar guarantee on capital in 1990, but with a very low interest rate, as you may know. I believe that we should strengthen the second and third pillars by considering models by which we can achieve that the citizens do not lose faith in the second and third pillars, but are quite prepared to increase the supply of the future in these two areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7759	Next, Mr Neubauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7780	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I would like to say, first of all, that it is for us liberals an act of decentness and of course that the adjustment of pensions is now also realized in the case of accident pensions. I think it is a matter of course that we should reorganise this because the effects of the last regulation were unfavourable. That's why it was really an act of need to turn this minus into a plus. I have already mentioned today that in the last 18 months we have brought a lot of things to the elderly in this House that we can be proud of. But it is not done yet, what is at our heart, and I would like to mention some of it now. Unfortunately, we have had to find in the government programme that the Pensionist Price Index has not become a permanent scheme, but that it was a unique derogation. This is also contrary to the intentions of the Senior Council, which in several decisions has repeatedly called upon the Pensionist Price Index. We are also calling for an incentive for companies to make it possible for older people to work longer because the experience of older people, as has been shown, can be very valuable for businesses and can bring success. We will make a request which will have an additional wage reduction. In particular, he should help women to ensure that they do not always conclude that the employment rate in women can be increased. I am particularly pleased that in the last few weeks, many have joined our demand to bring the pension funds to the point that they do not, as in the past, carry out speculations with the funds of pensioners. It must not be true that the money of those who have spent many years in the pot will be rejoiced on the speculation market. These people didn't deserve it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In its statement yesterday, the Council of Seniors took this request from the Freemans to ask the National Council to accept this request and to create legal basis for it. I do not fully understand the comments made by Mr Krainer, perhaps he can explain this even more precisely in a second speech. He said that for the SPÖs only the first pillar of the pension scheme would be in question. I am here with you, Mr Deputies, but I am Ask yourself what the second pillar is like, how you imagine the further procedure. In the government programme we have had to find a modified form of pension automatic. It seems that the ÖVP has been enforced in relation to the SPÖ. We have already warned during the last legislative period that this automatic pension system will really be implemented with all the associated horrors. We saw at that time that it seems that only more is going on automatically, that Parliament, with its mandates, is obviously to be eliminated, that people should no longer rule, but the computers. A daily has noted: First comes the automatic health system, then the automatic pension system comes, then the automatic discharge comes, and at the end it will come to a government automatic dialing system. – That is exactly what happened, ladies and gentlemen, then! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have also become unfaithful in the ‘hackler rule’. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7875	Mr Neubauer's request is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7936	Next word: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e7957	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister, I am pleased that you are now present and that your appreciation is not only expressed to Parliament, but also to your appreciation for the topic of'safening pensions'. This draft government is one of many repairs that are absolutely necessary, and I would like to say in advance that we will, of course, give this agreement by the BZÖ, because this will correct the injustice that exists between accident pensions and other pensions. But there are still many inconsistencies from the BZÖ's point of view as regards pensions: Inconsistencies in the tax system, inconsistencies as regards one-off payments, but also inconsistencies as regards certain groups. I would like to raise four points in this regard. First point: Insurance of pensions. . In the government programme, there will be a statement of intent on ensuring the value of pensions, and this can be absolutely underlined. But credibility will be limited if the government programme says that the pension price index is still being examined. I remember that before the last election in this House, there was a five-party request, in which we all knew about it. Now it says: It's being checked! I hope I do. You do not misinterpret, Mr Federal Minister, when I say here that you have said that you do not think anything about a pensioner price index. In my opinion, this means an uncertainty for pensioners. Maybe you can clarify this today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second point: Hackler's regulation; my previous speaker has already mentioned this. – The government programme states that from 2013 onwards there will be a control system – whatever one understands, that is to say, for whom it should be possible. The SPÖ's election programme states that the principle of “45 years for men is enough, 40 years for women are enough” and that you should be able to retire free of charge. In the last folder of the AK Upper Austria this is also set up as a central requirement. I know that in the Chamber of Labour all the political groups have agreed to this regulation. I would now like to know what is really happening in the next few days. You, Mr Federal Minister, said nothing today in an interview on how the long-term insurance scheme will continue or what is foreseen in this regard. - I mean, that's a little bit! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The third point concerns a group of women – around 200 000 women in Austria – who are now over 65 years old and have raised children and nursed family members who have provided benefits that are extremely important to our society. These women today are ill-treated or have no pension at all. And in this respect, in the government programme, I actually miss all that would be necessary. There is no word on what could be done for these women. [[Abg. Krainer: Why didn't you do that when you were in the government?]] We from BZÖ have made numerous requests in this regard during the last legislative period. All these applications were rejected by ÖVP and SPÖ. But I am very glad that there is at least a federal state in Austria, where you do something for this group of women, namely in the social model country of Carinthia. There the so-called mother's money is already paid out to these women. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I now ask you, Federal Minister for Social Affairs, to consider what social benefits could be granted to these women. As I know, the debate on the need-oriented minimum security has not yet been concluded, so there is still the possibility of providing social benefits for these women within the same framework. [[Abg. Krainer: What have you done for seven years?]] The fact that you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, are capable of learning shows that in the government programme it means that in future pension insurance contributions for caregivers from Stage 3 will be taken over by the Federal Government. In this context, I recall a request from the BZÖ on this subject, which we tabled in June 2007 and which you unfortunately rejected at the time. But I'm glad that this is coming, because that would be a real step. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Fourth and last point I would like to address is the one-time payments paid this time in November in addition to the pension adjustments as a so-called cost compensation, similar to the heating allowance. We have all agreed to this measure here in the House, because we know it is necessary, because every euro is particularly valuable for the pensioners of small pensions and is turned around three times by these every euro before it is spent. For this reason, such one-off payments are quite, very important. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We told the pensioners at the time that they received a one-time payment of €150, graduated up to €50. You yourself probably know from many e-mails and from many calls that the disappointment has been very great, than from the 150 €, for example, only 132 € have become, because the wage tax has just been deducted, or from 135 € only 86 €. That's why bitterness is particularly great among the smallest pensioners. At this point I have to say again: In contrast, one out of one is paid in Carinthia. The payouts are already under way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's exactly what people need just before Christmas! We are therefore tabling a motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Owl:... embarrassing!]] – Your messages are embarrassing! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Krainer: It is embarrassing that seven years in the ministry all this has not been done!]] I shall now put forward a motion for a resolution calling for the single payment to be exempt from the wage tax in the future. I can now read this request, Mr President. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Your excitement shows that you really have a bad conscience. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But you can calm your bad conscience immediately if you agree to this request! Voices To this request, so that we do not make promises to pensioners before the elections that will not be held after the elections! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8111	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore being negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8168	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8219	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will agree to the proposed adaptation. Only as a follow-up note: It's a bit embarrassing! In preparation for the memorable day, a few days before the National Council election, we should have done what we called for, but some did not find it necessary, because then we could not have done as much as on the bazaar, namely a committee. I'll tell you: If the quality of social legislation, which is not due to the indebtedness of officials, but by the political activity here is partly very bad, is not to be further deteriorated, then we must – and that is a request to all here! – make proper committee deliberations in the future. That's the minimum! My request is not always to shoot out of the hip – whether it is about security legislation or not, when it comes to social legislation – but to make decent discussions. That's what we want from you! And, of course, we demand this from us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Haubner referred to something where I have to give her the right, namely that gross amounts have been announced, which have then turned out to be lazy eggs for those concerned, because no one has said: This is grossly meant, of the 150 € you get only half in the worst case! Of course, the 150 € – for which the day has been offered, it was three days before the election – should also be “sold”, because of course you waved around with the 150 €. That may be a matter of revenge. That's why: Yes, we also support the motion for a resolution, although I do not think it particularly successful, because it is almost possible to make one-off payments a principle. But in principle you are right, it should be that way – this is possible and has also been practiced in the past – that one-off payments can, of course, be exempt from the tax and also social security contributions. Yes, why not! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Now we are getting to the more difficult part, and this concerns freedom of speech and proposals. On the one hand, there was the proposal to make the pensioner price index binding; at least this was requested in the debate. On the other hand, there is the proposal and also the request to make the pension contribution effective for public servants only from the maximum limits of the ASVG. – This has long been a green demand, and we would have liked the liberals to have supported it in the past when they were in the government. But be it! We consider that this request to abolish pension contributions in the case of corresponding civil servants' pensions only from the ASVG maximum pension is reasonable and correct. I'm just asking you to measure with the same measure! What you recognize here, you are from the Freedom Party and, hopefully, also the other colleagues, is: There are small pensions for officials and much more in the ASVG area. Now I'm not talking about the pension insurance contribution. You say the same as we do in the pension scheme: Let's just pick it up from the ASVG-Höchstpension. - That makes sense. People with higher pensions than the usual social security legislation – these are currently only available to officials, to politicians according to the old pension system and what I know, where else – should pay a pension contribution. At the pensioner price index, you pretend that pensioners with very high pensions have the same problem as pensioners with low pensions. Well, hello, it's not like that! We have in Austria – unfortunately! – a social security system and pension rights, which for most people does not pay out high pensions. That is why we are here, on this point, just as on the previous point on which the officials were concerned, and Mr Neugebauer, this time as other President, had to listen to what he has concluded as President of the Public Service Trade Union, in turn, the principle that smaller pensions are, of course, higher and different. So if you take the word “pensionist price index” into your mouth, you should actually introduce two or three different pensioner price indices – and then, of course, it will be absurd – namely, the one for people with low pensions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] As a result, increases in prices in the food sector, in the tariffs or in my own way in fees – since increases have been made in recent months – are quite different from those of people with higher pensions. There are many things that we would have to look at very differently and which we can't shave over a comb at the Pensionist Price Index. This applies not only to pensioners but, of course, also to income recipients. Of course, low-income people have substantially different and bigger problems due to inflation than people with very high incomes. In general, they say: We have a distribution problem. – You save this from the pensioner price index, and I'll tell you: It's socially unfair! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are in favour of harmonisation, including those between pension systems. Let us take it seriously, but let us not try to shave completely uneven acts or events over one and the same comb! “Pensionist price index” sounds good, but is not really good for people who, as pensioners, have quite different concerns than political pensioners, namely for pensioners with low pensions. For the latter, the pension price index is as low as for people with low incomes. To bring the long-term insured scheme into the permanent right is also a requirement of the liberals. Although I do not believe that the term of office as a Social Minister should be started with silence or with “No Comment”, in principle I consider it with the Minister of Social Affairs, if he meant it as I understood it: Excuse me, “Durable Law”, that is, you want to transfer the principle that women with 40 years of insurance periods and 45 years of age can seek the long-term insurance scheme to permanent law. – This is not possible because: From 2019 we will have the effectiveness of the Federal Constitutional Act on the approximation of the different retirement age, which is point one. Furthermore, point two – we are legally obliged to harmonise between genders. In the long term, I think this is a useful thing. In other words, we will not get through – no matter where – with a regulation with which we want to maintain a permanent right for 40/45 years or 60/65 years at the age of retirement. You know that in principle, but nobody says it to people. Be honest at last! This principle of a little more honesty should apply equally to the Minister of Social Affairs or to the government parties as well as to the FPÖ. [[Call the BZÖ:And for the Greens!]] Then a little more would have helped us on the question of social policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8287	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8308	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria's social policy is not good because it is always the demands of the different parties, but it is good because it has worked well in the last forty and fifty years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you don't believe this, you can also get international comparisons. Ladies and gentlemen, with all appreciation and necessity of all benefits, but if a Republic can have a state that its social rate is 29.6 percent of the gross domestic product, then I invite you all: Bring me the next country – whether it's in Europe or anywhere else on earth – that has the same social ratio! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That means we're good at it. [[Abg. Oil: The Scandinavian Countries! You forgot! France!]] But of course there is no faultless process, you have to say that quite clearly. The pension adjustment and the pension discussion is, of course, a very great topic for getting rid of all desires and desires. I know, and we've been there for a long time. We have not had the pleasure of working with the Greens; they have not yet agreed to be in the government, and that does not matter. [[Abg. Grosz: Will still come!]] But all the other parties were already in the government. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: In Upper Austria they are quite well represented anyway!]] I've always noticed that the others said: You're not doing enough! If today and here a law is passed, then this is not embarrassing, not at all. It is only one measure in such a way that, in reality, the first decision brought an adjustment of 3.2 percent even in the case of compensation entitlements and accident pensions. In the decision on an inflationary pension increase of 3.4 percent, these two areas have not been implanted. These are being tracked today, and I think it's good. I believe that this pension adjustment of this year is reasonable, because it is completely complicated for the first time. In recent years we have had so many different calculation formulas that at the end of each one has asked: What's going on? – Now everyone knows exactly: 3.4 percent up to the amount of €2 412, and then there is the fixed amount of €82.01. What one might have to say in this context, and say, Mr Federal Minister – I am pleased that you are also following this discussion – is this, so that the real social politicians also have a subject, not only those who demand something. This concerns the compensatory allowance rates. The compensation guidelines are the measure for about 320 000 citizens. If in the coming years – just as we have done a few times in recent years – we raise the AZ guidelines a little higher, then we do not only make a mistake, but we make a very right social and social policy decision. This is about the people who really have to get through with the smallest income! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also allow myself to say the following, Mr Federal Minister, without wishing to spread it. There are the group of farmers who have the special element fictitious exits. It would be too boring to present all of this to you now, but I think we need a value adjustment here – we are basically on this element – because there is also a change in the actual applicability of this formula. In this context and in this discussion, Mr Federal Minister, we are considering something that we have written down in the Government Convention, namely a reorientation of the eligibility criteria for incapacity, incapacity for work and invalidity pensions, without endangering existing professional protection. This does not mean anyone, but we need to find solutions for people who have not yet reached the target of occupational protection. It doesn't make sense to say to these people: Wait for you to be a few years older. These are a few hundred, but those who work in social policy know that they are really poor people without a special future. It has just become tragic in her life. There, I think, we should do something just as we have done in something that works very well, with a so-called allowance for family pension insurance. Today, we have the service provider's contribution at Care Level 3, at Care Level 4 and 50 percent of the employee's contribution – these are great things that you will not find anywhere else, we can be happy about them – and from Stage 5, we have both contributions. This applies, of course, in time, and with the provision that the profession must be recruited as such, because it is a voluntary continuing insurance. We should remember whether we do not put this as an adjutative element, as in the case of child care money. I think that this would all be cheaper than an operation that we do not cover this sector, so that people do not have to leave home in the absence of home care. I think we have good approaches. Finally, I would like to take up the current topic of care money. When is care money due? – It is then appropriate to accept a disability which lasts longer than six months. We have the problem that some have taken too long to admit. This is also not beautified, which is to be criticized without a doubt. The Minister said today, I think, in a newspaper interview that he can present himself for a maximum of two months from the date of application. That is correct, that is absolutely in line with the normal course of a procedure, not a question. In my opinion, there is a need for action in that we might have to create an assessment pool. For it makes no sense today to carry out the procedure for each of the various providers of benefits – the Federal Social Office, the Länder, accident insurance or pension insurance. It would be intelligent and modern, to sum this up in a pool, in order to create a decision-making facility on the ground, according to the same criteria for all, and after all, even on the ground, so that we can manage different assessments – and the citizens are aware of it – perhaps better in the future. I wish us a lot of joy and strength in the further development of social policy in our beautiful country Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8390	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8411	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, according to the ASVG, pensions must be multiplied each year by the adjustment factor. This is also for pensions from accident insurance. We will agree because otherwise there will be inequality in this area. Under the 2008 Social Law Amendment Act, the pension adjustment, which was preferred for November and December 2008, and that for the calendar year 2009 was 3.4 percent, so to speak, with a certain adjustment factor and not with the determined adjustment factor, namely 3.2 percent. Accordingly, this is now to be repaired. I think it is all right that this is so, and we will also give this request our approval. Ladies and gentlemen, scurril is of course our entire tax system in this area. Mr Krainer, this is certainly important to you, because it would be a lot to change in the tax legislation. Because it can't be that someone who is promised 146 € in an emergency can be deducted at the same time 49 €! This will not be understood by any of the persons concerned, but that is what happened right now. In my opinion, it would have to be regulated in the Income Tax Act in such a way that the compensation recipients – and in this area it is especially the families that will be charged with €1 158 in 2009 – do not automatically pay a wage tax. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is to be regulated, for example, in the heating aid which we grant from October to April. A month 30 € – a total of 210 € – will be charged there, which makes up a bit more grossly, but it will not be taxed. It should also be in the other areas, for all compensation beneficiaries. In my opinion, the tax rate should not begin where, so to speak, the minimum pension for married people begins. This would be a first effective measure to combat poverty. I think it would benefit a lot of people paying wage tax. Ladies and gentlemen, looking at this shows that it is absurd and that there are inconsistencies in this area. For example, a person who has worked out a pension of approximately €900 and receives a compensation allowance of € 258 as a family directive, then only health insurance and not the wage tax. On the other hand, someone who has a private pension without a compensatory allowance will pay income tax again if this is just over it. That's not how it can be in the future. It should actually be true that in future pension adjustments the single payments granted without deduction of wage tax and social security contributions are paid and thus fully benefit Austrian pensioners, ladies and gentlemen! That would be an important step for the future, and I hope from this Federal Government for the future that you work there.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8468	Mrs Höllerer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8490	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As already stated by my colleagues and previous speakers, the 2008 Social Law Amendment Act sets the pension adjustment instead of the guideline 3.2 with 3.4 percent. This innovation, with the government template under negotiation today, will provide for an adjustment of accident insurance pensions, fixed amounts pending and the compensatory allowance rate with this new factor. This is especially beneficial for those people who have accident-related shortcomings or who have to have a minimum pension. This, of course, is also done in the sense of a good social security system, in which there is a need for confidence, especially for those who need social benefits, to be able to rely on this system. The government programme states that the government must immediately set up a working group to evaluate the right of compensation, including the social partners. That's good, because there's a lot to do in this area. In particular, it concerns the general accounting rules and the billing fees of the fictitious settlement. A historical model has been used in the fictitious exodus for the agricultural profession. It is accepted that flat-rate values are ultimately deducted from the minimum pension, which means that benefits are provided from the generation of transducers to the generation of transducers, which actually no longer correspond to the lifestyle and the living environment of the rural professional group, because the farm structures have simply changed, because of course the claims of farmers have also changed and some excitating benefits can no longer be provided by the generation of consignors. It is true that there is actually a reduction in the pension which is not justified when compared with other occupational groups with minimum pensions. We stand by this system, but this system of fictitious exodus must, of course, also be adapted to the actual circumstances. There really is a decisive thing to do! We reached 20 percent of the respective compensatory allowance rate next year, i.e. this flat-rate amount, which must be deducted by the minimum pensions, and I am therefore pleased that the government programme also confirms the need to deal intensively with this issue. All people must be able to rely on a sustainable social system even in difficult economic times. We have, or I should like to say, a state-political test to be carried out by this government. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you think this will bring something?- Oh, my God!]] – It is a matter of finding a balance between the provision of the necessary financial resources for the recovery of the economy and the necessary safeguarding of an orderly government budget. People expect to work on the development of the Austrian social system in times of crisis, and in this House Members will work intensively on it, as well as – of course – the government that will meet these expectations.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8529	Mr Grosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8551	Mr President. Member of the Federal Government, Minister of Social Affairs! High house! Today we have to repair something that has left us the Social, Plumbing and Panning Government, a social-political injustice, which has caused us massive disadvantages in the face of accident pensioners. [[Abg. Oillinger: Are you talking about BZÖ and ÖVP?]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] This is not least a substrate to what your predecessor, Mr Sozialminister, the then Minister of Social Affairs, Buchinger, clearly understood, namely, something to the Parliament, and on the other hand, people in that country are being disadvantaged. That is why we are glad and satisfied that this injustice will be eliminated by today's day, that the Federal Government has come to understand that the accident pensioners who have been difficult enough will not continue to be discriminated against. But I would like to draw your attention to something else, Mr Social Minister, because you are here, and that is what Mr Donabauer rightly said, I just don't know whether his group has recognised this too – the problem of the classification of care benefits at the social security institution of the industrial economy, which the Court of Auditors rightly criticized a few days ago, that some of the citizens of our state who apply for the care allowance are rightly applying! – do not even experience the notice to obtain the care allowance. I'm telling you, that's the kind of banana republic! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Shame for Austria!]] It can't be that in politics at the expense of people who need care money, of people who sometimes don't know to defend themselves, we cover the bureaucracy! This cannot and cannot be done, and I therefore ask you very, very strongly, Mr Social Minister – very intrusively! – with this entity in the social security institution of the industrial economy, but also in other social insurance institutions where such a thing occurs, “depart”. This can and must not be in a social state of the 21st century. 19th century! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I myself have received an intervention because a care benefit seeker has applied for care money, which has come from the competent doctor of SVA Graz, has carried out a “zero investigation” – “Good God and good-bye!” – and then sent a notice to her by the competent national director, who says that the citizen concerned does not receive the care allowance because of 0.5 percentage points, although she is 86 years old and can no longer provide herself. Her only happiness is that she can live in the family association and therefore her children and grandchildren support her a little. – If this woman were to live alone, God would be gracious to us all and gracious to God as well as to our character to the extent that we can even answer that such an unsituation is taking place in our state in the care money classification! Mr Sozialminister, I would ask you to take action in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8624	Mr Zanger is now speaking. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8646	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Sonnberger, I am very grateful to you that you have at least found a few words on a subject that we have been ventilating from the liberals in the committee for some time, which is the subject of the second and third pillars, but today specifically the second. An interesting aspect of this is the following – and I would like to use the plenary in order to create a sensory capacity, and not only the financial committee, in which the experts probably or hopefully know what they are talking about, but also the plenary and the public about what it is all about –: Some 550 000 people in Austria are affected who, in the course of their working life, give up part of their income, which the employer pays instead of paying them personally to a pension fund. This reduces the income of the individual and, logically, the pension basis for the first pillar, the state pension. Now, various measures by the State have caused significant disparity, in particular because the minimum income guarantee has been lost and because pension provision has been made dependent on an investment income of around 7.5 percent per year; the actual income of pension funds in the last seven years was only 1 percent. The resulting loss of pensions in the respective supplementary pensions, i.e. this second pillar, is 20 today and, if the financial crisis is now affecting the development of the markets et cetera, will be more than 30 percent in the future. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of the Federal Minister of the Hundstorfer, heading towards the exit) Mr. Minister, it's not over yet! It's still going on!]] [[Abg. Grosz: We are not a doorway!]] I am convinced that we must set a clear sign in order to make the second and third pillars attractive and make them reasonable. Just relying on state pensions is too little – and who knows whether we can afford it in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8701	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We shall come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 4 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever approves the draft at third reading, I ask for a sign to be given it. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer, colleagues, on the anchoring of the long-term insurance scheme in the permanent right. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – He finds no majority and is therefore rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the single payment exemption from the wage tax. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join the request for a sign. – He finds no majority and is therefore rejected. [[12:49:08]] 3rd. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 37/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the 1981 Export Funding Act (28 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 38/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Export Promotion Act (29 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8804	We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting is not required. Mr Grastaur is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8831	Mr President. High house! 1 billion € corresponds to the equivalent of 4,000 single-family houses, so it is a lot of money. Since the financial crisis became known, public Austria has only been talking in billions, and the population takes note of this with amazement. It has been around three months since the Austrian large banks dictated the 100 billion € bank guarantee package to the legislator. Everything had to go fast! – I have agreed, because it included the security of savings; everything else was already in the fog, because we were not really told what the backgrounds are for this so far-reaching decision. I think that some of you have had a very mellow feeling when he voted in favour of this vote over €100 billion. The reasons for this measure were as follows: At that time, it was not known how the state of the Austrian large banks is, because some of the Director-General has announced on television: It's all right, the banks have perfect profits, they're best placed, nothing can happen at all, and the money from the state we don't take anyway!, and so on. – And exactly the first to seek support as a large bank by €2.7 billion in order to significantly improve their capital situation – improve equity. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: equity! Improvement of equity!]] Thank you, Mrs. Moser! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: But this is the Export Funding Act!]] By the way, this improvement in equity in the bank security package was not originally foreseen. Why was it actually €100 billion, why wasn't it 50, why aren't it 120? – Listen to me, Mr Ikrath! – What was the risk of these banks entering the East Engagement? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] We lacked the clear basis of decision; we only knew we had to help. But this help has not been thanked. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because what does the situation look like today? . It looks so that there are currently no loans and that it is not clear under what conditions these state aid will at all be passed on to the large banks, and it is perfectly clear to us that, under quotations, “large parties” do not want to be checked by the Court of Auditors by the immense flow of money on the way. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Mr Colleague, it has not yet been a euro!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Do you want to refuse here? Do you want to hide something? Don't let the cards look? However, it turns out gradually that the large banks are ensnared in huge speculation and risky East financing operations. Why do we learn these facts only now? – I am used to making decisions only when there are clear facts and arguments, and I have undertaken to do so in the future. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: But we are talking about export promotion now!]] - I'm coming to this point. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Yes, but that is actually the main point of the debate!]] The present two legislative amendments each provide for increases of €5 billion in the area of liability. Exports are falling if we can believe the reports, and I lack any reason for this measure. Is there, for example, export contracts that cannot be executed in the absence of liability? Will the existing liability framework be exploited? Is there any export bank deposits to be revived? How do export operations develop in this area? – There was no correct answer in the Financial Committee yesterday either. I think that this information should be available to make decisions! You can be sure: I am certainly not against the export economy as a man of the economy, I am certainly not against the banks either, but I want clarity when I have to make decisions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As Upper Austria, let me say: The Upper Austrian industry contributes 26 percent to the export industry. That's good, I'm proud of it and I'm going to support it all the time. – As a Member of Parliament, I am also obliged to pay the taxpayers, and this is at least a liability framework of €10 billion, which is to be extended. It is known that liability can also be struck; more State security could ultimately lead to more risk to taxpayers. With the acceptance of liability alone, there is certainly no incentive for an economy, and I will not get the feeling that the increase in these export operations is ultimately a bank assistance package number 2 – at least what Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann said yesterday could be interpreted as follows: He was talking about addition. Today it is already in the newspaper: Banks need more billions, because they insist that there are further losses from speculation and that there must be further withdrawals of lazy loans. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Which banks? Which banks? This is an inconceivable, responsible discrimination! They raise accusations,...!]] – Mr Ikrath, read the paper, it stands exactly in there, and I say nothing else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – You can come here at any time and give us clear facts, then we will not ask these questions. I would like to conclude by saying: We are the legislator here, and we decide on the taxpayers, that must be clear, and we as legislators must not be at the nose ring of any – even from the banks! – Run around and move around. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – Only and alone we determine the taxpayers! The FPÖ can only agree to this matter if it is plausible that this is really necessary. Professionalism, Mr Ikrath, looks different, dear Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e8995	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9016	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The question when investment stops and when speculation begins is indeed a difficult one, and I think we will not solve it now and here, but we probably would not have solved it a few years ago. It was the year 2003 that the FPÖ was still in the government and has here decided on the award-privileged future provision-new, in which the following legislation was laid down: In the third pillar for the pension, 40 percent must be invested in shares – and now, of course, one could also be evil and say that 40 percent of shares have to be almost speculated. The difference between investment and speculation is very small, and I would just take a little care of the liberties if I here criticise what business banks do if you a) do not know exactly what these banks are doing – I hope the banks themselves know what they are doing, and we know that some have not known at all, but... – No! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But agree on suspicion!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: And on the basis of that we must agree!]] I'm just saying, I have never read in a newspaper – but there are a few nervous! – that further speculation losses would have occurred in banks, and I would be very careful with such adjudications and accusations. [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] To increase the current legislative proposal, namely export financing – namely the Export Funding Act and the Export Promotion Act by 5 billion each: Why is that happening? That basically has three reasons. The first is that the volume of exports as a whole continues to rise, and just as in the past, as in the past, this framework of liability has been regularly increased, because the volume of exports has simply increased, so is now necessary. – That’s the first reason. The second reason is: What are you going to do when you export something? – An unsafe business or a business in uncertain times. It is not true that the times of the world would have become more secure, but rather more insecure. In other words, companies are now more often looking for liability than they did a few years ago; or they are looking for liability for transactions for which they did not seek liability a few years ago. That is the second essential reason. But with these liabilities, it is not that I can say to the state, please give me a liability, and this one says, not a problem, but I also have to pay for this liability. It should also be remembered that these liabilities have been a profit for the Republic of Austria in recent years. They do not always have to be, and there will certainly be years where there is no profit at all – that is not a question at all – but it is not that there will be irrational any speculation transactions because the taxpayer pays anyway. On the question of whether this has something to do with banks, the third reason is: Jein. Yes, it has something to do with banks, of course, because, before we decided on the shield here, banks had refinancing their foreign subsidiaries – through export funding, in October, in the order of €4 billion. What we have done is – you too were in the Financial Committee yesterday, as you must have noticed – that we have decided on an extra committee position where we have clearly said: These 4 billions, which the banks, before it was given the screen, have been able to bear, are to be counted on the bank package, i.e. to the 85 billion! That means: Yes, of course, this also has something to do with banks, but at the same time, what happened here, we immediately added internally to the bank package, which did not exist at the time. In this respect, the current increase has nothing to do with the banks. With what banks borrow, they automatically get a detour to the bank assistance package, where they are right. And what they have done in the past is already counted there. These are essentially the three reasons. I see no reason why you should not agree. One question was how much we increase this liability framework. It is now being increased by 5 billion. With earlier increases, there have been five-billion-steps again and again, the last one was already a 10-billion-step; now we go back to five-billion-steps. There is also – not quite wrong, I think – the discussion, why you don't do a 10 billion step again. – Because we will probably have another discussion after 12 months, because this liability framework will have to be extended again because the volume of exports is increasing accordingly! If I'm already standing here, I still have to say to my colleague, Ollinger: No, I don't want to make the standards worse in Austria. I just want to prevent us from deciding on rules here – that is, emissions trading – which will result in our power plants not operating more cleanly here than in other countries and, instead, other power plants that produce less clean, in other countries taking over work and global, that there are more emissions. Unfortunately, in the first and second periods, the rules lead to this. To my colleague, Neubauer, I just wanted to say: If we look at the three pillars, then it is so that the first is the stable pillar, and the second and the third are most disasterd by the financial crisis, you simply have to look at it soberly. There are, for example, several open questions in the award-winning future provision, not just this 40 percent-must quota – i.e. 40 percent of the pension has to be invested in shares. So I wouldn't put a euro in shares for a pension, but of course everyone has to know for themselves how he wants to do it. There are also questions like: What does that mean for the premium if I reduce this quota? What about one-time deposit payments? What about the many other funding options that exist now? Here we have various possibilities in the second and third pillars, such as that some of the special expenditure, pot I, tax promotion, or that the contributions are practically pay-free – this is also a variant that exists in our system. The premium payments for the award-winning future provision-new are a third variant. Since the second pillar and the third pillar are really hardest disaster, it is, I believe, our task to look at us, what this really is worth and how we can create reasonable products here that have a longer lifetime than the award-winning future provision-new, whose lifetime is de facto five or four years. After five years, it is thought that the system does not work and needs to be changed because this product was bad. Last sentence: There are discussions on various motions for resolutions here, and I hope that at least on the issue of financial services assistants we can reach an agreement here and decide at second reading a corresponding motion for a resolution of all five parties. – Thank you for accepting the proposed Export Promotion Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9109	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9130	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time in this legislative period, as a member of the opposition, I have the opportunity to thank Members of the opposition, but also the government parties, for a successful joint discussion and work in the financial committee and for successful negotiations before and during this plenary session. The result is the following joint request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the common text of the application. I found him as follows: In recent weeks, the Federal Government and the National Council have been very successful in caring for the interests of the banks, for the interests of the export industry and, to a surprising extent, for me, for the interests of the managers concerned. In the financial committee, we have discussed very intensively a group that deserves our political sympathy at least to the same extent. This is a very, very large group of very special victims, the victim of so-called financial service providers, who, due to a legal construction which is now to be reviewed and amended, have been able to exercise a kind of trade, a so-called free trade, as it is unique throughout the European Union. – This is not only my view, but also confirmed yesterday in the Financial Committee the representatives of financial market supervision. I'll tell you how this system works. I'm describing it on the basis of the famous company AWD. The company AWD is a pyramid and resembles the criminally forbidden pyramid game. How does AWD work? At the top of the pyramid are people who have managed to register commissions from every level below. AWD is therefore so successful because it is the highest pyramid that has been established in the area of financial services in Germany, Switzerland and Austria. At the base of the pyramid it looks completely different. There are people who receive a commission advance of between €2500 and €12 000 from AWD, and then they are told: You have a family, you have friends, you have acquaintances; you sell them everything we have: Immofinanz, Immoeast and, and, and, You get a part of the commission, about a quarter of the commission; the rest goes up the pyramid, and on every level above you something remains hanging. You work for the smaller part for yourselves, for the greater part for the pyramid. However, the key to revenue is not the final commissions, but the stock commissions. The issuers – such as Immoeast and the systems behind it – pay annual stock commissions if they manage to inform the customer that they keep the securities. What's going on now? – With Immoeast and Immofinanz, the pyramid has earned a great deal of stock commissions this year. The only ones who have lost were those who, on the advice of the AWD, have kept their Real Finance and Immoeast shares. They've almost lost everything. Now the AWD says: Sorry, we have nothing to do with Immofinanz, we are an independent financial service provider, we cannot know what happens to Immofinanz, Immoeast and Constantia Privatbank! They are responsible, make it up for you with those; we have only counseled you to buy it and to keep it. Sit down, it'll be back! There's nothing left to sit there. This is not just a question of personal property, but in tens of thousands of cases it is a question of means of eradication. It's about exorcising people who have worked, saved themselves and bought a family house that AWD has explained, there's still a great exorbitant there, so cheap nobody would have bought a house. These people now know that you can't buy a house more expensive in this republic. These people are faced with the forced conversion of foreign currency credits, are supposed to pay fees – and banks and others are now demanding security for completely ruined expropriators who have bred them pyramid players like AWD. Who are these pyramid players down? These are the so-called financial services assistants under the Securities Supervisory Act. These are people who do not have training, do not examine and after a short training already advise and sell. The personality profile will be tested briefly, and then it will go to the relatives, acquaintances and friends, and then it will be sold. The staff fluctuations at AWD, at the base of the pyramid, amount to about 500 employees each year. When these people have cut off their circle of acquaintances and relatives, they are no longer worth anything – away with them! Then, in part, they are still sued so that they can repay parts of the commission advance. At present, about 400 such procedures are pending in my knowledge. There will also be the question of whether this is not a large-scale social fraud, but that is a completely different question. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For commercial social fraud!]] What are we doing now? I think it is very important – including an important day of the National Council – that we signal people that we take the victims seriously and ensure protection. We will not be able to do this on a single day with a single motion for a resolution. I am going to introduce a second motion for a resolution on the ban on pyramid playful structures in the further debate. But now it is about giving a first signal that the National Council is taking this seriously and wants the Securities Supervisory Act to be amended in a competent and sustainable manner. In my opinion, this can only be done by removing the financial service assistant, but there will probably be a government proposal in this House as soon as possible at the beginning of next year. I think it's important that we do this together, because that's a signal. This reminds me in a positive way of the wine scandal: At the end of the wine scandal are sensational Austrian wines and a healthy and clean winery. At the end of the financial service scandal – around AWD this is quite a scandal, there are certainly scandalous conditions – this initiative of the National Council for the first time can be the essential elements of a clean and transparent financial service system. That's what it's all about today. That is why there is a request from all five parties, and that is why I would like to thank you once again for the consensus we have reached in the interests of the people concerned and the victims of this financial service crisis. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As Mr Brosz rightly points out to me, I would like to make a second request: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Pilz, Mr Kogler, Mrs Freunds concerning a ban on pyramid-playing structural distributions for financial instruments The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a legislative proposal prohibiting the remuneration of mediation services for financial instruments through structurally graded commission payments in the event of penalties under the Securities Supervisory Act and accompanying the Commercial Code or, at all events, a newly created federal law on advice and mediation relating to financial instruments and ensuring compliance with this prohibition by disclosure of all commissions to customers and to financial market supervision.” Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, consent to this request is also very, very important for a simple reason – because it is complementaryly noted by the National Council: First: We ensure that these systems are no longer allowed to exist in the future. And second: We ensure perfect transparency in the commissions, because only when we manage to ensure 100% transparency, in particular in the field of stock commissions, will pyramid games in the financial services sector in Austria be simple and simply have no chance. If we make these decisions, we will be a big step further, and then we will also create something that will be very good for this National Council and Austrian policy: We have shown that it is worth putting a minimum of trust in Austrian politics, and that the National Council can represent the interests of people when it really burns and when it is really necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9215	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9377	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9398	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing export funding and export promotion, but I would like to return to my previous speaker Dr. Peter Pilz and say that this joint motion for a resolution tabled by him is, in my opinion, a very important mosaic for what we call a new Parliament during the new legislative period. That is, if good proposals come from the opposition when the opposition reveals weaknesses in the legislation – well, why don't we pick them up? I am really grateful to Dr. Peter Pilz – and I have already said this in committee – for quoting case examples at the previous meeting of the Financial Committee, to which each of us has said: This cannot be done, as a legislator, we are required to anchor investor protection accordingly in the Securities Supervisory Act. Thank you, Dr. Pilz, for the many case studies. I believe that nothing can clearly signal a need for reform, such as those examples of cases you have encountered during your research. Thank you many times; I'm not too good, this one Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Committee. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and Greens.]] I am also pleased that we have brought this motion for a resolution together, and I am convinced that we will also come up with common solutions. As a wine friend, I say: If your forecast of comparison with the wine scandal occurs, I am delighted as a wine friend, but also as a chairman of the financial committee. That's where we have a similarity of interests. But let us come to the real issue, ladies and gentlemen, on export financing and export promotion. I believe that if we decide to increase the liability framework to a value of €5 billion – excuse us, we could just as well decide an increase of €10 billion, and if it is not enough, we will have to take a second step in half or three-quarters of a year – then the part of a success story of our export industry. The export industry is a success story. If I think that only 60 percent of the wealth in Austria depends on the export economy, that every second job is secured by export activity, then thank you – first of all to the companies and their employees who keep tracking new export markets that are even world leaders in some niches. But thanks are also due to the triangle of the Ministry of Finance, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and the Control Bank, which has been carrying out this instrument of export promotion very closely for years. Thanks also to those who are always active in the service of the External Economic Organisation worldwide and who are trying to find new markets for our businesses. In this respect, the internationalisation offensive of this Federal Government, which is being continued, and the amounts spent on it are very valuable. It is here – as I believe – that a strategy for growth and employment, on which we are confessing, is not possible, especially in times of this global financial crisis, without appropriate impetus in the export economy. I am very grateful that we are also making a good decision together here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9462	Mr Themessl has been mentioned on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9483	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Another word to speak to my previous speaker Dr. Pilz: I can only give him right. He is perfectly right in all statements about the AWD and about so-called pyramid-like distribution systems. That's to be stopped by us. Thank you very much, too. I also know this from the personal environment, because we as insurance businessmen are partly direct The suffering of these speculations or of these machinations has become. But now on the real topic: Interesting is already in this export promotion and in this increase in the liability framework, in the amount of how many billions of euros the government parties actually give liabilities so easily. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Nothing is easily forgiven!]] We know that in recent years export liability has not been fully exploited. They have been increased once and a half years ago, and now they are to be increased considerably again. Thus, liability is increased, which is simply not needed. It seems to me like the bank package. There was also talk about the fact that the bank package would not be needed by the banks – and, look, all of a sudden, all of them stood up, and this liability framework is already cut off in the bank package. [[Abg. Krainer: Who said the liability is not needed?]] If you read the paper today and know that €15 billion is no longer needed as an emergency aid package, but €20 billion, then you have to cut this liability frame down to €100 billion in disk and make it available. As you would like to finance this, you will have to tell me. If you address the exports now – and we know that the liability framework has not been exploited in the past year – and you today have the forecasts of the Austrians... – Mr. Molterer, you have not even been able to give an information on the current state of affairs in the financial committee! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Perfect uninformed!]] This is the hypocrisy with which you act here in the High House. That's exactly what we criticize. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Completely uninformed!]] Look, I'll tell you something. Read today the reports of the Austrian National Bank, which clearly predicts that export operations will stagnate in the future and are likely to decline. What you're doing – you didn't think about that either! – is that you might thereby be able to promote export transactions to a much more risky extent. Then it could happen that the liabilities are going to be beating. But what bothers me most is: 10 billion € will be allocated in addition to liability frameworks. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Five!]] – Five and five, if you look at both points! [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not to be counted together!]] If, on the other hand, you consider that you want to decide an economic package II in the order of € 1.9 billion, where next year 550 – you can speak! [[Abg. Krainer: If you don't get a call to the matter, it's because your party friend is sitting up!]] Mr Krainer, if you are talking about profit, that everything you have done in the last two years leads to profits – you have said export promotions are a profit to the state – then I wonder why the accounts of the last three years have always shown a loss. You're not right somewhere! They permanently contradict themselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] But now I come to the striking point: They demand an economic package of II in the order of € 1.9 billion, of which € 550 million are planned next year. At the current hour, they turn to the speaker's desk and claim that Austria is not only a leader in Europe, but also a global leader and wants to set up one of the best economic packages at all. [[Abg. Krainer: The second largest!]] Then look at the Americans and the Japanese who make the economic promotion programmes – if you take America – of $700 billion! If you compare this population with Austria, you will need to link a business package in the order of over €30 billion. You've tied a business package with the middle-sized billion that doesn't work and is already stuffed before it even enters into force... [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is the banking package in the USA, Mr. Colleague!]] - Wait! – And you now come in addition to figures and tax reform or tax regulation towers in an order of € 2 billion. [[Abg. Krainer: Last time you said it's too big, now it's too small!]] Do you know how to give liability so easily in billions without providing the facts on how the financial committee has also been addressed by our colleague Grastaur is too little! [[Abg. May. Molterer: We did that!]] If you are unable to put actual facts on the table, what is needed and why it is needed, that is too little. If you can explain to us that you need it and can prove it, then we are the last ones who would not agree. However, we are absolutely opposed to granting liability in this order, if, on the other hand, one has almost nothing left for small and medium-sized enterprises, for small and medium-sized enterprises, and does not even know when to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9672	Next item is the report by Mr Huber. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9694	Mr President. High house! We from the BZÖ agree with this request, which I would like to mention at the outset. It's necessary, and our companies need that. However, it belongs to the whole system adjusted. It cannot be that other banks, such as Raiffeisen Bank, are involved in the central bank. It cannot be said that the executing body for the Minister of Finance who issues these state liabilities is the Oesterreichische Control Bank is owned by the following banks: It is 41 percent owned by Bank Austria Creditanstalt; 12.8 percent holds the First Bank of Oeterreichische Sparkassen AG; 8.3 percent holds Schoellerbank; 8,25 percent of AVZ Finanz-Holding GmbH from Vienna, which employs two employees and was founded in 2002; 8,1 percent has the Raiffeisen Central Bank Austria; BAWAG is involved with 5.09 percent; Raiffeisen still has its own OeKB equity company with 5 percent; the Oberbank has 3.8 percent; the Bank for Tyrol and Vorarlberg holds 3.1 percent; the same applies to the Bank for Carinthia and Styria; the Austrian Volksbanks are involved with 1.5 percent. – It is clear that the profit from the costs of these liabilities does not make the state, but clearly the owners, and these are the Austrian banks. We nevertheless agree with this package, because it is important for the Austrian economy, which, as I believe, will continue to be active and strong partners abroad in the future. But let us see how it is forgiven: In January 2008, a Tyrolean company that employs six employees sold a very innovative product to Russia to a cooperative company. This order was € 13 million. It was amazing: For six months this Tyrolean company from Jenbach sent back and forth papers and papers between Hausbank and Vienna. At the end came out, this cooperative unfortunately has too weak a credit. What one could do might be that if the Russian state gives a state liability, the company would be held liable. This company, of course, was very disappointed and could not do anything. Interestingly, four months later, a large industrial company – by the way, the bank is said to be the Bank Austria Credit Institution – sold the same product to the same cooperative. Interestingly, this industrial enterprise immediately has the I'm going to get state liability. Whether this is a coincidence or not, I do not know; such transactions belong to some kind of failure! Nor can it be that the Supervisory Board of the Supervisory Bank, which consists solely of bank managers of the Austrian banks, decides on this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Next, of course, it cannot be the case that the bank daughters of our banks are refinancing with these €5 billion abroad. If they need help there, they should apply for assistance in the relevant countries. We also believe that the relationship between the small export-oriented economy and the large industry must be financially equivalent. It cannot be that the industry alone receives a large part of these liabilities. It is clear that: The small export-oriented economy guarantees hundreds of thousands of jobs. They need it most. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Export Fund is responsible for the EU's internal European area. The export fund would have to provide the necessary capital to small and medium-sized enterprises in a transparent, simple and immediate manner. These businesses are safeguarding jobs, and these businesses are suffering massively from the current crisis. Finally, I would like to say that this increase in state liability is also necessary for the following: Export industry-oriented companies, which also have small and medium sized enterprises, need these liability very urgently. However, it includes complete system cleaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9761	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9782	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the joint success, which has now rightly been referred to as such, there are other concerns in relation to export promotion, bank financing, bank rescue and guarantee for credit customers that they also receive which. I shall then put forward another motion for a resolution concerning a moratorium in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, and in particular the more or less indebted domestic farmers. However, I am actually actually referring to this item on the agenda three and four in the narrower sense. We will vote in favour of both points – I recommend this to my group at least – despite the pitiful performance of the Ministry of Finance in the financial committee yesterday. One has not been able to explain exactly how the mechanism of action is, for which it is precisely and which is due to the additional liability framework in the short period of time. It has even been argued between officials and ministers or between the government's political groups whether it should be €5 or €10 billion. Of course, all of this has fueled our distrust. But I got stuck behind it and researched with our employees for a few hours. In relation to many others, what we have already decided here, it is actually something very useful. It is therefore a very useful thing, because there is a chance that the so-called real economy – the unword of the year, because the economy should always be something real, but we have been taught a better one this year – has something to expect from this measure, much more so than from the entire bank rescue packages until now. There is, therefore, our agreement, because we also believe that a major crisis is in danger and is in the process of roll-out and that we cannot now agree with enough value-added, job-creating measures or at least advanced instruments if such an opportunity exists. And this is undoubtedly such a chance. It should also be obvious that the liability frameworks have already been used to such an extent that it is also useful to agree on further – Mr Ikrath nodds, I can contact him in particular – even if it threatens to be specific – that is an Austrian particularity, I have chosen this – banks will also be able to take advantage of it, because it can secure the interests of banks. This is in itself nothing wrong in emerging markets. That was always good and right. Now, of course, this part may cover additional risk. The sectoral indices show that half of these G4 subsidies are in the credit and insurance sectors. This is, if you want to, the banking and insurance sector, and the other half is just a long way off to all the other sectors. This half is worth it to us. Of course, the banks would also be worth it. I now come to the second point and the banking package with respect to the areas that need to be improved. Two hours ago, the EU Commission, for its part, has approved the so-called Austrian banking package, not without changes, and so far, it has depended on interpretations of the Ministry of Finance, as I mean, and not deterioration. What do they look like, and what do you need to keep from the original bank package in reverse? – There are changes both in the so-called interest payments to the State for participation capital and in the profit collection and in several other points – I say improvements. Let's get to the interest rates for participation capital – actually, it's also a profit participation from an economic point of view –: This is about the fact that one first distinguishes between healthy and unhealthy banks, which will be difficult enough. Of course, it is reasonable for those banks that, as you would say, Mr Molterer, are in the crisis, and would actually have been healthy if these domino effects had not happened, to do otherwise than those who have already dragged in their balance sheet in the preliminary phase. This is now also ensured. How this is administered is another thing. In any case, I think that this is a major improvement. That means we have an interest rate corridor that allows to differentiate this. – First improvement. The second improvement is that if the five years have gone by – this is a very good time – these interest rates must rise, which means that either the taxpayer will get back more money – all the better – or the banks will have an incentive to recover from this inter-temporary support in the equity area and until then hopefully have strengthened their equity and not too much of their profits. For the very reason, I also think the second is very useful that we have made explicit profit limits – distribution restrictions, right! – which was originally not planned. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Payout Restrictions! That's an essential difference!]] At this point you can already see, the Austrian trend was quite clear: We protect the sector and do not look at what is with those who should actually be the beneficiaries of the banking and credit industries, namely small and medium-sized enterprises, from me also large businesses, but also the private customers. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Nothing has gone on to this day! In the SME sector, there is a credit terminal – these are not fairy tales; I am excited whether this backlog is going to resolve now – and only in the private sector. This is where I come to a related problem, which Mr Pilz has already described before, which is how those who stand at the bottom are left alone. These are, for example, those people who went into foreign currency loans and now look stupid. It is clear that we cannot cover every risk in the long term, not every private one, because that then leads to the fact that the unreasonable is always made. But the banks – and now comes the real point! – despite the counter-recommendations of the central bank to the end, foreign currency credits have applied. Do you think that's what happened to all the people alone? Do you think we have suddenly become a people of currency specialists and of people who know each other everywhere? - They've been taken! That's the problem. In reality, this is a huge consumer protection case that needs to be addressed at last! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] In fact, there is the highest need for action for Minister Hundstorfer. He has already said he wants to do something. I'm just excited to see if this will happen. [[Abg. Krainer: The core of the problem is that the foreign currency credits...!]] Unfortunately, the statements made here by the Ministry of Finance have not been very satisfied to date, but we will continue to do so, perhaps in one or two months, in order to achieve a similar, hopefully common success as before. [[Abg. Krainer: But the problem is the exorbitant!]] – Sure the racks are the problem! But who gave the people the construction for God's sake? Half of them didn't understand what she was doing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now you can say that they are themselves guilty, or you can say that there are, so to speak, small AWD types sitting on the bank switches and they have made the whole thing worse. There are enough people sitting on the bank desks who don't even understand what product they sell. That's proven to be the case now. – This is the problem, and this is something that should be resisted now – not that we are in the long run protecting all those who take a risk, but that we are now protecting those who have been driven into this situation. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It would come as far as it is, if one did not look in time at the fact that a protective shield is finally stretched up for those who really need such a one. Only the banks to protect with the argument: That also helps everyone! – that’s right in parts – and at the same time leaving those who are already affected alone, so you won’t remain credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e9918	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10022	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10043	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to take a brief look at the comments made by my predecessor: Dear Werner Kogler, it is a pleasure if you are happy today that the European Commission has approved a bank package containing everything that this House has wished to do in the decision-making of the law. Only: It was no different! The MEPs – including those of the opposition – discussed the amendment in order to have a unanimous vote. There we already have these points for the regulation authorisation in § 2 para. 5 of the Financial Market Stabilisation Act. It is precisely this regulation with exactly these points of the bank package that has been included in the Federal Law Paper as number 382 for three weeks. We said from the beginning: This bank package gives liabilities to a large extent, namely: in the field of deposit guarantee 10 billion, for the area of liability for the thawing of interbank markets 65 billion and 15 billion € for the purpose of improving the equity structure. And it was clear from the beginning: These liabilities are properly paid! The banks did not ask for anything else either. – This is exactly what is now happening. It is true that they do not agree 1 : 1 with the German regulations. There are things that we are more stringent about, and things that the Germans have called for more. For example, let's start with the manager fees: The Germans have moved into a rigid border, €500 000. – This can be completely overpaid at a small savings bank, but in another case it could be an amount where perhaps even € 550 000 are entitled. We said, however, that no credits!, and the Germans do not. One thing would be important: I do not understand, Mr Kogler, what the media are all about, and I say that Austrian politics is only pleasing to the banks, instead of saying clearly and openly: Yes, we have found a solution for the Austrian banking market, we have equally or other strict conditions, and we make a fair deal with the banks. We don't need to make ourselves here and say about ourselves, we're doing this bad. – As good as the German solution is our solution all the time, and as well as the French! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On what you said, Mr. Themessl, a few explanations: Please, the bank package cannot work yet, because only today has the approval of the EU Commission taken place. There is no participation capital with these conditions at all. – Then why should the requirements of the banks be met so far? But we have at least a reasonable edition. The Germans have only taken credit for SMEs, we have also taken private into account. In other words, the institutions using the aid must also increase the volume of credit to the old stock for private individuals. And this is reasonable, because we also need the credit provision of the house builder and others, those who have to re-debt. They say we had losses in export promotion. – Do you know what the outputs were? These were the contributions we owe to those countries that are among the poorest countries in the world. This was a contribution to the development of these countries, so that they will finally be debt-free once after they have had to repay more over the years than they have ever had revenues from those products that they have been exported. That was a good measure to clear these poor countries, but we only have to take this into account in export promotion. Export promotion is in itself a business, but it is a business that needs higher volumes during the financial crisis. Why, that's clear: If someone delivers to Ukraine, he has been able to take the risk of delivering an open bill until some time ago, even if he has not known the customer. If this one had a bank connection, possibly an accreditation, then it was okay, then you accepted it. Today you have to be insured, because you don't know if the Ukrainian bank will redeem the accreditation, you don't know if the company exists the entire time frame of payments over. And you don't know if the state of Ukraine may not be at the same stage as Iceland. Therefore, the need for export guarantees is increasing. This is precisely what we are deciding today to do with increasing the framework. Let me add an addition to this: I would have liked us to reach an increase of €10 billion. By the way, what is available so far is not €10 billion increase because it is twice the same €5 billion. One is the guarantee for the OeKB to take up the funds, the other the guarantee of guarantees for export companies. - That's just for clarification. Unfortunately, there are only €5 billion. I was hoping our coalition partner was still moving. We may very soon have the need to re-describe an increase in the law. – Why do we take this risk – this question is certainly put to the coalition partner – why don’t we make the €10 billion? After all, the banks have used this – but then we expect it to be the bank package, we have all decided yesterday in a committee statement – but the export industry needs this framework. Once again the appeal, maybe we'll get through: Let us save ourselves a situation like this, where we already had to make restrictions on export applications, because the framework has been fully exploited. In this sense my appeal – we have a few minutes left – also: Perhaps we can still make the move towards a small amendment. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10122	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10143	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter mentioned that export promotion is very likely to be in the interest of developing countries again and again; both exports supported by Austria and export guarantees made to provide services are also fuelling the real economy. As Mr Kogler has already said, we will also vote in favour of this request. There are other areas, however, where I am pleased that today, not only in the request made by Mr Pilz, but also in one that has been my concern for a long time and some others in this House, we have actually managed to make a five-party request. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that the government parties see that there are also good proposals from the opposition side, which one can very well agree with. This is a request from all five parties to introduce a financial transaction tax, which has long been a subject in this House, which we have already requested for a variety of reasons. Now there is almost an open window, an open window, to actually introduce it. If even Wifo-chef Aigerer believes that it is now an ideal moment to introduce them, then it makes sense to push this forward and insist that a pan-European financial transaction tax will finally be introduced within the framework of the European Union. I think that this would also be a good moment for the EU to set a good example and to show, in the direction of the World Financial Summit, which will take place at the end of April next year, what is possible in regional mergers on the part of the European Union. - That's the one point. The other point is that such a financial transaction tax can also benefit from money. Now you can argue about what this is to be used for. We agreed that it should be general social and environmental measures. Of course, the contribution to development cooperation would also be important, but there are different opinions in the political groups. But: Money is being lurked, and these are quite quantities that can be needed well these days. If you accept a tax rate of only 0.1 percent, this can make up around €240 billion for the whole EU 27 including Switzerland and Norway – an amount that you can really need these days! I am very pleased that it has succeeded in overcoming the resistance that it has been a few years ago and a few months ago and even yesterday in the EU's main committee. And there is a joint motion for a resolution which I shall now read out. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you also to the other political groups for having succeeded. I think it is really important and necessary to do so within the framework of the EU. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second part of my speech concerns an aspect which is less encouraging and which has also aroused public attention today. They all know about the planned construction of the Ilisu dam in southeastern Turkey; a construction that has already been controversial since the beginning of this project decades ago. My colleague and clubwoman Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, as the third president of the National Council, was visiting this area together with representatives and could already find that this project destroyed the destruction of habitat, of people, the expulsion of people, the settlement of people, that archaeological sites would also be destroyed, that flora and fauna, which are unique, would be destroyed – all due to a project whose planning dates back to the 1980s. To do this, we would have to use different means to generate electricity today. In March 2007, the Austrian Federal Government, the Finance Minister, commissioned that the Control Bank grant an export guarantee for the supply of turbines, electromechanical equipment for the Turkish hydropower plant in the volume of just under € 285 million and thus guarantees it. The risk is borne by taxpayers. At the time, pressure from many organizations and also from us here in the past – as often as we have addressed this in the National Council – were agreed upon with the Turkish government, numerous requirements. – These are still not fulfilled! We even had to find that Turkey has already begun to build, although these conditions are not yet fulfilled, although Austria and Germany and France have put an ultimatum that will expire the day after tomorrow. It says that if the conditions are not fulfilled until then and this is also verifiable, then Austria, Germany and Switzerland withdraw from it. It had to be noted lately that the first thing is already being built, that the construction site is locked down, that people who want to go there, although there is no official start of construction, are also being held in prison in the short term. This has had to be noted by representatives of non-governmental organisations in the last few days and weeks. Even in the protection of cultural goods, despite numerous commitments in recent months, nothing has improved. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, anything other than an immediate exit from Austria from the Ilisu project would be a scandal. There has been an issue of ECA Watch this afternoon, today The control bank had been occupied early, but could also hold a conversation with control bank chief Scholten. He said that it was very unlikely that Turkey would end on the 12th century. He's getting a go on December. So the issue of ECA Watch. I very much hope that the control bank and also the finance minister, in whose representation you, Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, are sitting, will stick to this and also that it is really important not to equip this dam with Austrian funds, not with guarantees that Austrian citizens will then have to pay, and immediately get out of this project. Everything else would be a scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10282	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10445	Next item is the report by Mr Jakob Auer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10469	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very rare, I admit, that it is possible to see and support two requests made by members of the opposition in such a positive way. I would like to expressly say that Mr Pilz's report on financial service providers and Mr Lunacek's report on financial transaction tax are absolutely positive. Perhaps this should also be held in Parliament's chronicle, because it is very often said that the opposition has no proposals, and on the other hand, if it makes a proposal, the government will ignore them. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens]] Today, we can take a positive stand for a living parliamentaryism that history runs differently. I think that should be seen. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graeundauer, I appreciate You so much that the accusation is almost a bit strange to me, although yesterday it was expressly stated that until yesterday – and I say until this afternoon – no single request from a bank regarding support from the bank package has been received. They claim here that they would have enabled the banks to do so. Mr Treichl had sought €2.7 billion – literally – although this was not true, because it was not possible until this afternoon, because it had not been approved by the EU until then, and it would not have been possible to do so without approval. Secondly, The banks would not have thanked it, you have literally carried out that the loans would not be made available; also literal quotation, I have written. I'm a little disappointed. If you already claim that the Austrian banks do not provide credit to SMEs, you could at most make this accusation to the German banks. For in this country one has explicitly stated that these areas are returned to the market, literally. And these German banks have participated in American financing. What came out of it is seen. The Austrian banks are still very likely to lend credit, but they also have certain risks to take into account. You said yourself literally that you were a decent merchant. I confirm this to you, because your career is also marked by it. But then you must also admit to the banks that they carry out a proper credit check in the sense of the ordinary merchant. And if it's true that companies don't get credit, then there are two reasons for this: Either they have a lousy balance sheet, a very bad balance sheet or a bad bank. If it's second, you should change the bank, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grain Duration: Which one?]] – I leave this to the general public; I know an excellent one in Upper Austria, Mr Grastaur. Ladies and gentlemen, something else to get to the point of the export financing law. If you know that €286 billion will be generated in Austria, of which 4 190 000 will have bread and work, and the export industry will reach €171 billion and of which 2 510 000 will be able to live, I wonder how you can only think of not providing this so important economic pillar in Austria, the export industry, with the appropriate framework. It may be that some critical remark is appropriate, but if you consider how many workers can be secured by this, I wonder why you can't go along with this. This attitude of the important Austrian export industry will be made clear, who is behind their legitimate concerns, how important it is for the Austrian economy, for the Austrian workers. If we are proud of the Austrian export industry, it can be seen! Austria has especially benefited from export opportunities in the context of the enlargement of the East. We should also say a special thank you to the trade delegates who are doing excellent work in the world's foreign trade agencies.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10512	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10533	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to address two of the motions for resolutions tabled, namely, those relating to financial transaction tax. I am also very pleased that we have created a broad consensus on this issue. I think it is a very important issue. We also have a commitment in the Coalition Programme to act at European level to ensure that we implement this important measure. But I know from experience that with a five-party proposal in the back, it is also easier to fight for it and to argue for it at European level. Unfortunately, we are still the only country in the European Union in addition to Belgium and France, which is committed to a transaction tax. But I believe that it is really important to use the current economic situation to continue to win allies on this issue and to see that we are taking this momentum and, on the one hand, to achieve money for important international issues, such as development cooperation or climate protection, but also for European tasks, but also to make a small contribution to raising the financial markets that are relatively outside the margins and bands. I would like to mention that it is the third legislative period in a row in which we have such an all-party proposal on this subject, and I believe that as Austrians we can be quite proud of this pioneering role. Secondly, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lunacek on Ilisu. It is quite clear here that the conditions have not been met by Turkey, and also by the procedure of the Treaty of Control Banks, including the German and Swiss ones, it is clear since the summer that one will have to get out of this project again, because the Turkish operators are obviously not willing or unable to comply with the signed terms and conditions. By the way, no one – including Rudi Scholten as the director of the control bank – assumes that until 12. December, that's the next deadline, anything will change. It should be assumed that the traffic lights will continue to be turned on yellow and then placed on red on the appropriate date, because – and that would be the greater scandal – if we suddenly left, simply so, of course, we would have to risk a infringement procedure. We would have to pay taxpayers' money for an unjustified exit that does not comply with the rules, which we could not really explain to taxpayers and taxpayers. I'm... It is perfectly legitimate and also proper and important that the Treaty should be respected and that it should not be respected. The exit should then be done as soon as possible, but there are certain deadlines that we will be able to bend. Let me say something on the question of export promotion in general! It has already been discussed relatively much about increasing this support. I am also concerned about how and how this money is used. I would like to remind you that in July 2007 we decided here in Parliament to make a request to the Minister of Finance to ensure that the OECD guidelines for international corporations should also apply in the future to the contracts, to the liabilities which the Control Bank gives. Let me briefly mention Ilisu: If these OECD guidelines had already been observed in Austria at the time when the Ilisu Treaty was signed, I think the Ilisu Treaty would never have been achieved at all, because these OECD guidelines are quite comprehensive for companies that use export liability and which are listed on the stock exchange. For example, this is about making a real contribution to the economic, social and environmental progress of the host countries and ensuring sustainable development there. This is where the arch of law extends from respect for human rights, from local capacity formation to employment opportunities for local workers, transparent workers' rights, such as the right to form trade unions, collective agreements, to combating child labour and all forms of forced labour. There must be no discrimination regarding race, skin color, gender, religious confession or anything else. The issues of the environment, health, safety, anti-corruption and many other issues are also part of these guidelines. Now, as a result of our decision, the Control Bank has already taken a whole year 2008 to implement these guidelines. Companies signing contracts are to comply with these guidelines. There are workshops for employees, there are information events for exporters. I believe that we have taken a very important step. It has already been said by a number of previous speakers that we will have to renovate this law in the near future, because we will probably have to expand the framework. I would like us to improve the law not only in terms of quantity, but also in terms of quality. For example, I think it is a small mistake in beauty that there are no sanctions if you do not comply with the requirements of the OECD Guidelines. There is still a lot to do, and I am looking forward to another opportunity. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10591	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10613	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I too am somewhat surprised that the colleague Themessl, whom I otherwise valued, today missed out on something that soon afterwards demonstrated to Mr Kogler. So the liberals are allowed to take an example of the Greens from time to time. Mr Kogler explained very clearly why It is necessary to increase the liability framework. This is not only a source of debt which the Ministries have to repay to us, but I believe that we have a real debt. In any case, we should not make ourselves completely dependent on the debt that the ministries fulfil or do not fulfil. This is an appeal to the Freedom Party, next time, instead of taking advantage of any conspiracy theories – I know that is a preference from you – then to give priority to the research and to take an example in this respect to the Greens. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] That would be appropriate here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another comment to Mr Grastaur, whom I appreciate as much as Mr Auer: If you already quote newspapers that the banks always call flat-rate, I would think we should do something more differentiated, even more responsible – we have more responsibility than the newspapers obviously use for themselves – and clearly distinguish between banks. There are banks in Austria who, fortunately, have not invested in those subprime products – by the way, most of them and all the essential ones – that have come from America and caused real destruction. We should also recognize this, because that is something that is vital for confidence in the Austrian economy, which is very important for the trust of the companies to the banks, from investors and savers to the banks. It is essential to make this distinction. Of course, there can be such a victim of international development, with us trying to put in place appropriate support measures so that the Austrian economy, so that companies, so that private savers are not put to the test. – That is why I ask the FPÖ to recognise this in the future. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The banks, as far as I look at this, are currently striving intensively, with those house-keepers who have received foreign currency credits – which, by the way, were mostly brought to the banks by the structural distributions; I also want to note that – to find solutions. I believe that it is useful to do so at this level rather than state and - I hate to say this - to carry out planned interventions by the legislator in private contracts. That is why we are not going to join this motion for a resolution, but I would like to thank you very much for the intensive discussions that we have had on a much more essential issue, because it is a system issue, namely, the structural distributions. I too am glad that we will show common parliamentary self-confidence – and that a more demanding partner will probably be towards ministries in the future – by addressing such important things together and solving them together. There I am confident.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10682	The next item is the report by Mr Lopatka, State Secretary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10703	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The financial crisis and the unfortunately worse economic development have already been the subject of today's work. It's an hour. The main task, the main concern of the new Federal Government, is to find the right answers to these challenges. In this context, I think these two innovations should also be seen: the revision of the Export Promotion and Export Financing Act. The need for adjustments is a consequence of the positive development in recent years. The export economy in Austria has boomed thanks to God, in the truest sense of the word, and has reached a record volume of € 115 billion in 2007. If there is such an extension, then it is of course also necessary here to create the necessary framework conditions so that there is clear legal certainty for those active in the export industry. I would like to say this very clearly, especially in the direction of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, because there were ambiguities on this side. So why is it necessary to extend this framework? – To say it quite clearly and clearly: We have already reached €43.5 billion in the Export Promotion Act, with this €45 billion, which we have had before. And in the second area, in the Export Funding Act, where we had the framework so far at €40 billion, we have now reached €38.3 billion. In this context, there are very concrete projects that are very close to the current framework – and therefore this expansion by €5 billion. – I hope that is now understandable to everyone. In any case, the whole is exclusively in the interests of our economy and the safeguarding of jobs in our country – and there is nothing more important, ladies and gentlemen, than to make our contribution in good time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As it was a wish to expand this financial framework even more, not by 5, but by € 10 billion, the clear answer: In the economy, not everything is foreseeable, and we have all been surprised several times over the past few months – unfortunately, there have been negative surprises – but: According to human discretion, this expansion would have to last for the next few years by €5 billion. Therefore, from the planning, the conservative approach, not to increase the framework by €10 billion immediately, but to an increase to the necessary extent, namely by €5 billion. That this is necessary is a positive sign, and I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to see this as such a sign. It has already been said: Thank God it has been possible in recent years that Austria's economy, especially in our neighbouring countries – for example, I am thinking only of the former Eastern Bloc States – has been stronger than other, much larger, economic nations. This successful path, despite the current crisis, is to continue in the next few years, and this requires appropriate support from the Federal Government. If it succeeds in the coming years – as it has been in recent years – so that something positive can be achieved for the government budget, then it would be optimal at all. – Whether we can achieve this in the face of this crisis scenario, which has been mentioned many times today, we will see. At any rate, I am glad that this has been signaled for broad approval – and perhaps the Liberal Group can also consider giving its support to these two proposals in the interests of securing jobs in Austria. Those who give their consent here thank you very much for my part.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10773	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10794	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Export is a very essential engine for the economy, of course also for our here in Austria. As Mr Lopatka stated earlier, the volume of exports in Austria reached well over €100 billion in 2007. 5 percent of these are covered by support, with 20 percent in difficult customer countries. In particularly difficult markets, exports are only possible with State security. – All this shows that export promotion has a very important role to play in the economic development of our country. Given the fact that every third job in Austria is secured by export, the need for this increase in liability is only underlined. Since almost all European and OECD countries, including emerging countries – China, India, Brazil, South Africa – have export promotions, effective export promotion in Austria is crucial for the participation of the Austrian export industry in the international market. Another instrument to promote the export economy is the possibility of customer financing, mainly based on the refinancing of export credits and handled by the control bank. Crisis times, as we are experiencing them now, show very clearly the global linkage of financial and economic systems, and they require measures to stabilise competitiveness. It is important that the support projects are also reviewed for their employment effectiveness. The work report of the Advisory Council also shows the positive impact of export promotion on employment and income in Austria. These applications are intended to increase the scope of the export promotion and export financing liability. Due to the difficult situation on capital markets, the liability framework for 2008 is practically exhausted, as already stated; demand is expected to rise in 2009. In order to ensure that there is sufficient capacity for action, it is useful to increase this framework of liability now, which we would like to do with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10837	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10859	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! A few words on financial service providers: It is certainly a very reasonable and correct request, which is being decided here today as a result of a five-party agreement. But also to Mr Ikrath a few words: You have said, on Mr Kogler's statement on foreign currency credits, that foreign currency loans have come mainly through structural distribution to banks. - That's right. But on the other hand: Who rated the loans and who finally approved them? – Already the banks and their employees! Therefore, the banks cannot be released from the bond, because it was yield-oriented thinking that moved the banks to do so, and because, in reality, they were very happy that activities on the distribution of structures had been overwhelmed and they themselves had been relieved from the front. Now going here and saying, only the structural distribution, only the poorly trained employees there were guilty – so simple, I think, you can't do it. At this point also an appeal: The staff in the banks are highly qualified, very well trained and very dedicated to their customers. But this effort for the customer is becoming less and less possible, namely that from above, from the level of managers, such enormous pressure on the employees at the front is being exerted, that it would not surprise me, if there were also, not due to lack of knowledge, not due to a lack of training, nor, and not, because of its own intention, that misconceptions had taken place there. Then: If fewer and fewer employees at the front are able to achieve ever greater goals, which are being octroyed from above, then there is also this danger. A final word on export financing: The dilemma is that one says on the one hand, there are difficulties in exporting because the financing is not secured; on the other hand, we know that the order situation is declining and productions are declining. If we now raise frameworks, there is also a risk of an increased risk. That is why we are careful and say that at this level we do not agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10898	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10919	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, some facts and data on the Export Funding Act and the Export Promotion Act. Of course, this is one of the pillars of our foreign trade or our export economy, which, I believe, is looking for the same in Europe. In 2000, we had an export share of about 20 percent of our gross social product; in 2007, we generated well over 50 percent, totaling more than €115 billion in export and export sales, with a further 16 percent for tourism. That is, we produce more than two thirds of our gross social product from abroad. If anyone is still of the opinion, like colleagues from the BZÖ or colleagues from the BZÖ, you don't need these instruments, or you might want to reduce them, then I think... – The BZÖ isn't? [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Then I'm glad you'll find yourself on our side again. It is clear from the facts and data that we had annual increase rates. To the extent of additional € 1 to 2 billion, these grants were increasingly used each year. Of course, the situation in the capital markets is currently very tense, and there these export liabilities, guarantees, of course, have also become an important instrument. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it should also be noted that it is also a business for the state. We ask for fees for these liabilities, and they have always been very, very positive. Overall, I think, one should also recognise the importance of the EU economic area for us in Austria, because 80 percent of our economic exports are made in the European area. If you still think that we do not need the European Union, I cannot understand it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I like to agree to this increase of €5 billion – it is at least less than half of the volume that we actually do in export sales – and believe that we are doing a very good job for the Austrian export industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e10980	Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. I would also like to have a 3 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11029	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand that the liberals can't go there. It would have been nice if we had achieved a uniform voting behaviour, because it is perfectly clear that an export-oriented economy – and know-how export, of course, also means economic exports – depends on this funding instrument. It would certainly have been better, as Mr Matznetter also said, to increase the framework even further, but the debate in this regard has not ended completely. It is also good that we understand today in principle how to clarify processes like those at AWD better in the future and to take more care here. I would just like to say on this occasion – because, in principle, we are discussing the fact that we are not opening up a bank package so much, but rather a package for the economy, so that the necessary money will flow in the economy and thus the whole economy of Austria can survive in this difficult crisis period: We may have forgotten that in the cases of Immofinanz and Meinl Bank, which have been so marked in the run-up to this crisis, there has actually not been a typical financial development, but that the market, namely consumers, investors, has been misused. And if you talk about the second and third pillars – as we did before – when you talk about the need for confidence in the capital market, you have to fight, above all, those companies that exploit individuals in particular. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] - Thank you. In this context, I would like to mention the Meinl Bank once again, because this has somehow fallen as part of the last discussions. When I see here and read that a dividend withdrawal of €70 million from the bank has last taken place, of course, the Meinl family “referred to In the positive sense, and since 2004, a total of €240 million has been collected from dividends, and on the other hand, the thousands of small investors who have expected to be right in this sparwine advertising – namely, that if one can secure its future from the Meinl Bank, if one goes into its products – all have fallen to the nose now because everything has become practically worthless, then I would like to express my appeal that we cannot forget it and that in future, if we do something for the banks who are in need and for the economy, we must also consistently fight against those in which there may be such a procedure in the future, and I would like to refer again to the figures mentioned in connection with the Meinl Bank and to the way in which the dividend is really insolent here, if at the same time thousands of investors have been “overturned” for their whole capital – that we really must oppose such transactions accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11075	The next item is the report by Mr Windholz. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11096	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! I should like to speak on two motions for resolutions. I'll start with that one on financial services assistants. In my opinion, there is a real need for action. We heard in the Committee on Finance yesterday, too, Mr President, that he had planned a joint discussion for January. I think it is right and important that Parliament is already expressing itself clearly and clearly on this matter today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have 12,000 businesses and 16,000 employees, so to a total of 28 000 who carry on this activity – a free trade under commercial law – and they generally work to insurance companies and banks. It is therefore also necessary to deal with the question of what the current law allows. There are now not only Zig thousands of victims on the one hand, on the side of investors, but also among the financial service providers there are some who already see themselves as victims. Where are these people recruited? – Usually in the area of job seekers. We in the country would say: They attend a fast-separed course, and then they are sent to march – to relatives, to acquaintances, where it is difficult to say no. As a rule, they are set up to sell high-term products, which, of course, also means high commissions. Then a 55-year-old is told: Close a life insurance for 30 years, then you really have a lot of money when you are 85!, and more like that. There is also an initial judgment at AWD, which is not yet legally grown, in a model process where the consultation question has been assessed. I should like to say once again to all those thanks that have made it possible for Parliament to express itself clearly and clearly today. I really think this is highly welcome. The second motion for a resolution, to which I also wish to speak, concerns the immediate withdrawal of Austria from the Turkish dam project Ilisu. We have always supported this – it is also about opportunities for Austrian companies. But if one has to take note today that there are no agreements in Turkey in such a way, then, I believe, this calls for a formal consequence. And we want to put this consequence today: We will also vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11153	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Export Funding Act, together with the title and receipt in 28 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also adopted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dkfm. Stupid, Dr. Pilz, Krainer, Bucher, Weinzinger on reforms in the Securities Supervision Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 1.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, colleagues, on a ban on pyramid-playing structural distributions for financial instruments. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is largely rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, colleagues and colleagues on moratorium for private (foreign currency) creditors to bridge the consequences of the financial crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is largely rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Lunacek, Bayr, Dkfm. Stumbling, Weinzinger and Bucher on the introduction of a financial transaction tax. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 2.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues, concerning the immediate withdrawal of Austria from the Turkish scandal project Ilisu. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is largely rejected. We shall also vote on the draft federal law amending the Export Promotion Act, together with the title and receipt in 29 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. [[At first, only the representatives of the BZÖ and the Greens rise from their seats. – Call at BZÖ towards ÖVP –: You must be there for that too!]] [[Further calls at BZÖ and Green towards SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – To illustrate: It concerns the draft federal law amending the Export Promotion Act, together with the title and receipt in 29 of the Supplements. I would like once again to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] – I ask for attention so that no mistakes occur! I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. (E 3.) 5. Point Report of the main committee on the reimbursement of an overall proposal for the election of the chairmen of the Federal Parliamentary Complaints Commission on Military Affairs at the Federal Ministry of State Defense for the first time. January 2009 beginning (new six years) term of office (31 d.a.) [[14:37:41]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11263	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one has made a statement on the floor, so there is no debate either. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then come back to the vote at once. [[Abg. Scheibner: Please explain the vote before, yes?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Always say, “Rise! ” or“ Sit! ”!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Always say, “Red and black rise! ” or, “Sit! ”!]] Since there is only one election proposal, I suggest in the sense of § 87 para. 7 GoG to vote by standing up and sitting down. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have to say that to the coalition!]] Is there any objection to this? - That's not the case. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who have the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in 31 of the Supplements, according to which Members to the National Council other than Anton Gaál and Paul Kiss and Brigadier Professor Walter Seledec with effect from 1. January 2009 to be elected to the Federal Ministry of Defence as Chairman of the Federal Parliamentary Committee on Complaints in Military Affairs to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:39:37]] 6. Point Election of members and substitutes of the Council of Europe Parliament
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11354	We shall now proceed to item 6 of the agenda. There are nominations of the political groups for members and substitutes. As members, the Members of Parliament should be Mag. Gisela Wurm, Fritz Neugebauer, Karl Donabauer, Dr. Martin Graf and, as replacement members, the Deputies Mag. Christine Muttonen, Sonja Ablinger, Mag. Karin Hakl, Dr. Johannes Hübner and Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen are elected. Since there is therefore an election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there any objection? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Objection! Objection! There's a missing member! Ours! Exactly ours!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Midterer is missing!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: He's in the Federal Council!]] . I am interrupting the session briefly because we have to consider whether the composition in the Croquis has been properly explained. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11474	I'll start the interrupted session again. The objection has been withdrawn because six members and six replacement members are sent, but we now only decide on the members sent by the National Council. The remaining members are sent by the Federal Council and must therefore vote there. There is therefore no objection. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the electoral proposal which I have announced, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The election of members and substitutes has thus been carried out in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. [[14:42:11]] 7. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Return of works of art from the Austrian Federal Museums and Collections and the Law of the 1. August 1895 on the judicial procedure to be amended in civil disputes (9/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11537	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Zinggl. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11564	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already submitted a request for amendments to the Art Return Act in the past legislative period, which has remained lying, and we have now brought it back. We will do so until the National Council sees that there is a real need for reform in this regard. The 1998 law is not bad, on the contrary, it is even very good, exemplary, internationally exemplary, but after ten years it shows quite clear gaps, natural gaps and those about which one has to discuss. A natural gap, for example, would be that it is not exactly clear what is meant by the word “art object. ” This includes, for example, uniforms or any stone collection or toy cars. There is a need for repair that can be accepted by all, I believe. The return of art objects from the period before 1938 is also a matter of course. These are the objects of art that the Nazis in Germany have torn under the nail, which eventually came to Austria and stored here in the museums. These art objects too, I believe, can be returned consensually. Less self-evident – and there is obviously no consensus in this House – is the Leopold Collection; a museum that exhibits predatory art and even makes fun of it, saying: We're not a federal museum, we can do what we want! Our collection is a private foundation, it doesn't matter to you! - That's to be questioned. This is a construction that needs to be reversed, because in reality it is, of course, a hidden federal museum. A collection that was bought by the federal government around €160 million and brought into the foundation if it is not a federal collection! And if a house is built for this collection, namely the Leopold Museum in MuseumsQuartier, this is nothing but a federal museum. And if the federal government still puts half of the board of foundations and even the chairmanship on the board of directors, you can say calmly that this is something like a 51-percent part of the federal government. The Republic is also the last beneficiary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] – Yes, I know, Mr Molterer, that you think otherwise, but the Republic is the last beneficiary of the Foundation, and at some point all of this is returned. I don't think it makes a good picture in the public if you don't do it now, where we all know what it's all about. In addition, the Court of Auditors is still examining this foundation – that is really quite clear. The State bears responsibility if it buys works of art that were originally robbed with its money. And there's nothing to do with these white constructions, and it doesn't use anything at all, if Interministerial Commissions are set up in which officials say each other: Oh, that's a stupid story, but we can't do anything! – It is not about these pictures, but about how the Republic deals with its past. We know that voluntaryly this foundation will not give it back – but that would be the best solution at all if Director Leopold and also the board of foundations felt that there was a lot to give back, because then we would have peace. But that is not the case, and so we need legal measures that we have tabled with our request. Who, if not this High House, can change laws, namely laws that cover injustice? I mean, we should act relatively fast. An argument which is constantly colported to the public and is also repeatedly mentioned in this House is: As an Austrian, how do we return stolen art objects if the other countries do not? – Ladies and gentlemen, this always reminds me of a captured robber who is condemned and does not see his punishment at all with the argument that there are dozens of robbers around the world who run free, so why should he sit down for something? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11626	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. I would also like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11647	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, this law is ten years old. For the tenth time, the decision of the Federal Law on the Repatriation of Art Items has been yearned, just a short time ago, on 3 March. December of this year. With this law a very important step has been taken to rework Austrian history. To remember: The decision was taken by all parliamentary groups at the time. And that was very gratifying. In order to fulfil this legal mission, a Commission for Provenance Research has been set up, whose task is to systematically explore the Federal Museums' holdings. This Commission has done a lot in recent years, and I would also like to thank you for this. Thousands of objects have now been returned from the Federal Museums to the legitimate owners. In the annual reports to the National Council, you can track the work of this Commission, which is documented and made public. One thing I would like to say: The restitution of the goods robbed in the time of National Socialism is a historical duty! She's our moral duty! I don't think there's anything to do with that. A clear commitment to this as well as to the work of provenance research as a whole and the advisory board can also be found in the government programme. As you know, in spring of this year, Federal Minister Schmied, together with the Chairman of the Clemens Jabloner Restitution Council, presented measures to further improve the restitution of the federal government, which also includes a revision of the existing Restitution Act. A corresponding draft of the resort has been examined. However, decision-making was no longer possible due to the elections. This draft provides for the clarification and concreteisation of the legal bases in the sense of a full return of dubious stocks from federal property. In this way, not only art objects in the narrow sense, but also moving cultural goods are to be captured. The aim of this novelle is also – I believe that this is very important – to achieve an acceleration of the duration of the return procedures. This acceleration would probably not exist if the draft law put forward by Mr Zinggl were to be adopted. This request is also specifically about the Leopold Foundation. We have already debated this question here; Mr Zinggl has also mentioned this. It is about extending the Federal Return Obligations to funds, foundations and institutions managed by federal bodies or persons appointed by the Federal Government. We debated this at the time, and I also said at that time whether and in what form the Leopold Foundation can actually be included in the Restitution Act is a complex legal question. I was at the time and am not convinced today that this route proposed by Mr Zinggl would actually be acceptable and would have existed. At the initiative of Federal Minister Schmied, the constitutional issues affected by such a scheme have now been examined in detail by an interministerial working group. The results of numerous experts, from the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, and the Financial Procuratorate, confirm these reservations. The creation of a Lex Leopold is at odds with constitutional restrictions because of its general intervention in private property. And it might well happen that the possible resulting procedures prevent legal and enforceable measures for a longer period of time. However, I would like to express once again that it is also urgent for me to have clarity about the origin of the Foundation's works of art. The accusations in relation to the Leopold Foundation here in the room need to be clarified. Minister Schmied has already taken steps that are necessary. As you know, the foundations will now be examined by two independent researchers paid by the federal government, and first results will be available in the spring of next year. Then, with the involvement of the Foundation, a body will be set up, which will carry out a legal evaluation of the results in the same way as the Restitution Advisory Council. And based on these opinions, the board of the Foundation can then decide on any return. This would not come into controversy with the purpose of the foundation. I think we all have to be interested in a solid solution and are interested in a solution that also exists, and I think the path taken is really good. I hope that, on the basis of the new government agreement, the decision-making of the proposed amendment to the Art Restitution Act will be taken soon and that, as already ten years ago, we can do so together with the other political groups. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11732	The next item is Mrs Fuhrmann's speech. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11754	Mr President. High house! At the beginning, I would like to say to Mr Zinggl that I am a little afraid that in this House, allegations are still being put into space in the direction, Austria or also the Austrian Parliament would have learned nothing from history, whether the formation of Austrian history is not clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] I think it is no longer necessary to carry it before us all the time today. We can also, after ten years – 1998, the Restitution Act was decided; then, by all the parties represented in Parliament – be sure that restitution is not only a historical duty, but also that we must be aware that, as a model for the Austrian population, we have to be sensitive to the fact that we can deal with history, also in the sense of this law, which aims to return art items from the Austrian federal museums and collections to their original owners. This is precisely why the Commission has also been used for provenance research, in order to fully review this situation. I think that this Commission has done a good job so far. And at this point we should also say thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that ten years of restitution law are an appropriate time to take stock, not a question, and that it should be possible to discuss possible improvements and innovations. Mr Zinggl, your request is not new, it has already been introduced and discussed during the previous legislative period. At that time, possible improvements and innovations were addressed and discussed jointly. Mrs Muttonen has already said that the government programme also contains a commitment to improve the restitution of art and cultural goods and the work of provenance research and the advisory board. The government programme also says quite clearly and clearly that a novel of the Art Return Act is being sought. I would therefore ask you, instead of constantly talking about the past or their non-perception in the House, to discuss what legal adjustments we want to make and what lessons from the previous experience with these examinations are. In fact, the application presented here is aimed solely at the Leopold Foundation. The Federal Government has always clearly said that the revision of the Art Return Act should be dealt with separately from the question of the Leopold Foundation. You know, you mentioned it earlier, there has been an interministerial working group to do so, and this Commission has rejected the concern of extending the Art Return Act, which so far only applies to the Federal Museums, to the Leopold Collection. Mr Muttonen has also given the reasons for this: since a direct intervention of the federal government into the property of the foundation is excluded on the basis of existing regulations and a separate legal regime is subject to constitutional restrictions. It has been agreed that independent provenance research should be established. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let this independent evidence research work once. The results that are then available can then be discussed together in a constructive manner.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11824	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stefan. 5 minutes desired speaking time. – I would point out, however, that I have to interrupt the speech after 2 minutes to hold the short debate. – Do you want to start your speech and continue after the short debate, or do you want to give the speech after the short debate?
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11856	Mr President. High house! It is certainly an important concern, of course, that we, too, fully support the liberals, to make the best of the wrong that we have done and to help the victims. Enrichment in the suffering of others must be strictly rejected and should not be rewarded. The draft law at first reading caused some discomfort, and it is therefore necessary to comment on it from a liberal point of view. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] First: It looks like a Lex Museum Leopold should be created here, and event laws are always very problematic. Secondly, the question arises: Is this just the first step in extending the refund, and where is the end? Will the principle of good faith also be extended to private by the authorised industrialist? Are limitation periods for certain acts no longer valid? In any case, we are in favour of legal certainty, because the rule of law is one of the highest goods that this state has. Constitutional concerns have also been raised. Thirdly, Contracts have so far been withdrawn unilaterally, including those concluded after 1945, often with the argument that the returnees have been put under pressure here because they have come into an unfriendly environment. At least that's strange from my point of view. At that time the four-power statute was valid. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Fourth: On the other hand, there is still no intervention by the government for the rights of the displaced after the end of World War II, which were expropriated in a large style and are now Austrian citizens. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Or has a member of the government ever advocated the abolition of the Beneš decrees and the AVNOJ provisions during the EU accession negotiations of the Czech Republic and Slovenia? - I don't know anything. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes!]] Fifth...
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11899	Ladies and gentlemen, the two minutes are over. I am now interrupting your speech, and we are continuing after the short debate. I am now interrupting the negotiations on this item on the agenda. [[15:01:25]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11926	We come to the brief debate on the request made by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, to the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 20/A by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, a deadline until 21. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. Before we go into the debate, I would draw all the Members, including all those who are not in the Chamber, to the point that the lists, nominations, the presidencies and functions of the committees have been clarified. This means that the Committee's constitutions take place immediately after the allocation meeting. Please take this into account too! The constitutions will take about one hour in total. – This is only for the guidance of those who have never been with such a thing. We are now going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the government should not last more than 10 minutes. The word is first given to the applicant, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, with a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e11967	Madam President. – I hope Mr Lopatka is still in the house. I would be glad if he attended the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you probably have on Thursday before the election Sunday, 28th. In September, the so-called elephant round, followed by the lap of the top candidates on television. One of the questions raised by Mrs Thurnher to all the top candidates was: How do you keep it with the ability to donate to NGOs in Austria outside of scientific work, namely those who work in the social, cultural, ecological, animal protection sector, how do you keep it? – To our surprise, all five top candidates answered with a very clear and affirmative yes. Yes, they want this donation in Austria. And this is good, because Austria is the only Western European country in which there is not yet this possibility of support for NPOs, for non-governmental organisations in very important social policy areas. There have already been efforts and years of discussions. There was already a working group in the Ministry of Finance under Schwarz-Blau I and II. There were well-thought-out proposals. So we have a discussion behind us, and it is nothing more to discuss, but the question is simply: Do we want to do this now – yes or no? The organizations have all agreed together on a proposal for a law, and this proposal has been adopted since 28. ==References====External links== There is actually no reason not to decide on this legislative proposal or to push it further to the long bank. That is why we are making a proposal for a deadline today, also with the desire for short debate, as started here, to hear your position on this very important project once again. We also learned a lot about the media on the weekend. Both in the “press hour” of the SPÖ, by Federal Chancellor Faymann, and by Vice Chancellor Pröll came positive, but only partially positive, proposals. You have to say a lot about this now and also ask some questions. Donation-absorbing, yes, but not for everyone. First of all, it has been said that the ability to donate only to those organisations active in the fight against poverty, which would have meant that neither the Caritas nor the Light would have benefited from this possibility, and above all that the entire ecological area, all environmental protection organisations, all animal protection organisations, all human rights organisations here would be second-class organisations. I cannot understand that, and I would also be interested in your argument. Mr Lopatka has also expressed very, very openly, mercilessly in the Committee on Finance: Only the social NGOs and their activities should be appreciated and not environmental and animal protection organisations should be. [[Abg. Hornek: That's good!]] Mr Hornek, you come from a community in which you are obviously always very strong for environmental protection. Why do you want to appreciate whether someone is engaged in nature conservation or animal welfare or old-age care, for better care in care? Why do you want to differentiate here? I'll tell you one thing: People in this area – that is 170 000 people employed! – achieve a significant volume of value added for Austria as a whole, and of course they also deserve a certain degree of recognition for this. There are over 900 000 people volunteering in this area. It is therefore almost a million people who are involved in this field and who are associated with these organisations. And you start here at once with a division between those who do it for social purposes and those who do it for ecological or animal protection purposes! One must not forget, Mr Hornek – and you could listen to me a little if you already put so much emphasis on this differentiation: Environmental protection is also a social policy. I think you should know that in the first place, right in a community. How many people now have difficulty keeping their apartment warm? How many people suffer from increased energy prices, from the high oil price? Is it not also a question of social security, protection and also a certain secure network for the future when it comes to environmental protection and climate protection? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Much work, often unpaid – little appreciation, and then this differentiation! It looks like this is a political differentiation according to the motto: I can't bite the hand that feeds me. It seems that the organizations, which are sometimes inconvenient, who, like today, are occupying the control bank, because they have not properly positioned themselves in the Ilisu question, are punishing and making their work difficult for them. Or what does differentiation mean otherwise? Other arguments, I believe, cannot really come because the volume of donations in the environment, animal welfare and human rights sector as a whole represents a very small proportion of the total donation volume, namely only 10 percent. So it can't be a financial argument. What is it then? – Is it really this political unloving of these organizations? Or is the reason that you may also be shy about having a civil society here and there with a critical dialogue, but what is necessary and what is also your task? Amnesty, the animal protectionists, the environmental organizations, the social NGOs also have the important task of keeping our eyes on and saying, as a policy, that: You make mistakes, please look at this situation, please look at this situation and take our criticism seriously, here we make an important, very essential contribution in Austrian society. – And that also includes criticism, first of all! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The donations are broken in this year. Many organisations complain about declines in the range of 10 or more percent. It'll get worse for the next year. Many fear loss of donations in the range of 20 percent. For many, however, the work is multiplying. In the last few weeks alone in Vienna, there has been a doubling of the number of people who need social assistance and thus also depend on support from these organisations. That was 40,000 people a few months ago, and now it is 90,000 people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] – You don’t always have to react allergicly, I just say the numbers. We want to do something about it together. It's not always an attack! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Krainer: You have been developing since 2002!]] But you could do a lot to help, Mr Krainer, because you, or the colleague Rudas, as far as human rights organisations are concerned, are a clear point of view. Why should amnesty be internationally excluded from this possibility of donation? That is absolutely not understandable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Some tricky questions already exist, for example: What if people who have a very low income cannot afford a certain medical care of these animals, such as the operation of a dog, if they have animals? What's that? Is that animal protection? Is this also some support for people in an emergency, help for a being with whom these people have developed a certain relationship? And for many older people this is a very important question. Is that social policy? Is this social work? Or is the animal welfare work? That's a tricky question. By the way: What happens to such organizations that are actually in the process of being abyssed? Wiener Tierschutzverein: Who then takes care of 652 cats, 354 dogs, seven monkeys, a giant alligator and a Siberian tiger? We shall perhaps send these to you in the forest district, Mr Hornek, if you are not prepared to get under the arms of these organizations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This may be cheerful now, but the appreciation that this area needs... – You take responsibility for your animals. [[Abg. Hornek: I take responsibility for my animals!]] But there are a lot of animals for which no one takes responsibility, and exactly for them there are these NGOs! You take over for – I know! – a million pigs are responsible. [[Abg. Grill: 80 million daily, Mrs. Colleague!]] I would like this not to be turned off in warmth now, but you have to answer the political question today, namely: What is the difference between a donation to Greenpeace, a donation to the Vienna Animal Protection Association, a donation to the Caritas, a donation to Noah the Arche, cultural institutions or people working in the field of cultural goods and monuments, and also volunteering, and they are excluded? How are you different? If you cannot give a proper reply today, the suspicion remains true, and this is a very bad suspicion that it is politically unloving organisations. You can now explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12087	We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. Mr Krainer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12114	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The figures for social assistance in Vienna have not doubled in the last few weeks, but doubled from 2000 to 2004. But this is also a long time ago and, I do not think, in any connection with the question of whether donations are now deductible or not. There are different models, different considerations. One is this grass model that now demands the greens. The liberals have presented a model similar to the church tax. The BZÖ has presented a model which is still being discussed here today in the context of a first reading, for the first time, and then allocated to the Financial Committee. The SPÖ has also presented a model that works a little differently, not in the way that the individual who spends has an advantage because, in the course of the annual balance, he recovers part of his donation depending on the progress of the year, but by the organization that has been donated has an advantage in the form that the state almost doubles 30 to 40 percent of the donations that this organization has received over the course of a year. This is an essential question: Who should have the advantage of it – the donor or the organization for which the donation was intended? I don't think there's going to be so much going on there that the amount of donations would rise massively either. I think that's illusory. But we are quite open to discuss, also on the question of which donations to which organizations should now be considered as a bonus for the organization or as a bonus for the donor here, and do not see this so closely that you could say now, that is there or that is not in it. We now think little of a deadline until, I think, 21. January is proposed here. There will be a round table with the NGOs and the government in the next few weeks, and I believe that the different models that exist need to be discussed in peace, that one has to discuss what model one is drawing on, and that one should also take the time to consider this balancedly, and not now this Grasser accusation – apologise: to whip the Grasser draft here by Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The environmental organizations are not at all invited!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12170	Mrs Tamandel's next speech. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12191	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Glawischnig, we do not want to divide anything, but it is primarily about the people who need help, and the people who should also have something to do with giving organisations something that will help people again. I do not feel that it is so necessary that the first thing to do is to benefit the organisations that then receive these donations, but the people who can expect help from these organisations in turn. That's very important to us. Mr Lopatka, the State Secretary, also mentioned yesterday in the Financial Committee, will now have a donation summit. This has nothing to do with the fact that, since the TV confrontation, one has changed the opinion in this regard. This is quite simply because – you mentioned it yourself –: We voted in September, on 28. In October the National Council was re-established here, and now it is time to enter into a dialogue with the organizations and to involve these institutions and organisations here as well. I do not think it is necessary to push the government or specifically the Minister of Finance to do something with a deadline request, but it is necessary – and we have come to know that the government is familiar with this – to do something in the area of disbursement. But that we are primarily human... [[Call at BZÖ: For eight years!]] – You were also in the government once, Mr. Collegue; Not as a person, but as your group. So you don't need to make yourself here and ask for something you could have done. We are now doing it, we are acting now, and the organisations will also be involved. But it is important for the whole thing that, through the ability to donate, the donations can also be increased, because we need that for the people. You mentioned it yourself: Some people don't know how to survive winter. Some people do not know how to offer their children an appropriate Christmas party, a beautiful celebration with Christmas gifts. In this context, aid organisations are also dependent on donations. Of course, the donations go back. But why do the donations go back? – You donate from a taxed money, and there we have to do something, and we will do the same. And I can tell you: If it were so simple, and if the donor organisations met certain conditions, regarding the quality of the donations, concerning the audit et cetera, I can assure you that it might be possible to find several on this list of beneficiary beneficiaries. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But the Caritas cannot certify donations!]] But many do not want to do that, and many simply have a lot to do in their administration. I don't think it's necessary to set deadlines here. We are making a tax reform, which will also apply retroactively, and therefore also the ability to pay back will be retroactively possible. Everyone who's with 1. January 2009, this donation will be able to end in 2009. To this end, we know each other, including the Minister of Finance and the Government, where you can be sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12238	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12259	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Tamandl, you promise nothing you can't keep. If you're here today from the speaker's desk, that's everyone who's on the 1st floor. January 2009 spends, which will also be able to stop... – Not sure, because you do not even know which association is to be favored here. [[Abg. Tamandl: Sure!]] Now, if I donate something to an association that won't be favoured afterwards, I can't stop my donations. There you have to be careful with what you promise. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is, the donations go back. This harms civil society, but it also harms our state. Let us remember, for example, that it would be very, very cost-effective for the State to have to provide the services that non-profit organisations themselves. A very well-known example of all those who have their food point in rural areas is fire brigades. The voluntary fire brigades are engaged in an activity which we could not finance in the context of a fire brigade in rural areas. If you have a traffic accident in Austria today, and you need the fire brigade to get the car to take off, or you need the Red Cross, then these two organizations will be on site within a short time. If the same accident happens to you in Hungary, it may happen to you that you wait one to two hours until someone comes to get rid of the car, because there is a completely different system there. This is why these benefits are particularly important for us and also for our social state Austria. We have proposed – Mr Krainer has already said it – a fiscal consideration in the context of special expenditure, because the church tax is already being taken into account in this area, with a cover of €100, as well as the church tax. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a Nazi law, with the church tax! You shouldn't compare that! You need to be careful, or you're in the field of re-activating!]] However, I would say that this is a good way, Mr Stadler! 100 € would also ensure that no abuse is performed. This is a value one has already donated as an average citizen. You know how donate the Austrians are. In this context, I would also like to mention Italy's model, which should at least be considered. In Italy, every citizen who pays taxes makes a certain contribution to social expenditure. And then the citizen decides for himself who is to benefit from this social contribution – a church, a non-profit association, an environmental organization. There is also a competition between organizations which also show what they are doing for the general public. They also introduce themselves to the citizens in order to have the opportunity to benefit from these benefits. I would like to address a second issue on which I would ask the Federal Government to deal with it over the next few months, namely VAT reimbursement for non-profit organisations when they buy equipment they need for their use. In the fire brigade, for example, this is the device to cut injured people out of the wreck, at the Red Cross these are the vehicles or the defibrillator. All these things, which these non-profit organisations buy, are to be taken into account in the context of a VAT refund. Here again, I put forward the argument that, in the end, all these benefits, they would be provided by the public authorities, would cost the taxpayer much more. If you have contact with persons who are active in the community, you know what benefits are provided by these persons. Many, many thousand hours of work are carried out in vain. We must therefore also consider how we can reward these volunteers in the context of a tax reform. I still have a request to my colleagues from the SPÖ, concerning the association VOX in Vienna. Each of the fifth Viennans is affected by serious hearing. This association cares for heavy-heard people. It is now true that by the municipality of Vienna the rent for the club's village of VOX was tripled or had to be tripled. I would like to ask you very cordially that the Association of VOX be reimbursed for the additional costs incurred by this increase in rents, on the other hand, in the form of a grant or a subsidy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12327	Next, Mr Magistrate. Widmann speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12349	Madam President. High house! When it comes to volunteering, all politicians agree: That's important, that's right, that's what you're supporting. You'll be there in the first row when it comes to photography. You'll be there at opening parties. But when it comes to making nails with heads in Parliament for those people who do great things for our community, for our society, there are different approaches. I can remind you that it was the BZÖ, who was still at the top with Finance Minister Grasser at the time – [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That was a good one!]] That was a good one, and we also trained it with us. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Is the grass also at BZÖ? I believed he was ÖVP! - You don't know each other!]] It was Grasser, who had already been so far with the other five parties to enforce the admissibility of donations also legally. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You see that the ÖVP and the SPÖ are obviously on the road to delay, and I hope that the FPÖ is on track with us in order to benefit these people. The Greens' request for deadlines is correct, it is important, it is not yet complete. For example, there is a lack of abstinence of donations for the Red Cross or also for the fire brigade. However, I should also like to remind you of what Mrs Glawischnig said, namely that the elephant round has basically said yes to the reluctance, but subsequently the government programme was a zero programme. There's nothing in there about how to get the volunteers under the arms. What's going on? – Before Christmas there is a large press conference, Mr. Finanzminister takes place and says he realizes the agility. Furthermore, there is a large working group because it may no longer know, and it is no longer certain whether those who are concerned are really involved, because that would also be important. But imagine a country without volunteers, a country without sports clubs, without cultural associations, without fire brigades, without red cross, without gold hoods! – These are all clubs that need our support. Because of the economic crisis, because of the price, they have too little income. Sweden, Finland, Austria and the whole of Europe. - You have to say that. The volunteers in Austria do 18 million hours of volunteering a week. – This would be an average of 425,000 full-time employees. So what's this about? – It is also about providing support in the future not only to a certain elite circle, which has been held here on 15 pages, such as the Bruno Kreisky Forum, the Felix Ermacora Institute or the Hannes Androsch Foundation. It is also about giving the donations for the voluntary fire brigade, for the Red Cross or for the Gold Cap Group in the future to send people directly on the spot. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is the idea of a certain amount of amortization per year – about 100 € – worth a discussion. But it is also a matter of upgrading the blue light organizations, as has already been mentioned – in terms of content, social law, but also insurance technology. It is about the fact that volunteers at the Red Cross or also at the fire brigade are entitled to exemption and payment of compensation in use or in the event of training. It is about ensuring accident and liability insurance for these people. And it is also a question of refunding VAT on support points or, for example, on the purchase of large-scale equipment from large vehicles. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's perverse to drive in tax money first, then wait until the fire brigade is starved, then return a little bit. We'd rather leave the tax away. It is also about developing intelligent models for pension accounting, or also about supporting the driving licence costs in particular with the large-scale driver's license C, or – in Upper Austria there is already – to take over 50 percent of the service provider's costs from the fourth day, or also because – this is the idea of President Ferry Mayer of the Red Cross – to realize the tax deductibility of time donations. [[Call ÖVP:Fredy!]] Fredy Mayer. So you see, there are a lot of good ideas, but politics seems to be hidden in the competence confusion, because for this the country is responsible, for that the Federation is responsible. Have courage, ladies and gentlemen on the government bench, organize a round table, and solve the problem all over the country! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] I think we have to make Austria the donor country number 1 in Europe. The willingness to donate is there – in the social sector, in the environmental sector, in the cultural sector, as well as in the sports sector. Just before Christmas – think of “light in the dark” – it would be time to present a sign to the associations and also to the NGOs, because these people do priceless and great things and are not allowed to be bitters towards politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12435	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12456	Madam President. This deadline is necessary and correct, even if the speakers of the government parties have hardly referred to the deadline, yes, not even to the full content of the application. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: We have referred to the deadline!]] Now it's like that You're actually doing it. Their voting behaviour should have been justified. Not even that's clear. I suspect and fear that you will reject this deadline. It would be very correct and important if Parliament – as it has been a few times today – gave a clear signal to the government that there is a danger of delay. It is bad enough if, after years of promises, nothing has gone on, especially since at the last great appearance of all the party leaders before the election, everyone has committed themselves to shattering themselves exactly in this sense and in this direction, but now not much remains. The deadline is all the more important and correct than after the appearances of Faymann and Pröll in fact threatens Unbil. What happened on the weekend? – Minister of Finance Pröll has believed that he can recognize the favor of the hour and is running to the “Kronen Zeitung” – he can now do so – announces a new solution in the sense of tax deductibility, just on the day on which the Federal Chancellor has his appearance in the “press hour”. He is confronted with this concern, and in the evening this is the first report in the “Time in Figure 1. ” We know these processes, but what has shimmered out on content points, how this is to be done now, is more sobering. Why? – First of all, it is not clear which model you want to understand. Although there are already 100 proposals, Mr Pröll obviously wants to start a working group with Adam and Eve again, instead of simply clarifying two criteria, namely the technique of tax deductibility – there is a clear proposal in this proposal – and the question of who the beneficiaries are; of course, that cannot be all, in which we agree. We may not agree directly on every single initiative, but the key areas should be undisputed: the social initiatives, if one wants to do so, also the charitable initiatives, the development initiatives, the humanitarian initiatives and the ecological initiatives. But what do we need to hear when we take the Federal Chancellor seriously? – That perhaps one can do something in the area of social initiatives, and then only if the individual donation has, so to speak, a mesh, that the money that was donated is used exactly to combat poverty. This cannot even be ensured by the Caritas, as she herself emphasizes, that in each individual case she can provide exactly the evidence that poverty risk has been reduced, because of course they also use donations for activities that are not one too one. So this is the starting position from which the government or the German Chancellor intends to go into this history and from which the Federal Ministries for Finance want to convene their own summit. That doesn't look good. It would be all the more important if these negotiations were to take place on a clear basis. This may not be the final conclusion of wisdom either, but it is a request that sets out a few criteria quite clearly, contrary to this fog-throwing that comes from the government bank. – In the meantime, there is no even someone to throw the fog. I really don't think that's all right: We know that this deadline requires that this request has been dealt with in the Financial Committee yesterday. By the way, Mr State Secretary, who is not present right now, has just been able to do so, with an open-hearted embarrassment, and this could also be the background to your reluctance and to extend the subject to any working group – the ecological initiatives, but also the humanitarian – Amnesty International – for example – should be left empty in this history. That is what you are explaining to us now, because the speakers of the government parties have not answered it, Mr Krainer, Mrs Tamandl. - You left it out. I even wonder what the SPÖ thinks about leaving out these just-called initiatives. I understand it more clearly with the ÖVP, which has proved to them all the years in the last and the last government that these critical initiatives have been against them, so to speak. However, I think it is important that you risk building up your own bureaucracy because of this obviously political approach, so that these initiatives are separated from this matter, so that they do not benefit from these donations. Together they would only need 10 percent of the donations. Ergo can no more than 10 percent of the total tax loss. I do not think this attitude is all right, not to say bad. And you didn't even explain the attitude here. I think that's even worse.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12493	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 20/A by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, a period of time until 21. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – That's the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The “Stern Hour of Parliamentaryism” is over again!]] [[15:35:54]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12537	I will resume the negotiations on item 7 of the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is a new plan of the Committee's constitutions, which will be distributed over the next few minutes. I would ask you to take into account the fact that the current proposals have become obsolete. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12570	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I was in the process of expressing our concerns and our dissatisfaction with this request for the extension of the Restitution Act, and I am now coming to my last two points. First: Time and again, in the past, we have seen that the beneficiaries of the restitution are not the victims themselves, but mostly lawyers, the Ed Fagans of this world, or interconnected institutions. Secondly, The operations affected by this draft are at least two generations behind. That means that the people concerned themselves are usually no longer alive, and the obliged ones probably hardly lived at that time. The question is therefore: How will it continue in the future? Rudolf Burger, professor of philosophy at the Hochschule für Angewandte Kunst in Vienna, has expressed non-conformist and undoubtedly noteworthy thoughts. He calls never-forgetting “eleventh commandment, ” “a term of war. ” Burger says that it is not about pitiful commemoration of the victims and the actual inextricability of the memory of those who have escaped from the horror, but about their active production and reproduction. He goes even further and says that makes it possible to beat out of the past unhappiness endless moral capital. This is a very essential point that reminds us of something else, namely that it was a civilizational achievement to forgive and forget after conflicts and not always to follow the myth of memory and always to keep each other's tooth around tooth, eye to eye. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thus the hatred should be eased and peace guaranteed. After wars and civil wars, it has therefore been repeatedly decided to agree on the acts, crimes, murders, massacres, enslavements, deportations, regardless of the degree and quality of forgiveness and oblivion. I would just like to give a historical example of what you should also think: Ludwig XVIII. has passed a law that prohibited the memory of the terror of the revolution – and thus even the murder of his brother – for the purpose – I quote literally, “to re-connect the chain of times”. For a forward-looking and non-returned policy, the House should deal with these thoughts.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12625	The debate is closed. I agree with the motion 9/A to the Committee on Culture. [[15:39:50]] 8. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Criminal Code (16/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12664	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first is the applicant, Mr Mag. Steinhauser, speaking for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12697	Ladies and gentlemen! Under the Black and Blue Government between 2000 and 2006, the UN Convention against Corruption was ratified here in Parliament with the votes of all parliamentary parties. Last year, then, it was so far to implement this UN convention into a law in Austria. There has been a draft of the Federal Minister Berger, in which very detailed sanctions for corruption for officials and for the private sector have been established. At the time, the Federal Minister made a mistake: It has asked Parliament to have the criminal provisions concerning corrupt Members negotiated with the judges themselves. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Right!]] This has then happened, and SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ have formed a cartel of mildness, namely mildness for corrupt and criminal Members. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Green!]] - No, not the greens. We voted against your own initiative, Mr Donnerbauer, who came under your leadership. The Greens were the only ones who have tabled an amendment to your completely unsuccessful proposal for an initiative. But the fact was: The cartel of the milde for corrupt Members from the four other parties voted in favour of our amendment at the time. Her request at the time, Mr Donnerbauer, and the request of the other three judges was totally toothless. At the time, they were only punishing the purchase of votes. And you know that no one in this house is so stupid that he sells his voice. That's not how it works in practice. This crime was deliberately toothless; it was deliberately about keeping the crime stock tight in order not to touch the area that is the real problem in Austria, namely the swamp of patrons, lobbyists, party donors, you didn't want to touch. Therefore, you have not been launched and have not deliberately implemented the UN Convention against Corruption in Austria this December 2007. Only two months later – see! – flatters an opinion on the legal and legislative services of all club members. And what is determined? – In fact, these corruption provisions belong to repairs because they have not been implemented. The opinion shall end with the following sentence: In summary, it should therefore be noted that further criminal offences concerning elected officials should be created in order to fully implement the current UN Convention. - Quote. This opinion obviously made all clubmen disappear in the drawer except the Greens. Nothing happened again. And then, at the end of May, something quite interesting happened: The “Kronen Zeitung” and the ORF have discovered – with a little delay – that the four parties ÖVP, SPÖ, BZÖ and FPÖ have protected themselves as the cartel of the mild with a very gentle anti-corruption status. And see: Suddenly, some wake up! One of them was Mr Westenthal, who obviously cannot hear this. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler is in the back banking series of the BZÖ Group.]] In the “Kronen Zeitung” a Mr. Karl Ulrich asks the question: Why should a strict anti-corruption law not apply to Members? And what does Mr Westenthaler say here in December 2007 against any form of a more severe crime? He says: The BZÖ calls for: Stop political privileges! MEPs are no better than other Austrians and should therefore not be preferred. The incomprehensible privileges are the key to why people no longer trust politicians. – As far as Mr Westenthaler is concerned in the “Kronen Zeitung”. Talking and acting is obviously not the same with you. Act: Mild for criminal delegates, talk: in the “Kronen Zeitung” but quite different. The “Kronen Zeitung” and the media have removed themselves from this topic again, and that has done the subject again. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (returning to his place) Now I'll be right back!]] – Stay You're quiet, that's good, because today you have the chance to correct your 2007 mistake or to do so in the judicial committee. – The subject was gone from the media, and the MEPs didn’t want to know about it anymore. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just a few quotes from you!]] ==References== September 2008 – You know, a memorable meeting –: All the coalition constraints have fallen. There has, in turn, been a Green motion for a resolution: a right of corruption for Members who comply with the UN Convention. What happened? – The cartel of the milde has closed again. SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ voted in favour of this request. [[Abg. Neubauer: It is nice that you are not with the cartel! That's beneficial!]] From the media, from the point of view – that's how you can summarize it. And this shows the way in which Austrian politics deals with exactly that sensitive grey area that the UN Convention wants to resolve: sharp anti-corruption regulations. For all professional groups – for officials, for the private sector – only not for a professional group: for Members – the four largest parties now agree. That's exactly the problem. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: That's absurd!]] – This is not absurd, which is the current legal situation you decided here in December 2007. We'll see if you learn from all of this. Today there is the Greens' own-initiative proposal, which has only one purpose: to implement the UN Convention. I have certain hopes in Mr Stadler. There is an advantage: He was not in Parliament for a year, that is, he does not know all the stories that have been discussed here. Maybe he's a little unbiased about the thing and brings a little wind into the thing at BZÖ. And maybe there may even be an unusual alliance here to eliminate this corruption stat stock. What does our request include? – In addition to the already existing purchase of votes, which will continue to be punishable, our request is to be fined if benefits are derived from the fact that a certain voting behaviour of other Members is affected. And the famous “feeding ” is to be punished as second. I am curious about how the debate is going. I have to say one more thing: Two parties were always consistent. That was us and the EIA, because the EIA was always against any transparency, against any control, against any anti-corruption clause. I have to leave that to you. It is exciting at BZÖ and FPÖ. There you hop back and forth. [[Abg. New builder: As with you in the EU!]] If the light of the public shines on BZÖ and FPÖ, then you are anti-privileged fighters. When the light is gone from the public, you become a little privilege rider. In this sense, there is one objective: to eliminate the non-implementation of the UN Convention here and to create a proper, Europe-wide anti-corruption law for Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12832	The next item is Mr Pendl's speech. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12882	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Steinhauser, either you want to regulate the whole thing or we're going to clean up populism here. I think we are committed to the matter, and I would point out that this House has enough self-esteem that Members here know what they decide for themselves. We don't need from outside any draft that we then take 1 : 1. Let me also say the following: I am convinced that the proposal was certainly meant by everyone, but we have been facing problems for months now, not in the parliamentary sector, but in the other areas. Because Mr Westenthaler looks at me: In the sports area, everyone comes and says we have a murder problem. We have a problem in the cultural field, we have a problem in the arts field. It is. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Salzburg Festival!]] That is, we know about these questions, and if we want to deal with these questions seriously, I invite everyone to do so: Let us learn from the experience of the last 11 months! The law is with 1. In January of this year, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Let's see that we're putting this into a new order. Then we will discuss these issues together in the Committee on Justice. Let's stick to it! I believe that then everyone in the Republic, all the staff and the mandates, is really helped. Let us try not to “populate away ”! I would like to invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12917	Mr Mag. Donnerbauer is the next speaker to speak. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e12938	Madam President, My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Steinhauser, I am actually sorry that, after a year and a half, you are now obviously planning on slipping into the populism rail, as my previous speaker has already stressed – and together with you, the entire Green Club. With objective work and arguments, what you have now commanded us to do has nothing at all. I would like to point out to my group, but also to all the other Members of this House, the appearance you want to raise here, namely, that by the corrupt Members who are now to be proposed a barge, we have to go back to the very sharpest. That's not the case! [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course also from my part and from my group, a clear no to corruption – no matter who and whose favor such a thing takes place; this is perfectly clear and is beyond dispute. We have tightened the rules on corruption, and now we have to go back to them. to be sharpened and evaluated. And: a clear yes to the free mandate of the elected representatives here in the House, in the Federal Council, in the countryside and in the councils. What you ask of the Greens with your proposal would clearly limit this free mandate very, very strongly – and in reality make it impossible to exercise what I will also justify. You have stated here that in your proposal the acceptance of an advantage – or even the promise of an advantage – for a particular act or omission, for all the actions that we as Members have to make for the influence on voting behaviour or even on the exercise of the mandate – so I address these so-called feeding paragraphs – would lead to a term of imprisonment of up to three years. What does that mean in practice, Mr Steinhauser, and ladies and gentlemen of the Greens? – But no more and no less than that in the future every representative/mandater would be forced to justify his/her will-building, his/her decision-making and activities here in the House, as well as all other political activities, before a court, stand before a judge and justify why he/she considers why he/she is voting in a certain way or not. This is in no way compatible with the free mandate, Mr Steinhauser. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] A judicial “curate” for the exercise of the free mandate is not in the sense of inventors – and does not correspond to our constitution! - First problem. Second problem: If, as you imagine from the Greens in your proposal, any advantage that anyone can promise would lead to a criminal act, it would also mean that if a citizen promises you the vote for a certain action, for a certain project, for a certain legislative initiative, you would no longer be able to argue. You should not have any influence on the formation of will, because this would have been an advantage to you, Mr Steinhauser – and an advantage would have been the issue of a vote for a party or for a candidate according to your proposal. In addition, this provision does not fit into our political system by having here in the house – for good reason – I say, and I stand by it – not only a parliament of professional politicians, but one in which members of different professions work. How should a official or employee of a representative of interest, or a elected mayor, who will also receive compensation, represent the interests of his community here if, as you wish, he is punished by the Greens?- Oh, my God! They demand that someone who is paid for something who has an advantage in representing the interests of his organization also here in the House, that he influence the formation of will here, be imprisoned for this! We are not available for this, Mr Steinhauser – and we are not going to be left at the corner for it, that we are not for transparency, but for corruption! No, it is not, but the regulation you are proposing here was already far overrun at the beginning of this year – and today too – and this would seriously endanger the political work of the Members here in this House. For this we are not available from the ÖVP. We have reached a sufficient solution with the rules on the purchase of votes in order to punish Members – and we are certainly not at our disposal for a green mood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13037	Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer is the next speaker. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13059	Madam President. High house! Right ahead: We too will not agree to this Green Initiative – and it is also appropriate to address this matter with a little less excitement than the Green Initiator presented it here. This matter has already been adequately and seriously debated. The term “official” of the UN Convention does not have to do with the Austrian term “mandatar”! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: That's not true!]] This crossroads point, so to speak, which occurs in the UN, namely from various legal movements from all over the world, is not very similar to the Austrian legal situation, which provides for the independent Members to be constitutionally independent, and therefore falls Their entire excitement building together from the point of view. In a discussion on this, I did not receive an answer in the previous legislative period to the following question: Where has there been a single historical example in Austria in this context? – This is completely unknown to me, and even if one researched, at least in the Second Republic, there was no such thing at the level of the National Council, not at the level of the Federal Council, not at the level of a country day or a municipal council. – In parentheses: It's supposed to be – it's supposed to be! – at the municipal council level, something bad has been given at some point, but no one can say it in concrete terms. In any event, there has been no case that would call for such a provision to be introduced here. By the way, too much of the surplus has been done with the last novel of § 304 StGB. We hear the most massive complaints. All know the problems that have arisen in this context in the area of sponsorship, such as at the Salzburg Festival. No more cards may even be distributed to sponsor companies. And this goes deep and wide into socially perfectly flawless systems, where people are afraid now, because they have handed over a secretary who has always been diligent, a little attention, a Bonbonnier, for example. - That's absurd! Every person knows exactly where the difference between corruption and small attention lies, as is the case in every country in a discreet and serious way. This is about a style of human identity that has developed culturally – but it is quite problematic to go into the area where real sponsorship, on which many cultural activities depend, is supposed to be disrupted, so to speak, towards crime. In reality, it is like this: We just need to re-adjust that. With the takeover of the German voice purchase paragraph – one really cannot say that the Federal Republic of Germany is a third or fourth world country, where things are not legally in order – we have taken the right measure with the overwhelming majority of the House. And this does not have to do with immeasurable privilege. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13108	Mr Mag. Stadler is now speaking. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13130	Madam President. High house! Mr Steinhauser, if you can explain to me how the problem you are facing is to be set by a specific example, then we can talk about it, but I do not know now that this House has had the problem in recent years or decades that votes have been bought. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: That's not the point!]] What's the point then?- Oh, my God! You have to buy 92 votes to get a majority in there – and that would happen to anyone, wouldn't it? – 92 Members of Parliament should “feed”! Don’t be fooled by the look; that’s not so easy with the “food ”! – I am glad that I was put on a diet again, because otherwise I was under criminal suspicion with you. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] I'd be interested in how to hide something like that. There is also a need to “feed” or bribe Parliament clubs in order to produce a voting behaviour in the desired sense. I would also be interested in how you imagine that the court, as you said, should therefore come and determine: They should have voted differently; Your free mandate does not interest the Council of Ministers, but now the Council of Ministers will tell you how you really should have voted! That's what I'm looking at! And I'm looking at that with the greens! Maybe you can do the example: How do you vote in favour of the admissibility of donations if the Greenpeace is to benefit? Is that a question of “federation” that Greenpeace people then choose you? So let us look at the Council, Mr President, once again at the Court of Justice, which then determines whether you should have voted in favour of the so-called great coalition in order not to be suspected of being in favour of Greenpeace. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] I just want to show you how absurd your argument is! – No, that is not possible; there is no verifiable causality. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Please explain to me how this should be done! – It looks as if this passage has written someone who has no idea of the practice. So I wonder how the judge should determine how he's supposed to produce the causality. [[Abg. Wheeler: Case Law!]] I also wonder what specific cases have led to a wrong vote in the past. Corruption is primarily and weightily a problem on the executive level, but not on the legislative level. This is something that Austrian parliamentarianism has shown. [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] Of course! [[Abg. Oils: Be careful!]] Where decisions are taken, in particular award decisions, and they are not taken here in Parliament, there is a vulnerability to improper decisions to express them carefully, and to corruption – but not in Parliament! However, in one point your request already has a salary, and that is the sentence where it is said that it would be useful to create a comprehensive and transparent party donation law. – Yes, but you did not propose anything! I am in favour of re-examining the question of party donation. And we also have a case. We have a party that was practically pleading, then some Georgian mafiapate appeared, and at one time this party was able to make the most expensive advertising and poster campaign of the last National Council election campaign. It's a mystery! That's what you're wondering! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then the party leader of this party is addressed by an independent journalist in the ORF, and he says: No, no, that's not all true, we would have liked to have demented it too, but we haven't had a speaking time anymore!, as if the actual correction – and now even Mr. Strache – was a question of speaking time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Wolfgang Großruck, you're going to give me a hand, that's not a problem of speaking time, is it? [[Abg. Grossruck: No, not at all!]] Look! Otherwise we would have to ask the President. But Mr Strache already knows that, so he was just looking for the next loophole here, so to speak, and he was behind the Rules of Procedure. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen: There is a party that has made the most expensive advertising and poster advertising campaign in the last National Council election campaign and cannot explain how it has done this with its debts! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's the problem! And there is actually to investigate what Mafiapats from Georgia do with this party – millionaires, mafiamillionaires who have found asylum here in Austria and are being sought criminally in Georgia for serious capital crimes. “Capital” in this case, however, means, please, murder and attempted murder and not flow of capital, so that you do not misunderstand it – Mr Steinhauser has already lost himself again. This is about the fact that mafiapates are obviously a source of interest. In connection with this problem, however, the colleague Fichtenbauer has not lost any syllables on this matter. He has known these Mafiapates for a very long time, because he has had a bank together with him, which is then broken down in a spectacular way, namely the Trigon Bank. That's why he knows the mafia from Georgia called Levan Pirveli very well. And this mafiapate goes out in a club and enters. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's a taste question! So I'd be careful not to go out and go in with Mafiapats. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (showing Dr. Graf, Dr. Fichtenbauer and Neubauer) All three!]] I know, I've already seen it, so I also called it by name, so he can dementate and say that the Mafiapate was not a Mafiapate at the time when he knew him, but was simply and simply someone who brought a bank to a collapse with him. I also have the appropriate opinion of the Ministry of Finance here. I am already looking forward to the debate on this. The fact is that it is to be examined why Mafiapats go out and enter a group of this House and why it is possible that a party is able at once – that is mysterious! – to make the most expensive poster series of an election campaign, to make the most expensive ad series of the election campaign, in the order of about €5 million, knowing – I know it in detail – that this party was in fact so pleading at the beginning of the election campaign that it even tried to find candidates who paid their money for the candidate. That's the facts! I am already looking forward to the actual correction of Mr Fichtenbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13309	Mr Fichtenbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions: first of all, the corrective situation, then the corrected one, and all this in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13333	Mr Stadler has claimed that the Freedom Party received and received a Mafiapate, and that this money came from it and that I had known these Mafiapats for a long time. – That’s wrong! First: I didn't know and know any mafia. Secondly, At the Freedom Party, no Mafiapats from Georgia enter and leave, let alone that they would receive money from Mafiapats from Georgia for poster actions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13368	Mr Gahr has now come to speak. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13389	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should now return from the Mafiapats to the content of this motion. For all of us here in the House, this request is actually not very useful. It is only about punishment, bribery and corruption, and it is about cartels and swamp today. I believe that we all have the free mandate to serve here, and that is why it is in all our interest to maintain control and transparency here. In this proposal, the word “strafe” occurs fourteen times, and it therefore seems to me as if we should all be held accountable here. Mr Steinhauser. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Steinhauser for his excellent report. We all have transparency here, we are elected mandates. It applies to each of us that we clearly explain the incompatibility of mandate and profession. However, it is also a matter of our commitment to the concerns of citizens. The “Salzburger Festspiele” has already been mentioned here today, and in this context I ask you, Mr Steinhauser: Have you ever been invited to a festival, a cultural event or a sports event? I mean, as a whole, we also have a duty to act representatively. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser nodds.]] In addition: You can't question everything. I am quite clear that there should be limits, for example in the case of gift adoptions, but it is not up to us as Members of Parliament to be criminalised for everything we do and implement in the exercise of our parliamentary duty. One thing is quite clear: There are advantages there and there, but there are also disadvantages in the exercise of the free mandate, and therefore it is important that we continue to develop here, that we discuss that we do not criminalise ourselves and that our free mandate does not get into a shaky light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13440	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the request 16/A to the Committee on Justice. [[16:07:35]] 9. Point First reading: Request by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the Banking Act (77/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13483	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13514	Madam President. High house! The matter referred to us has, I believe, been a failure, something that was simply overlooked when this law was passed on. If the housing communities have funds at a bank that are parked for the same ones, then it is, I believe, right and cheap that the citizens also have a full deposit guarantee, because these are the savings of people who have acquired housing property under the housing benefit law, from people who have laboriously saved a dwelling and cannot afford to do more than that. They are therefore dependent on the fact that the funds that are invested in a bank or parked for the housing owners' community there are also covered by an unlimited deposit guarantee, as is the case for private persons, natural persons and SMEs. I believe that a simple reference or a simple provision, namely that housing owners' communities are treated in the same way as natural persons, would close this gap within the meaning of the Housing Property Act. This would not be an unfair thing to make the real non-rich owners of a property equal to SMEs and natural persons.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13545	The next item is the speech by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13568	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the name of Mr Westenthaler is here on the request. But apparently it makes sense for you, honourable Members, not to express this concern here, because I would be surprised if you could sell it in Simmering, so to speak. There is an open debate on this request, and we will see in the Committee how it is argued. However, I do not know why there are housing owners' communities here, because it is not about saving money for the acquisition of property, but about its administration. And I also do not know why there can be no equal involvement of housing associations and other administrative groups. I can't imagine what the factual justification should look like, why you're particularly highlighting housing owners to other tenants – tenants, for example, who pay the deposit. In fact, the deposits would have to be secured. So I have a relatively big problem to recognize the appropriateness of the BZÖ here, and not everyone else. I am already very excited about the arguments and must say: I am very critical of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13598	Mr. Dr. Sonnberger is now speaking. I'll set the clock to the desired 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13620	Madam President. High house! The present legislative proposal proposes the equal treatment of owners' communities in accordance with § 2 para. 5 WEG with natural persons as entitled persons in accordance with § 93 ff Banking Act in case of deposit guarantee. From the basic point of view, I find it comprehensible and correct that you also think about this group of persons. But you have to look a little more closely. They argue that the accounts of the owners' communities are savings, i.e. savings deposits. That's actually not true! They are not savings, because savings are money deposits that are not for payment transactions but for investment. There I refer to § 31 para. 1 of this law, where it says: On the other hand, the amount of reserves booked on the ownership of credit institutions is intended to cover the payment of construction measures on the property property, which are not calculated on the basis of house operating costs. – That would be an argument that is also cited by the Ministry of Finance. Second argument: The ownership communities referred to in WEG 2002 are not limited to natural persons as co-owners, but also other legal entities, legal persons, can become residential owners. If, therefore, the position would be that the reserves of a community of owners are regularly limited to the trust accounts of several natural persons, it is not quite true either. There is, moreover, a directive on deposit guarantee systems at EU level, 94/19/EC, which is intended to initially increase to 50 000 and from the end of 2011 to 100 000 such deposit guarantee. That too is an argument where one could say that this could be included in the discussion. I can also refer to the Government Convention on Wohnrecht, point D.9. The Court of Justice has referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 107(1) of the EC Treaty by the Court of Justice of the European That's what it says: “The deposit to be deposited on savings” – what Mr Jarolim said – “are to be guaranteed by law in the context of deposit protection and any risk of insolvency.” I believe that we should approach this problem at an objective level in the Committee and seek a common solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13665	Now comes Mr Mag. Steinhauser. Also 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13686	Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that the owner community is not included in the bank package in the deposit guarantee. And that's a mistake – no question! Even the arguments put forward so far do not convince me, because the tenant who puts the deposit is usually doing so via a savings book, and the savings account is naturally secured through deposit guarantee – apart from the fact that the deposit is likely to be less than € 20 000. In Austria, there are around 450 000 housing owners, a relatively large group, and housing owners' communities are mostly made up of natural persons. This is the country's classical financial middle class. The least residential properties are real estate companies. The owners of housing are therefore much, much closer to the reality of the small savers than those large financial firms, and therefore, I believe, it is sensible and correct when they are equated with the savers in terms of deposit protection. The question is why they have not been taken into account in the bank package. Either it was a political will – then it was a mistake! Or it has been overlooked – then I hope that not more sluttings are hidden in this bank package.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13717	Mr Linder is now speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13738	Madam President. Appreciate High House! At the time of the economic crisis, it is a very important point to put in place psychological measures to give citizens security to show them that crises can be overcome. The Banking Assurance Act was an important step in itself, although the implementation of this law remains to be desired. In addition, I believe that there has already been enough criticism today. Legal action must be taken urgently, and this is the deposit guarantee for private savings. It is very important to include in this deposit guarantee the deposits of private owners within the framework of ownership communities within the meaning of the Housing Owner's Act. These currently have no legal certainty for their deposits. In times when we actually demand private responsibility, where we try to motivate people to be responsible for themselves in their own field, we should Just people who have saved money for their apartments so that they can make repairs, for example, give security. It is important that they know that their deposits are also secured. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we are very clearly demanding that in the case of mergers of citizens who are self-responsible, the funds remain secure, that these citizens bear no risk and do not have to fear that this money will be lost.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13786	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 77/A to the Financial Committee. [[16:17:44]] 10. Point First reading: Request by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the Income Act 1988 (78/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13829	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Windholz. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13856	Thank you, Madam President. High house! A change in the income tax law with regard to loss of donations, I believe, has also become a matter of political credibility. The many volunteers who shape and shape this country rightly have great expectations, since there was a general commitment of all five party leaders of the parties represented here in Parliament immediately before the National Council election. We from the BZÖ have already tabled a request; it is now available from all the political groups. All in all, you have to say: It is really time to solve these things in a consistent way, so that we can keep a word with the many people who are excellent in this republic. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We aim to extend § 4 of the Income Tax Act to the field of Mildness, Development Cooperation and Environmental, Nature and Animal Protection. We have provided for this enlargement in our request. Mild activity includes humanitarian, social and charitable activities. We are also making it clear that, in the sense of the BAO, donations to all major services classified as non-profit areas, such as health and social services, as well as rescue and health services, are covered by tax deductibility. I should like to stress once again that we now have a time when, for example, “light in the dark” is up-to-date. [[Abg. Big Truck: Christmas time we have!]] This should lead us all to realize that it would also be very time for a deductibility in this area. Again: This is a matter of political credibility, and we hope that we will achieve a common outcome as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13899	Mrs Bayr would be the next speaker, but she is not present and therefore does not speak. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13923	Thank you, Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners to the galleries! We have already discussed this subject in detail one and a half hours ago. The possibility of tax deductibility of donations has been a major concern of the aid organizations for years. In view of the more financially difficult time for many people and the associated lower amount of donations, Finance Minister Pröll gave green light on the weekend – all of you have heard – and promised to amend the Income Tax Act. Of course, we are very happy to live up to this promise. But I can also ask the opposition for a little patience, because in the next few days there will be a summit of donations. The most important changes are to be discussed with the institutions concerned so that the availability of donations can become reality as soon as possible. In this context, two points must be taken into account for the EIA: Firstly, there must be no abuse. The fact that letterbox associations are quickly established and then, at all events, tax fraud is not the purpose and purpose of our proposal. For example, a solution would be that only donations can be made to those charitative organizations that have existed for a certain period of time – for about three years – and can be tested regularly. Secondly, there must be a clear line. There is a need for clear criteria for which organisations are included in the circle of those who are favoured by the tax deductibility of donations now envisaged. Whether there should be a donation seal – as suggested by the FPÖ – will be discussed at the Donation Summit. It will also discuss today's request submitted by the BZÖ, which is, by the way, wordable with that request made by the Greens, which has also been postponed. The Ministry of Finance will escape around €80 million annually, but from our point of view this money is very well withdrawn. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Clearly, it is clear to us that we now need to help quickly so that aid projects can be continued as before. In particular, support should be given to those organisations whose aid directly benefits people. The motto is for me and for us: From people to people. To what extent – you allow me to object; Mrs Glawischnig is no longer here, it seems that the issue is no longer as burning for her – donations for environmental and animal protection organisations will be removable in the next few days. Even though she calls the proposal for concentration on poverty reduction – I can quote Mrs Glavischnig – “desaströs”, We can live very well with this improvement, with this milestone. To demand a broad disbursement of donations is good and right; However, costs and benefits must, I believe, be carefully balanced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his provocation and the coalition partner for his support. I believe – and I am optimistic – that at the Donation Summit we will find a reasonable solution that is portable and financeable for all parties so that we Austrians can continue to have the very beautiful title to be Donate World Champions. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e13996	Mr Vock has now come to speak. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14018	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me lose a few words on agenda item 9: The development of the housing market is becoming more and more away from municipal and cooperative apartments, ranging from cheap apartments to residential properties. Each tenth building is a residential building with three or more flats in ground floor buildings; these large floor buildings already belong to 54 percent private owners. That you can forget about such a large number of citizens in a fast banking package! – Obviously, you can do it if you decide very quickly. Of course, we welcome this private provision on the one hand. – It is nothing else, because the creation of private property in real estate is a private provision. But there are also numerous problems, especially for young families who cannot afford these high rents or high purchase prices. Now to the actual item on the agenda 10: Haven't you ever been annoyed by this – I know it from many citizens – that a politician on TV or radio says great, a donation volume is doubled by the state? – That sounds very generous, that sounds very simple, but at the end of the day it can only do so because these donations, which are toiled to collect, must first be taxed by the taxpayers. [[Abg. Bookbooker: tax money!]] That is, they are mainly taxed first, ideally at 50 percent. That is, even if the state generously doubles a package of donations, then in one case it says yes, in the other case no: Where a top politician is invited and it doubles, there it is just doubled, and in the other case it is not. This created a certain injustice. This injustice also exists in the tax system, as entrepreneurs can charge grants to charitable associations under certain conditions as tax expenses. If the entrepreneur is mentioned – and so on – there are certain conditions for that, he can stop it. We politicians even have it in our effort compensation: If it is a donation in the constituency, let us even replace it with Parliament. But the private citizen cannot include it in his income tax statement? – We support the donations of our citizens, and we create fiscal justice! [[Abg. Großruck: That's where he's insulting himself!]] Donations must be deductible under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14069	Now comes Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14091	Madam President. High house! I would like to continue with the issue of the deductibility of donations. We have heard today that a lot has already been discussed and that there are already some drafts. – However, nothing has passed yet, and nothing has yet been implemented. Especially now, in times of the economic crisis, it would be necessary to implement this deductibility of donations, because especially the non-profit organizations are under massive pressure – especially those who finance themselves exclusively through donations. Donation decreases of up to 20 percent are feared. This means a massive reduction in financial resources, if not even a threat to the work of these organisations. I think there is no doubt that NGOs are also doing valuable work for our society. Mr Cap mentioned today in a different context that one should finally stop separating ecology and economy from one another or playing against one another. I am already wondering why other NGOs are now being separated from other NGOs and not to be taken into account, especially in this area of environmental protection NGOs and animal welfare NGOs. I actually do not understand that environmental protection and human rights should be played against each other. When I think about the NGOs in the environmental field, which are massively committed to climate protection measures, this is also a matter of human protection, because more and more people are becoming poverty through the use of climate change, and in Austria too, social weaknesses are first and foremost affected by environmental impacts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The NGOs also provide advice for citizens who have to deal with environmental problems. [[Call the ÖVP:Where?]] Animal protection NGOs also provide advice on how to handle animals, for example for children. The animal protection NGOs are setting up funds for operations that some people may not be able to afford, for example, minimum pensioners. The animal shelters and associations do valuable work and perform valuable services for the general public. We have heard today that only the Wiener Tierschutzverein provides hundreds of cats, dogs and also larger animals such as alligators, tigers and monkeys. I wonder who will provide these benefits if they can no longer be provided there and who will take care of these animals. Many people appreciate the work of NGOs and therefore donate. But if there is a differentiation now that one can put off one donation and the other one can not, then the citizen and the citizen will think about who he or she is donating for. – There the animal protection and environmental NGOs are severely disadvantaged! Many appreciate the work of NGOs and therefore cooperate voluntarily. I think that this voluntary work should also be appreciated. Jobs are also under massive threat, as there are also some in the field of NGOs. So why should the environmental and animal protection NGOs actually be excluded? – The costs cannot be: 5 percent of the donations are in the area of environmental NGOs, 4 percent in the field of animal protection NGOs. I do not know if it is because the critical NGOs can be found in this area. I know from my own experience that if you are involved, you have to fight with repression, and what happened in the animal welfare sector last summer, I don't want to talk about it now. It is not to be seen that these NGOs should also be disadvantaged in the availability of donations. It is therefore not understandable why not even talk to all NGOs about a common draft, about a common law. Therefore, our demand is that you take all NGOs into account equally, do not take discrimination and also comply with the electoral promises you have made.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14130	Mrs Mag. Lunacek is now speaking. Also 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14152	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Following what my colleague Brunner has already said, I would like to address once again the debate that has now been heard here, between the point of view – that is also what the Federal Government has said – that we want to make donations for poverty reduction, where people are actually being helped, where poverty is actually being fought directly – that is, Mr Lettenbichler of the ÖVP – and the position that what civil society organisations are doing today is also very strong, namely trying to change the conditions and causes why people are getting into poverty, why the environment, the environment, for example, has to be protected, why it has to be protected, for example – in order to address another area – in development cooperation, development policy and not just aid. I have the impression that it is also a matter of weighing between the purely charitative – I do not want to underestimate this now, but it is very important and necessary to actually help people – and the approach to address causes, at the same time, to come critically to a federal government or to other institutions and to say that you have to change the causes and not only pick the patches there, where it hurts acutely. There seems to me to be the difference between what the government groups are planning now and what the NGOs are presenting in broad concentration. Believe me, it is also not easy for all of them to sit together and make a common proposal, as the Greens and the BZÖ have introduced it as a legislative initiative. – That seems to me to be the big difference. This also says – if you have read today’s “standard” – Amnesty International Secretary-General Heinz Patzelt. I have to say that even Amnesty would not be among the NGOs affected by the loss of donations. So if it is not a useful and humanitarian purpose to demand human rights, I wonder what belongs to it. – Heinz Patzelt said: Combating poverty works precisely through human rights and not through acts of grace. Helping in emergency situations is important and necessary; I do not doubt that, that is necessary. But especially as politicians and politicians, we are also called to see where the causes lie. It must also be our concern to support organisations that are trying to drill the causes and change something there, for example, on the ability to donate, and not only those who, if it is already hurt – what I have meant – to intervene. For this reason, I ask you to invite everyone to this fundraising summit – including environmental organisations, animal welfare organisations and, of course, all from development cooperation. These are not only those who actually provide local aid in the developing countries, but also those who do developmental education and information work in Austria, in order to eliminate the causes of the injustices between the North and the South also here and not only to help where there is nothing else to do but to help at the moment. That would be important and necessary, and if you consider it carefully, then I hope there will be another help, because these organisations need the money, and it is necessary that the donations are also deductible. But I can already point out the following: It must not go in the direction of saying that one makes the donations removable – that is right and good – and that one then says that one can now save on the subsidies, because the organizations can now collect donations anyway. – That, ladies and gentlemen, it must not be! Of course, smaller organizations are very afraid of that. In order to re-establish the field of development policy: State funds are needed to actually contribute to justice on this planet. You can't just look at the donations of individuals! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14212	Mrs Bayr is now speaking. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who has failed their speech!]] 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14244	That's exactly what it's doing, but now it's coming after. I know you're fading after that. – For you only: I think there is a very broad political commitment to making a little progress on the issue of donation-absorbing and in principle helping to reduce donations, especially with the focus on poverty reduction. There are also very different models in discussion for this, there are requests from different parties, but I think there are some central arguments or some central concerns that are quite common to all. The most important thing is to really send a strong signal to the population and say: What you are willing to do, what you are willing to donate, we also honor as a state and support it. This, of course, goes hand in hand with the fact that, in times of a difficult economic situation, it is feared that the proceeds of donations will be reduced. We know that very many NGOs who do very valuable work often depend to a very large extent – for the good – on precisely these donations. I also think it is clear to all of us that with this regulation we must definitely ensure that there are no new loopholes open, so that no one is unjustly penalised for tax amortization. This is clear, as well as clear, that certain quality criteria apply to these NGOs, which are to be given donations to be deducted from the tax. This includes, for example, the fact that they have been active for some time and are quite familiar with the fact that they can understand how their financial flows are, and that it is obvious that they really do serious work. But I also think it is a very important point, a criterion for favouring the donations they receive tax that they with their employees, with their own employees are fair to deal with, create good working conditions, for example, comply with collective agreements and join collective agreements. The Donation Summit next week, I hope, will help to ensure a good succus of many needs that stand in the room. Due to my own political experience and my political knowledge in the areas in which I am active, namely in development cooperation and environmental protection, I think that poverty control must also have a very broad approach, a holistic approach, and that in addition to charitable NGOs such as folk assistance, youth at work, children's villages or many other organisations, NGOs from the development policy area must also come to this opportunity, because they are fighting poverty, hunger, lack and real exclusion from participation in society, where it is particularly bad, namely in the south and with their activity, to make a very important contribution to poverty reduction and the enforcement of human rights, and also to the fact that there is a prosperous civil society that there is free media that there is strong opposition. I think that all this is part of an empowerment and a far-reaching poverty reduction. In addition, of course, there is also prevention of poverty in view of climate warming and in view of the fact that, as experts expect, there will be up to 250 million climate refugees in the coming years. These, of course, are people who are threatened with poverty, because they will simply lose food, water, crops, safe natural processes and will no longer be able to rely on their environment. I therefore think that, for example, climate protection and also there is awareness work here on site is very important and, of course, belongs to a holistic image of poverty reduction, also wanting to say that tasks such as climate protection, but also development cooperation cannot be left to donations and donors! Of course, it is primarily the task of the Community of States to solve this problem in solidarity. Nevertheless, where people are willing to spend, where people are willing to engage, we should also honour and support this civil society commitment as a state at a broad level, and we are doing so with a good, sensible solution to fiscal donation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14302	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 78/A to the Financial Committee. [[16:41:01]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Request by Mr Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Act on measures to ensure the stability of the financial market (Final Market Stability Act – FinStaG) (152/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14341	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. As the first speaker, Mr Themessl spoke with a welcome speech of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14371	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, during the current hour, we have already talked a lot about the financial crisis and the decided bank savings package or bank package, so I can save myself some details, but one thing is clear: It cannot be made available to billions of taxpayers in order to save Austria's financial centre and to support the banks, and it does not guarantee any say at all. Now we have heard that the European Union has not accepted the bank rescue package as it has been presented. – In other words, certain restrictions have already been made by the EU by not only increasing interest payments, but also establishing that the payment of dividends can, of course, only be made to a limited extent. – But what we demand is that we already have a certain right of participation, because it cannot be that we make billions of money available from the tax pot and then become a bit bitter to the banks when it comes to ensuring credit for small and medium-sized enterprises or for individuals. That's what we've already seen: We now have the case that the provision of credit to small and medium-sized enterprises is no longer guaranteed that the provision of credit to individuals is no longer guaranteed and that banks hear the money or invest it in the European Central Bank – as if it were safe. That is why our proposal is that we should, of course, secure a certain right of participation. If you remember that we are the only country that has taken note of and accepted without When and But the bank package that the banks have been looking at for us, and it is relatively quick and timely to protect Austria's financial centre and the banks in the face of this global financial crisis, it is also clear that the other countries have secured their participation. Take Germany, where there are very clear cuts in the amount of manager's salaries or in the payment of dividends, or remember that, for example, the UK is going to be so far as to speak of a partial nationalization of banks when it comes to securing taxpayers' money used there and ensuring that they are able to participate and influence themselves accordingly. – Of course, we expect that from this House. I invite you, in the Committee, where this issue is then discussed, to agree to the whole, which, of course, can also justify the taxpayer by not giving the banks the money, so that they can perhaps continue to speculate on the world financial summits or in the financial world, and that they can no longer guarantee the lending of SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises – and individuals. We simply expect this house to secure our participation rights. – I invite you to accept this request in committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14422	I call Mr Matznetter. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14443	Madam President. High house! Mr Themessl, I do not know what we should do: It is, in part, reasonable considerations that you are making, you just don't notice that these have already been implemented! - Maybe a little help: Part one: They want the Federal Minister for Finance to have an authorisation to impose restrictions on managerial remuneration. [[Abg. Themessl: Sure!]] – But he already has this empowerment! We will give you the Federal Law No. 382/2008, that is the regulation adopted in agreement with the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Buchstabieren!]] These have been available in the Federal Law paper for three weeks, and this is exactly what empowers him to conclude those contracts with the banks which, after the Commission's approval, are actually being issued in the next few days. You know what's in there? – For example, it states that there must be no bonus for these years, that there must be an appropriate fee, and the appropriateness... – The Minister of Finance must conclude, in accordance with the provisions of the law and the regulation, a contract which, of course, as a Treaty of the Republic, is subject to the control of the Court of Auditors – that is not in your application, but is the next thought you have – and that appropriateness of the fee must be agreed in individual cases. [[Abg. Themessl: And who checks this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: reasonableness? It depends on the party book!]] No, my colleague! A fairness refers to a small difference: For the Board of Directors of the Raiffeisenkas in Kleinsierning with a balance sheet total of €6 million, a different relationship will be appropriate than for those of the First Bank, for example, because the size of the institution is a completely different description of the job of the head office there. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Very precise! Very precise!]] – On the other hand, there will be no objection to the FPÖ either, I assume, because it is appropriate to carry out an appropriate course according to the size. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Part two: They would like to ensure that there is a provision of loans for small and medium-sized enterprises. – However, that is already stated in the law you have rightly agreed to, Mr Themessl! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Themessl.]] This is contained in the regulation and it is now contained in each of these Treaties. Where to Bring If it is a reality, do you make a request? May I allow myself to ask this question? [[Abg. Themessl: And why doesn't it work?]] – Because the contracts with the banks have not yet been concluded, as the European Commission’s notification has only been made today. [[Abg. Themessl: So it works from next week?- Oh, my God!]] – Could we explain the mystery? - Great! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We want a law and no decree!]] The third point, however, is: Compared to what the request says, you failed a lot four weeks ago, because you have agreed to a law that provides for loans not only to be granted to SMEs but also to private individuals! This is already stated in the regulation and in each of these Treaties, so that the content of the request you are trying to make for a reading is already a reality. There is nothing better for government parties than for opposition parties to make applications whose content has already been implemented because they can say: Great, we've done it already! - But I don't want to go out on that. We have all decided unanimously together, and we as a Parliament have done at least as well as your request, and that is why it is absolutely obsolete. – But thank you for your efforts, Mr. Themessl!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14591	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Ikrath. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14612	Madam President. High house! I can actually join Christoph Matznetters seamlessly, and I have already said it today, but there was Mr Themessl not in the hall, because he sometimes does not follow so closely what will result from his words – I “understand”, he has had more important things to do – it is always about a hold-and-a-breast debt. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:... Themessl always has something to do!]] Since he obviously does not want to redeem the debt he owes himself, in this case it is now a debt that I like to redeem. The first thing I would like to mention is the following: What we have been able to give to the Ministry of Finance by means of our legislation goes extremely far! Even pleasures of rest, which have been granted disproportionately or immoderately high, can be recovered, so this is clearly beyond the German rules. – I ask the FPÖ to go into the matter once before making, as today, applications that we have long implemented in the content, or make unsustainable claims! In Germany, these are mainly just targets and not requirements, as is the case with us. This makes the quality of our banking and financial market strengthening package unevenly higher than the German, because we have not designed it for the issue, but material-substantial. Our package also has the great advantage that it does not completely bureaucraticly bother everyone about a performance, which is why the banks in Germany hardly use it – with all the consequences that this can and probably will have; only the appeals of Mrs Merkel have to be taken into consideration – whereas we have a very flexible, very unbureaucratic package. As a result, depending on the risk situation of the banks – and it is logical to distinguish whether a bank is solid and only needs to be strengthened due to international development, or whether it is not – will allow banks and insurance companies to provide tailored to what they need. I call that an intelligent concept, and it is unacceptable for you to recognize it now. In any case, today's requests do not yet reveal that you have gone into the matter. I would like to recommend something more, this is instructive: The ‘standard’ of 15/16. November presented the complexity of crisis problems in a comprehensive way, in which the relationship between banks and companies is only a partial aspect. [[The speaker points to a graphic on a double page of the said newspaper]] I would also like to hand this over to you as my debt. We all have the interest to deal with this crisis in an objectively effective way. So you too are invited to participate in a constructive way, but also to acknowledge that you have agreed with us a law that is a truly successful package of reinforcements. We also invite you to participate in an adaptation of the risk criteria which are crucial for lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, namely the Basel II criteria. – It will be of little help if banks provide credit volumes – the First Bank has already announced that it will provide €6 billion – if we do not at the same time loosen the award criteria and pay attention to the credit rating of companies. A colleague of yours has said that we must follow the virtues of a decent merchant. Of course, this also applies to banks, because it does not make much sense to strengthen them now and drive them into a risk crisis afterwards. In this respect, I really ask you to see that balanced in the sense of our motion for a resolution today; we will still have the opportunity to discuss it. I would now like to present this graphic to you, because we are all interested in the fact that we are lagging the discussion in the sense of the entire economy – the companies, but also the banks.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14665	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14686	Thank you, Mr President. High house! When I listen to this, I want to break these things down to a simple denominator: That, for which I and also a large part of the population cannot understand, is that in the end billions are being pushed into a construction, while, when it comes to sustainable tax relief, there seems to be no more money at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is why many people in this country are asking themselves: How can it be that within a few hours a so-called bank rescue package of 100 billion can be implemented here? That is so easy to decide, and there is no money for the simple population? I would like to remind you of one in this context: It has also noted all the economists who were up to ten times the financial economy, the money economy, the so-called monetaryism in relation to the real economy. – I come from the economy, I offer products and services, and I lack any understanding, any belief that the financial economy can be ten times overwritten! Yes with what equivalent? – So this is completely incomprehensible to me! Yes, the FPÖ has agreed to this bank rescue package, but, as Bernhard Themesslund has already announced to some of my group, we have put conditions in place, including that very clear rules are introduced, that there are testing possibilities here. I do not even have the opportunity to carry out decisive tests! That is, a bank, whatever its name is, is calling billions, and in the end it is not exactly what comes out: If the money is fed to small and medium-sized enterprises, will it be fed to the small house-keepers who need it bitterly? – I have some examples here of where the small house-keepers already have The knife has been set several times where it is required to convert from foreign currency credits to euro credits. Why? – This is quite clear: With the euro credits, the banks of course deserve much, much more! What about small and medium-sized enterprises? – I do not know any smaller or medium-sized company that has up to now been able to take advantage of this so-called boosting and bank rescue package, and that can and must not be it, ladies and gentlemen, very much! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have already mentioned it, especially precarious is the situation of the little people, the house builder. Here I would like to ask our group to make clear statements as to how it continues. What happens to the thousands of people in this country who have been forced into any AWDs in this world? What happens to these people? You're gonna let her down? – On the one hand, banks deposit billions for their equity cover, on the other hand, people are left in the rain. I tell you, you finally act with speed, with impact, with sustainability! And far more important than distributing these billions here is that the tax system is finally being reformed in a sustainable way, that massive tax reliefs are finally coming. You are so proud of your 2-billion relief package. – We have considered a discharge package in the order of €6 billion. This is more important than ever, for which the FPÖ is acting. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14753	Now comes Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14774	Thank you, Mr President. [[The speaker turned to President Mag for confirmation. Prammer um.]] Today it's true; last time I had rejected myself. High house! Where are the Austrian banks focusing on Austria? – If you look at the average of local banks, you can see that it is less than 50 percent who focus on Austria, i.e. more than 50 percent of customers are abroad. If you look at the Bank Austria or the First Bank, which has been talking even more recently, it is true that even 84 percent of customers abroad can be found, i.e. only 16 percent of the customers of the First Bank are in Austria! This has to give us some thought, because this shows a symptomatic that has become more and more involved in recent years, namely that the Austrian banks – a comparison with the German banks: here there are only 10 percent “foreign focus” – have gone abroad more and more and our money, our savings abroad, have sometimes invested in very dubious projects. Let's take a look at the First Bank: This one bought the Banca Comerciala Romana about three years ago to say and write 3,7 billion €; the amount was already much too high. [[Call the ÖVP:Please?]] – Did you not understand? The amount was already far too high Many experts had already cried out at the time, and even Mr Treichl said that this high amount was paid because one wanted to enter a market where there was still little to buy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath]] – That was the reason why you paid a higher price. In the meantime, and that's what's going to happen. You probably also know that this participation is worth up to a billion more. That means that €2.7 billion has disappeared from this title alone. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] [[Abg. Bucher: That's incredible!]] – Yes, that’s really incredible, you’re absolutely right. That's really incredible, yes. [[New calls from the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] If you now think that the First Bank wants €2.7 billion or more from the State, then this is more than half of the stock exchange value – the First Bank is currently worth only €5.2 billion. That means we buy more than half of the First Bank with €2.7 billion! And what do we get for it? – We have no say, no insight, no guarantee that Austrian companies will receive credit. [[Abg. Krainer: A third less!]] Finally – and this has been mentioned many times today – we get a return, which is now 9 percent instead of 8 percent. Have you ever considered why the return is so high? - Because the risk capital is. This is also the reason why the European Union says that no, it must be 9 percent in order to picture the risk accordingly. That means there's a risk here, that's gonna be silent here. It always means that this would be a big profit for all of us, we could make massive money on coal. - If that's all right, yeah. Mr. Elsner also believed that if everything goes well... But if it's not good, we'll look good. [[Abg. Krainer: How was that with the Lord Culter? Take the example of hypo!]] That means we need to talk about a risk hidden here. Now the central question is what the Federal Government is doing. Did the Federal Government believe there were no bodies in the basement? [[Abg. Krainer: I don't know! I don't know where the hypo lies!]] Has the Federal Government taken insight into the books? Has the Federal Government commissioned an opinion to see if there could be any damage to the taxpayer? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] Did all of this happen? – No, it didn’t happen! That's the point. You can distract here as much as you want; in the end these are the central questions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It will be decisive whether the state knows the risk it poses here. And 100 billion €, ladies and gentlemen, are only 30 billion € more than our entire budget. Have you ever thought about that? That is, if it's not going well, the whole state is in Bredouille and with him the taxpayer. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So what we need is an extensive insight into the books. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What if they're wrong?]] We need an opinion on the potential risk and the bodies in the basement. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Look, there are professional reinsurers who do just that. A reinsurer guarantees the risk of default – and that's exactly what the state does. A professional reinsurer would never do as we do here. He would always know exactly whether there are bodies in the basement and if there are risks of failure that you do not yet know; only then would he invest. That's all I'm asking for. I demand nothing but that the state go here and do something reasonable, namely to find out exactly whether there are risks and whether they are feasible in any form. That's the point, that's all I'm asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14944	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e14967	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! To the application, to the applicants and to the previous speaker: Somehow it would happen if we agreed here in the House that some of the approaches or fundamental considerations that have led to this framework law – essentially such – are reasonable and correct and that we should now be able to re-adjust some things, perhaps even have to. [[President Neugebauer takes over the Presidency.]] But let us not always confuse the details with the fundamental considerations. I think you can believe that. It is certainly not the most important point in the bank package, what the possible limitation or future design of manager salaries will look like. This may already be popular and has a certain rational background; I'm going to focus on how to make sense. But, I believe, at least at first readings, we can allow this to happen in the debates, not to put the world from its feet to the head; that does not make sense – I say that to the colleagues of FPÖ and BZÖ. However, one should actually look at what the EU Commission has actually done about serious changes to the originally presented package of Austria – this is highly recommended. By the way, you would recognise that in this case, it is very reasonable that the European Union has intervened, not for the sake of prevention of privileges, but rather for reasons of preventing distortions of competition. In this case, this may also be very useful for the Austrian budget and for the Austrian taxpayers. To that end, you will also have to note that this was a matter in which more European Union was better than less than that one had the impression of doing so, right up to the economic packages that are now being bound up that one would actually need more precisely securitised institutions with clearer rules of action. It should be admitted that we are doing many reasonable things that are coming now, in addition to the rules that already exist – or in the case of the Maastricht agreements, perhaps even against the rules. However, it is certain that international institutions will not be able to do so in the whole area. A few reasonable amendments made by the Commission so that we can take account of this in our debates, as well as amendments and initiatives: In the meantime, it is assured that between – I say now in good German – “healthy” and “healthy” banks will be distinguished in the interest rate. I think this is very reasonable. It will be difficult enough for FIMBAG or the Ministry of Finance to deal with this. But this, of course, is the sad discussion, 8, 9, 10 percent interest rate versus 11, 12, 13 percent a little bit of the ground if it is able to estimate that. Speaking to the previous speakers from the BZÖ: I would not then lean so far out of the window, because I would be delighted to see how we have to judge the Hypo Alpe Adria in this regard. That's exactly what I'm looking at. I am not at all of the opinion that we must help with the full pool of the bank package. Isn't it true that long before the current financial crisis broke out, bad loans were in the balance sheet? Is it not true that there are potential borrowers there now who are trying to complain and place themselves, and still want to rip money out of them? want to benefit from the favor of the hour, which often does not correspond to the usual credit quality? I understand some of the bank directors of healthy banks very well if they do not want to continue this theater all the time. It must be kept in mind that now the winners of war and crisis suddenly do not jump on the train, which is now on the move. That is why I believe that we should now look closely at what the new package really has for points. Then let's keep looking what we want to improve. In conclusion, the manager's salaries: It is much more reasonable to delete the tax advantage of this whole thing, because we can do that here and now. I would suggest that everything about the Federal Chancellor's salary should no longer be tax deductible. That would be a reasonable compromise, as we also have, so to speak, a lead indicator from the reference pyramid, and on this basis we could then agree. We could try that.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15047	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment 152/A to the Financial Committee. [[17:08:40]] 12. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the State Prosecutorate of Graz (AZ 21 St 8/08t) for approval of the official persecution of Members to the National Council Dr Susanne Winter(18 d.b.) 13. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Procuratorate of Vienna (AZ 502 St 40/08a) for approval of the official persecution of the Deputy to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler(25 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15099	We now come to points 12 and 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. 15 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15129	Mr President. High house! Before I go into the subject matter, a brief comment on the actual correction made by Mr Fichtenbauer, who took place today. Fichtenbauer did not correct the fact that he did not know Mr. Pirveli, but he only corrected that he did not know a Mafia patent. But now it is remarkable – and I can prove that – that this is unfortunately a mafia-pate, which is sought in writing. Under the rule, Mr Fichtenbauer knows a mafia-paten named Levan Pirveli, with all of us wondering what to look for in the parliamentary club. We will continue this debate elsewhere. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now for extraditional desire in relation to the colleague Winter. Ladies and gentlemen, the official persecution of my colleague, Mr Winter, will take place because this accused criminal act took place before her entry into the National Council. That is to say, the Immunities Committee has denied the political context of temporis, which is why the official persecution is possible. There is no extradition in the narrower sense. I am personally of a different opinion. If one uses the telos of the provisions on immunity law, I see the political context much more, much more. I would have personally confirmed the political context, but here I bow to the saying practice of the Immunities Committee. I would, however, like to make two comments on the concrete accusation. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, as a religious person, I am convinced that even before the religious symbols of other religions, even though they are false, one has to respect them in principle. This appreciation also applies to the criminal law in force, in particular in § 188 of the StGB, according to which religious symbols and personalities or objects of worship are subject to criminal protection. That is why I believe that what Mrs Winter said in connection with Islam is basically wrong and objectionable. However, whether it should be prosecuted is another question. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now speaking in particular towards the Austrian People's Party. I know from my own practice – because I have already made an outraged Catholic advertisement myself – but also from my time in the People's Procuratorate, as complaining Catholics had turned to me when it was about the increase of the divine persons of the Catholic faith – the Trinity, Jesus Christ or the Mother of God – that the prosecutor has regularly terminated any procedure. They now appoint the Minister of Justice as the minister of justice when she will take office once. So if you see special criminal protection in Mr Muhammad – I say again: it is considered a protected personality of a legally recognized religious community against the background of the applicable criminal law and therefore enjoys criminal protection – then I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, to ensure that in future those divine persons who serve our Catholic faith in worship will also receive the same protection! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I know that many of you are of this opinion. I know that others disagree. In Islam, things are particularly critical because one fears to get, so to speak, “Danish states”; in one’s own religion, on the other hand, one can reduce what one wants, because it cannot be good and fat enough. Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you as someone who, together with other Catholics in this country, has already been affected by such acts and was also outraged that I put the hope in you and in particular in the future Minister of Justice – this is to be understood as an appeal – that you at least ensure equal treatment, namely that Catholics in that country can also rely on the fact that their religious symbols and divine persons are not allowed to be laid down and trampled down by any self-proclaimed “artists”, ladies and gentlemen, High House! That is our concern, which I would like to express today in connection with this extradition. [[BZÖ and Abg. Wheeler.]] To get it to the point – my colleague, Winter is not here now –: I don't think she'd have to be charged. I believe that there is a political context, but I am against the practice of the Committee that there is no political link here because the accused act took place before its entry into the National Council. I see a greater political context. I think that this is a bit problematic, because as long as the right of immunity applies, I think it should be treated immediately and see what purpose the immunity has. If you think that personal immunity would be abolished – you can also discuss it – and to limit immunity to a matter of fact, then I am very much in favour of that – because you can discuss it with me very openly and with great satisfaction, but as long as it exists, I think, politicians should be protected from access by criminal justice, if there is a political context, even if it has occurred before a Member's work in Parliament. Even more dramatic is the situation with the colleague Westenthaler. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask you to leave aside all your personal aversions, sympathys or antipathies to the colleague Westenthaler. Consider him only one of 183 Members! Mr. Peter Pilz, we've done the same abstraction work when it came to your extraditions, my dear. I have always argued that Peter Pilz in this country can say, report and reveal from this Rostra and also outside as a politician, whatever he thinks is right; because that is my expectation of a Member, especially to a Member of an opposition group. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I've always been on your side. As a matter of principle, I believe that the opposition must in particular have the opportunity to bring things to the point of discovering, clarifying, without having to fear, then to be put to death by a politically controlled power, namely the law enforcement authorities. This is a different access to democracy than some have in this House who misuse the right of immunity to exercise political arbitrariness and to pay for political bills. That is exactly the case with Mr Westenthaler today. He's accused of having a police officer on the 16th. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen, if that is the case: Imagine that some asylumist would have done that! The police would have had him arrested immediately, including Mr Westenthal, because of opposition to state power; this is a crime, after all, according to our criminal law catalogue. Three cops were there. They didn't dare to arrest Peter Westenthaler, this body-built device, ladies and gentlemen? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] No, they needed three hours until they even came up with the idea of writing an operational report. Then we moved into the country for another day. Then they came to the idea that you could actually view it. Then several days have passed until the advertisement has been forwarded to the prosecutor's office, ladies and gentlemen. And all of this from a police officer who is clearly a social-democratic officer. [[Abg. Grosz: Pfui!]] You see, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want anyone to assume that there's a control from any party secretariat – no, God knows that's far from me! – but some people believe that they can sometimes make themselves popular with their own party leadership if he is against an opposition politician, especially since Peter Westenthaler of the Social Democratic Party has been notoriety over years. [[Cheerfulness at BZÖ and FPÖ]] That's why he came up with the idea of repaying ad. But what would have been the next logic? The fact that he's gone to the doctor is that he's had knee pain. No, the police officer, Mr Inspector, has not gone to the doctor – neither to his family doctor nor to a settled doctor, nor to a hospital doctor, even to the official, ladies and gentlemen! That is to say, there is no objective finding – apart from the claim made by this Social Democratic police officer – that there is no physical injury at all, ladies and gentlemen; no human has ever determined objectively that there is an injury here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Mr Kopf, every other prosecutor would have closed the lid immediately and said that not even the injury is indicated, of course! We've had it all before. Mr Oellinger has given us the pleasure of even quoting cases where the lid has been closed immediately. No, Westenthaler's on. Then, in the run-up to the National Council election campaign, a great story is made of it. Then, obscene witnesses come. One of them is quoted today in “NEWS”, you can read that – in today’s issue, it is just distributed in the house. [[the speaker shall keep the said magazine up to date]] ‘NEWS’ now distributes copies to Members for free, otherwise nobody will. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the great obscene witness is quoted, who is supposed to have known in advance that there would be difficulties with Peter Westenthaler; when he entered, he already knew. So this folder, this main load witness saw Peter Westenthal go to the stadium and already knew: Oha, that's a case of resistance to state power today, there's a body injury coming out. He has already known all of this in his Hellenic ability, ladies and gentlemen! You can read that. This is only a part of what he has put on record. If that doesn't smell like political arbitrarily and politically, ladies and gentlemen, then I don't know what you still need! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Every other prosecutor would have immediately closed the deal and said: There's really nothing behind that, there's no flesh on it! – However, the prosecutor's office continues: The day after the discussion of this case in the immunity committee, Mr. Kopf, prosecutor Gerhard Jarosch goes here and says: Of course, he was a police officer. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrong! Lie!]] A smooth untruth! Either he doesn't know the act, that's what we want – no, that's not it. [[Abg. Head: That's not our job to check that out!]] Our task is to see the political context. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Conspiracy theories!]] We should see the political context and then take the decision accordingly. Here is clearly the efforts of the prosecutor's office to flick the colleague Westenthaler with a criminal procedure on the stuff. This is unmistakable, ladies and gentlemen, insurmountable! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Conspiracy theories!]] Would the Belt Strizzi Schmauswaberl be the accused without at all having an objective finding of the injury without a medical trial, without any medical certificate, without any real burden witness, in the event of a failure of the police who would have had to be arrested immediately, any prosecutor would say: There's something I've failed to do than pursue something like that. There's nothing wrong with that. My time and activity are too bad for me to pursue. – It is also a fundamental right of the citizen he has. The citizen has a right not to be subjected to a law enforcement that has no dirt. The same is true of Mr Westenthaler. [[Abg. Head: But we're not the prosecutor's corrective! That's not us!]] We are not the corrective of the prosecutor, but we have to check whether a colleague in this House – and now I say it again, I appeal to you to overlook who it is about! – whether to act politically against an x-voluntary colleague of this House, with political arbitrarily. And that is the case here, ladies and gentlemen. You can't save that from the prosecutor's office! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also say this in the light of the background: Make the effort, make a statistical evaluation of the extraditions that have taken place so far! You will notice the following: that there is first of all a conspicuous tendency to extradition with members of the opposition and a striking tendency to be non-delivery or even to withdraw from members of the government. - That's the first thing to notice. You can understand that. Second conspicuousness: There is a conspicuous tendency to deliver cases such as Peter Westenthaler or Peter Pilz and not to extradite others. You've had some extraditions, which I'd have seen differently. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Pilz]] I would have said that there is a political connection here; moreover, the Peter Pilz is well-known as a discoverer. I believe that this House also has the task of not using the right of immunity as a political arbitrator, ladies and gentlemen. Political arbitraryness is not a task of accounting for political invoices with individual Members on the right of immunity. I appeal to you, especially to those who participate in events where you can insinuate everything in the future. Imagine, the FPÖ once again has an 8th-May commemorative event at Heldenplatz. There are therefore a few left marginalizers. Some people then claim that he has been kneeled by Mr Fichtenbauer. – Will we then be extradividing, ladies and gentlemen, although no injury has been detected, although in reality the witnesses are talking nonsense? One witness says he left, the other one, he left to the right. This is the case with the colleague Westenthaler: One says he left to the right, the other says he left. They're not even in the clear direction in which he even drove! All of this would lead you to hand over to Mr Fichtenbauer, ladies and gentlemen? I am against the fact that immunity law is being used as an instrument of flaw and as a billing instrument against misguided opposition delegates, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, my appeal to you: Don't open the Pandora's boxes here! If you want every Member of Parliament to be able to be persecuted freely in the future, with every still so blatant claim of a police officer, be he now a political official or not, then remove personal immunity! Then it's honest, then it's an equal treatment. If you do not abolish them, but reserve them as a protection mechanism for the government groups and take action against misguided members of the opposition, you cannot spare the accusation of political arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15409	The next one is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15430	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is certainly a very important issue, not only from the point of view of those concerned, but also from the point of view of the House and of every Member and every Member. Let me make it clear: It is not at all a question of condemning someone politically, it is not at all a question of avoiding the right of immunity! Let's just stick to the facts! If we had implemented the wishes of BZÖ, there would be no extra-parliamentary immunity at all. Mr Darmann, when we discussed this, it was always a proposal from you to abolish extra-parliamentary immunity. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Then get rid of it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: To all!]] We never wanted that. The only task to be done is to assess matters, to establish a political context, or not to establish it. Let me start with my colleague, Winter. One can discuss a close or not close interpretation, Mr Stadler, but speaking practice has always been the connection with the election campaign. This situation, we agreed, was months before the election. [[Abg. Grosz: The ad has only come in the campaign! Take a pocket calendar!]] That is why, as I believe, this situation has been shared with us that no political link has been established. Secondly, on the case of Mr Westenthaler: I only draw attention to these cases, Mr Stadler – and we all know that together! – now, in this line of argument, we are discussing, apart from the political pre-condemnification, then we are also turning the 1979 novels around. Then everyone rides by car to the high house and says when they are stopped: I'm on my way to vote! – And it doesn't matter if he's driving too fast or whether he's been drinking or not. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a nonsense!]] – That's no nonsense, dear colleague Scheibner! All these questions stop again. There have been good reasons at the time why you have taken this path here. Mr Stadler, because you mentioned this: The police officer made his report correctly at night after entering his office. [[Abg. Grosz: You need to know!]] And, as with each of the politicians concerned, the report to the State Office for Constitutional Protection and Combating Terrorism has been made. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did he also report to you on Löwelstraße?]] – This call for action does not really have any relevance, because you will not believe that all the witnesses concerned and the State Office for Constitutional Protection and Combating Terrorism are all necessarily here in the... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Suspense!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Grosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we believe that we can construct a political context here if we all go together to the stadium or elsewhere and say that is all political opinion, then I invite you to a principle discussion on the interpretation of immunity in the future. I do not think that this is the right way, but I believe that, regardless of these cases – and perhaps it is possible between the political groups – we should also discuss cases that are not constantly imposed on names and persons in a very simple way, in order to develop the necessary proverbial practice for the future. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Immunities were, and will be an important part of the House and of the Members and of the functioning of this House. But I think, apart from the names, it is our task to determine whether a political relationship is given or not. We're not the justice, we're not the prosecutor, we're not the courts. If there may not be something that looks so beautiful for you, then justice is required to clarify that, not us. We only have to determine whether there is a link with politics or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15555	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15589	After all, it is very “loving. ” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They're still making fun!]] You can see what's going on in the SPÖ Group, Mr Krainer! Of course, you're in a bad mood now! I can already imagine that in party politics, there are now such jokes. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not a joke! That was a question!]] – Yes, but, Mr Krainer, I know many old-fashioned officials of your party. And some of you even know that at least I came from my family from your camp. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] Political immunity, the history of the immunity of Members has had a historical background. Your representatives, too, were often victims of political arbitrariness at another time, even before 1938. The criminal justice system has also been followed by Members of your group for party political reasons. The immunity of a Member has a historic right – but not to play justice. The Immunities Committee should not judge whether the Member has committed a crime or not – this is the case of the judicial system – but should decide whether a Member in his term of office – that is the difference in the assessment of the case of Mrs Winter – has a political relationship with his representative's activity or not. I mean, here, Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, one must not check the matter closely, but also all the circumstances that happen around it. Mr Pendl, you already have to make the accusation that you are there a little bit with scams and very one-sided arguments when you say: What does one do in a football court as a politician? That can't be political! – This is very interesting, because once we have discussed why the German Chancellor Gusenbauer has not been here in Parliament at a parliamentary session and has followed the debate and has been discussed with us, but has been at a football match at the stadium, you have said that this is in his capacity as Federal Chancellor, he also represents there, and that is quite all right. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] So it's all right for the German Chancellor to be in a football game, then it's not all right, then it's a private matter and has nothing to do with his political function! - Yes, great! [[Abg. Faul: He had the wife Merkel to visit!]] But is this a constitutional difference whether the Mrs Merkel is at a football match with Mr Gusenbauer or whether the sports speaker with perhaps 10,000 other Austrians is on a football match? This is really an interesting interpretation! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's what I'm telling you: If you think that immunity is really so party-political that you say: That's about the Westenthaler, hurra, we put him in, but maybe it's about one of us, then it's historically to see, the immunity is important, we have to protect our MEPs from political arbitrariness!, if you see that, then we'll really do it! We shall then make a request here, and we shall end the immunity of Members once and for all! Then there is no longer the discussion. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But that's really doubly. I know that there are Members and there have also been in the immunity committee who have had a very bad feeling about this decision. You know that very well. How to play the hot potato each other was to be seen: We'd talk anyway, but the others don't want to. Then it said: Well, because he said that and because it was so! – That cannot be political categories here on the issue of immunity, because what has been said and because it is about it! It's about the facts. And you know very well, if you look at the facts, at least there are strong indications that there is something wrong here, that this action has been very probably party-political and would be much too clear. Mr Stadler has already said that. There happens to be a police officer with a very strong party political background. By chance, the message is not made the same, but only after a few days. And everybody knows that, that's the lesson in the police school: If a police officer is injured, he will immediately go to the official's office and have it documented accordingly. It didn't happen by chance either. President Graf said at the meeting of the Immunities Committee that the honourable Member should have been arrested immediately. Did he have a privilege? I don't think so, do I? In any other case, there would have been an official act. Why did she stay there? This is also a curious thing in this case. The following was also interesting: Mr Oellinger said in the Immunities Committee that if there is a demonstration and there are greens in it and there are any violations, there is, of course, a political connection. The Immunity Committee has always seen it that way. Only if it concerns a Member of a political group who may not be so inhabited in the left spectrum, where one says that it is natural, that is a political context, then one sees it differently. I am therefore surprised, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, that you can vote in favour of this request by SPÖ, Greens and ÖVP. Because it's the same thing that you can meet next time. Maybe then you're a little less good friend of my colleague Cap and others. You, who you were sitting here in Parliament in the 1990s, know exactly what party-political campaign – with means of criminal law – we have been through house searches with eighty-year-olds – in these cases. That is why we all, together, have been successful in doing so. And now suddenly, because it's about one that you might want to wipe out, you say, Well, we will vote with the left again – and unfortunately also with the ÖVP, which apparently does not want to provoke new elections, because it is the case in this coalition pact. I really say to each of the Members: If you think that immunity should go away, then we say it quite openly and remove it! But as long as we have the immunity here that protects each of us, consider: No one knows what tomorrow, next year or in ten years, whether one of you or you or you is facing the problem of being unjustly prosecuted. This is also unpleasant for a normal citizen. The Court of First Instance will decide accordingly and, in such an unclear situation, certainly take an admissibility. But with a politician alone, extradition is a personal damage to him. And that seems to be the purpose of the whole thing. You should really think about this – every single Member – whether you, if it is not about Mr Westenthaler, if it is not about the BZÖ, but about one of yours, then you would have decided that way. If you think that you would not have decided so much, then think about how you are voting on this question now!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15688	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15709	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Scheibner, this last question I can answer quite clearly for my group and for myself: Of course, we would have decided as much as the name of the Member concerned would have been. I plead that immunity issues, because they are also particularly sensitive, because they are seen as a political privilege in the eyes of the population – we should not forget that too! – to be treated with particular sensitivity. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Let's take it off!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For everyone!]] There has to be a clear and consistent line, and it has also been observed in these two cases, which are here today. I would also like to address the hope of Mr Stadler, who said he was hoping for the new Minister for Justice. If your hope is focused on the fact that it conducts its official business objectively and impartially, your hope will be fulfilled. If the hope is that it will intervene in proceedings, I cannot fulfill your hope, and that is quite right. It will, of course, carry out its duties impartially and objectively. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's 188!]] But now to the two cases of immunity. I think it is important to say that both cases of immunity, both with Mrs Winter and with Mrs Westenthaler, are always the same question, namely: Is there a link to political activity or not? In both cases the question is to be answered equally, though for different reasons, but that has already been said. Mrs Winter's concern is the lack of a time-consistency – I believe it has been discussed in depth enough – and Mr Westenthaler's concern is whether the accused action – and this is always about the action that is being blamed in the specific case; we have not been able to assess whether he has committed it or not, that is our assessment, that we have not at all the instruments and the possibilities – was a political activity and has been in connection with his political activity. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, ask yourself very objectively this question: Would you believe – no matter who the affected person would have been – that every other, quite abstractly segregated – that starting with a car against the leg of a policeman can be a political act, a political activity of a delegate or not? I think that if you look at this abstractly, the answer is perfectly clear: That cannot be it, it is not a political activity, whether as a sports speaker, as a transport speaker or in any other function of the honourable Member. It also makes no difference whether it is a driving away from a football game or an election event. Whether he was a sports speaker at this football match or even private, that makes no difference, and whether it was a political event or not, makes no difference either. I would really like to ask colleagues from the BZÖ to deal sensitively with this question, because the focus on the public is, in the end, a more sensitive issue. It is simply about the fact that we have consciously changed the practice from earlier on due to other legal bases: Traffic offences should not fall under immunity. We do not want politicians, representatives of this House or mandates of other legislative bodies to be protected if they do not behave well in road transport. Every citizen and citizen should be the same – even if he or she is a representative in this House. Your arguments, Mr Stadler, Mr Scheibner, are ultimately not valid. Let's put these arguments to a test once! If you now say it is to judge whether the indicator does not exercise a political function, whether he is a member of a political party and whether that was the cause and reason for this ad. Let's turn it around! Would that now mean that we have to pronounce immunity for any action for which a BZÖ delegate is indicated by one member of another political party? If he is indicated by a BZÖ politician, then there is no immunity, then he is extradited and then the court has to decide? - I guess it can't be. This cannot be the measure of assessment. Therefore – in conclusion –: We are not to have to judge those who are guilty of guilt or innocence, as Mr Scheibner pointed out earlier, the court is responsible. The court has the instruments, it has the evidence to appreciate, and if the act has not been committed, then in this case an acquittal will be to be taken from the court. Our task is to establish the political context. That is what we have done – I think I have just given sufficient reason to why there is no political link here – and this is done without prejudice to the person and without prejudice to the club of a Member of Parliament we have to judge. This decision was therefore clear. It is also in line with the practice of the Immunities Committee and this House in cases of immunity, namely the practice of years and decades. There are no differences here, and there should be no differences in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15776	The next item is Mr Grosz's speech. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the entire period of residence of the BZÖ is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15798	Madam President. High house! Mr Stadler said: The Pandora canals are open. - Yes, she's open! Yes, it's open when we get the notification list for the 9th. See the meeting in which a request from the national court is made to hand me over to a certain Mr Pöchinger, spokesperson of Mrs Gastinger, who sent me on 30 May. November, one month after the Angelobung, due to bad renunciation, due to a press release that ran on 30.5. Yes, the Pandora's booklets are open if we allow a Member of this House, a representative of the Republic of Austria, to be displayed with an ad that is thin, with an ad that is contradictory in itself, without any evidence being presented by a Social Democratic Group official, by a police officer who obviously mixes his party political function with his work as executive officer. [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] In view of this – I say quite correctly – there should be a request from this House to the Minister of the Interior to initiate disciplinary proceedings against such officials as focus party policy and not their service for the benefit of the country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Immunity is the means of division of violence, and this immunity also protects the legislative mandates from the executive and from abuses if the matter has a party political background like this. I'm already asking the question: What's next? Mr. Head of Parliament is indicated by a member of the Socialist Youth, that he was on his feet ten months ago? Mr. Cap is showing a farmer's bandage because 15 months ago he was driving the tractor over him, and he's on it today, that the head is sitting a little bit wrong? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – Let us not be disdainful, nor do we deny the High House! Let's not measure by two measures! I therefore call on you not to carry out this extradition on your own account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15853	Mr Hübner has now come to speak. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15874	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First, I should like to answer Mr Scheibner's somewhat rhetorical question as to whether we or the other parties would act as we do in the Causa Westenthaler if one of us were affected. We can not only answer this question with Yes, but we can also prove it because we have agreed to the extradition of my colleague, Mr Winter, not only in committee, but also now. There may well be a difference in these two facts and these two accusations, and I will work them out too; not a difference in the sense of how you presented him, but a difference in a completely different direction. Let us perhaps start with Mrs. Winter. If this crime is not a political offence, then it is none. I think we agree on this, because what she did was a political appreciation in a political rally in the context of an election campaign. There were actually two rallys after the last stand, she had made two statements, there were two political values and two political statements in a political rally, it is said. We are therefore aware that we are here in the political field. One can now ask the question – and this also means that extradition is measured – whether there is a necessary time connection with its mandate to the National Council. This is not required in the law, because the law grants immunity to the Member for his political activity. That is, in principle, if we find out: This is a political statement, then the immunity must be granted. However, speaking practice is here – I was informed anyway – not to accept the political context if the speech did not fall at least in the election campaign, which has led directly to the election of the Member. This was not the case, however, but it was the election campaign for the Graz municipal council election, which in turn immediately preceded the National Council election campaign. This is therefore an immediate consequence of political activities, which can be discussed as to whether, according to our saying practice, it is still a link to their activity as a member of the national council. But I'll give you some thought: This is practice and not the law. Then there's something to consider: We have a charge here, and this charge comes from the competent authority, that is from the competent prosecutor, and that is why we have to deal with it. But if we answer a political question, we should also take a close look at what is being charged here. An evaluation of the colleague Winter is accused of Islam. This opinion can be shared or not shared – many do not share it, a small minority may share it. But it is political opinion and political appreciation. The fact that religious doctrines are committed to hatred and degradation is, in itself, dared to file an indictment – I say it a bit devaluing – “bastling”, is dared, but, of course, covered in the rule of law. It is possible to sue everything once, provided that an indictment authority finds itself and if there is no opposition to the indictment at the nearest place. But that is already problematic. And there should be a question of the political value of the entire process and assessment in the sense of our understanding of immunity: Is this a charge that we want to support at all?, or do we not want to draw a line here and say: Then, when political statements are criminalized by putting them under a criminal record which they admittedly admit, because it is very, very soft in both cases, can be assumed if one explains it a little far, we do not play with it. Or do we accept that political statements are criminalized by broad interpretation of political facts – such as these? There I have, carefully expressed, my concerns. Nevertheless, we voted in committee and we will also agree here to reject the political context, for two reasons: First of all, because Mrs. Dr. Winter personally asked for it because she wanted to ask herself because she wanted to explain her case to the Austrian courts and the decision of an Austrian court. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But that's not a scale!]] Unfortunately, I don't understand now, you have to tell me after that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The will of a Member is not a measure!]] What's not a scale? I said why we did this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The will of a Member is not a measure!]] That's not a measure of immunity, Ewald, that's quite clear. – That was the first reason, and I have clearly said that this is not a benchmark, but the reason for our consent and approval. The second reason is that in principle we do not want to question the rule of law and, in principle, do not cover anyone, but that we have an open view of things and say: You have to stand up for justice if the court wants to have one. - That's why we are very generous here. It's quite different, of course – apologise! – in the case of Peter Westenthaler. There is no political link here, apart from what Mr Stadler and Mr Scheibner are always trying to construct here. Analogous to the history of the mafia conspiracy in the FPÖ, which is making up the 5 million, is now underway the SPÖ conspiracy in the police – perhaps in the prosecutor's office – which, for political reasons, would like to sink Mr. Westenthaler? But this is not an argument that now gives us the right to hide someone behind immunity, just because anyone claims that this is a political conspiracy of the police. So we should already believe in our rule of law and in the police that we do not regard it as a political conspirator group analogous to the Georgian mafia, which is quoted time and again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I wish you that none of you do!]] Although – apologise, dear Ewald – Ewald Stadler is a multi-talent and also able to conduct a criminal proceedings here in 4 minutes of his speaking time with evidence, legal assessments and all, it cannot nevertheless be that the evocative statements of the Ewald Stadler replace a trial and that we say: Stadler has explained this so well, the witnesses are unbelievable and wrong, that's a SPÖler, and that's why we don't even have to deliver, because that's really bad! – Of course, that can't be it. In this case, we would probably create a disastrous picture in the public if we did not deliver, if perhaps the crime was not the way it was accused. We all don't know that, we have to leave that to the ordinary courts. And that's why our decision is clear: in both cases, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e15965	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler to speak. Mr deputies, you know the provisions: first of all, the points to be corrected, then the points that have been corrected. All this in two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16006	I'm actually correcting: Mr Donnerbauer claimed that I would have asked the future Minister of Justice to intervene in criminal proceedings with political means. – That’s wrong! I asked – appealing to a Christian-social ÖVP – that she ensure that in the future the Minister of Justice will ensure that law enforcement authorities, in particular the prosecutors, protect the symbols of Christian faith with the same sustainability as they do in the case of winter in connection with the symbols of Islam. - That's my appeal. This is not a political intervention, but it is the appeal to ensure the continuous equal treatment of all religions!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16041	Mr Brosz is now speaking. 7 minutes desired speaking time; the remaining speaking time of the Greens is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16062	Madam President. I have listened to Mr Stadler with great interest in various speeches in the past and I thought that there was a lot of rhetoric, some of it also in content. If you look at this more closely and in this case you study the act carefully and then see what Mr Stadler is doing here, you will become a little more careful when observing his speeches, because in both cases very essential elements are missing. Mrs Winter: There is not only the accusation of the degradation of religious teachings, but also of hatred, in another context. Mrs. Winter has a son who has already said in the run-up to the Graz municipal election campaign that a sheep flock should be grassed in the Graz City Park in order to prevent rapes in Graz. [[Call the FPÖ:Sippenhaftung!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ:Sippenhaftung!]] – Maybe you listen to me, then you will know what I want out of it. In addition, Mrs Winter, in interviews, asked what she thought about this statement, said: The youth can already shoot over the target. Six weeks later, Mrs. Winter is sitting in a Graz school – that is, by the way, the part of this immunity act; I quote: We should build a brothel in the city park so that the Muslim men can go there and not commit to the girls in the city park. [[Abg. Singers: Shame!]] [[Abg. She didn't say that!]] That is from the immunity act, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. She didn't say that!]] That's from the immunity record. [[Abg. Strache: This is exactly this untruth, that is exactly this lie that is being worked on with!]] I don't know what we're talking about; I'm quoting the immunity act. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] That is why there is also a demand for extradition. By the way, it would have been difficult for us to deal with this statement if it had not already been done in January, but in the run-up to the current National Council election, for then no extradition would have taken place after the house's saying practice. The fact is that immunity has to do with its parliamentary activity as a national councillor. And in that case, it is about the accusation of the hatred that took place at a time that had nothing to do with the mandate. Therefore, there can only be an extradition here. To the colleague Westenthaler. – To describe the incident again about which it is going: After Austria's European Championship against Germany, Colleague Westenthaler left the VIP parking lot and wanted to turn left. This direction of travel was blocked, and already at the games before it; in that case, for a rather clear reason, because the convoy of the state guests, including Mrs. Merkel, should leave – 20 cars, two buses, how the files were taken – and therefore the bending was not possible there. The act describes the following process – whether it is so correct or not, is another chapter; but it is also not our task to review it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Were you there too?]] I'm just trying to describe that that's not our job. Which means: Were you there too? – I do not assume to you that in that case there is clarity, nor do I assume any po-licis that he deliberately says the untruth, only that there is an extradition. - That's what you're going to put! If you are talking about the suspicion of innocence, I do not understand the reverse at all that you are basically saying that every police officer involved lies here, you want to blacken up and make false statements so that Mr Westenthaler is persecuted. That's the statement that's there. Back to the incident: You have been asked several times not to turn left if you had ignored this request [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What's in the act...?]] I do not know, perhaps we can reach an agreement at least once on the accusation in the act! You would have ignored this call several times, and then slowly – no one has said that you overcame him – you would have hit your knees so that he lost his balance and had to support himself because you wanted to force your turn to the left. - That's the accusation. This accusation is evidenced by three police officers who took part in this official act – the police themselves and two others – so there are three who have said the same thing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Two!]] In the act, appeals are made to a folder, which also confirms this accusation. There is another fifth witness by a chauffeur who was there, and in principle a very uniform picture of the incident is described. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He said something else!]] No, he said nothing else, and that is also the next quotation from Mr Stadler, who is not right. Those who look at the act can see that these witness statements are all quite similar. Now I ask you the other way round: In the event that someone else in this Republic would be made this accusation, would anyone come up with the idea of not being persecuted because there is a political connection? – What are the possibilities of delegates, sports speakers or others? That they can drive around by car and know when they see any SPÖ policemen that nothing can happen to them because they are immune? That's absurd! You can't argue like that! [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] In this case, there is the accusation of resistance to state power. Mr Stadler has criticised the fact that there is also the accusation of serious body injury: To this end, it must be said that the police officer from the very beginning said that he was not seriously injured, but that this advertisement must be done automatically when it comes to a policeman. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one claimed that either!]] Yes, it has fallen several times! The question was asked in the room why he did not go to the hospital for months. – The police said that he felt a slight stabbing pain, that it was not so bad that he had to go to the official's office, and that he did not go into illness either. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] And why can't he make the testimony if it's been that way? It can't be a political privilege that if you're a politician, you can act as you want! One cannot expect an incident, just because someone is a politician, to be persecuted, with the claim that police are basically lying! This incident certainly has no political connection, therefore extradition is necessary, and the courts will have to clarify whether this accusation is correct or not, and to decide accordingly. We do not want such political privileges that a politician cannot be persecuted for such accusations!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16252	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16273	I come again to this “Pingpong game” with Georgia and say once and for all: I don't know any Georgian I knew was a Mafia. Next point: This history of extradition today does not make a good picture both legally and politically! First, a sentence on the Causa Westenthaler: Such events are not too rare in pushing around parking spaces and similar. In general, the most tried need is not what was charged here. So I consider the charge in the Causa Westenthaler – purely legal, regardless of the question of the political context that may exist or may not exist – to be fundamental. In the Causa Susanne Winter, it is clear to us that, if so, one strives to pursue political disapproval with the help of criminal law. – The second point of the allegation is to be addressed first of all by the question of the matter, which will, of course, play a role in the court proceedings. Susanne Winter argues most strongly that he has ever made this statement. To this end, it should be noted that: The statement number one was made by her, but in connection with the Graz municipal election campaign. – I think the saying practice is incorrect. I believe that the political context is not limited to the election campaign to restrict the National Council mandate or to the activity of a member of the National Council, but that immunity begins with the fishing of the National Councillor and is to be extended to all cases of political activity, which can be understood and interpreted in a timely manner. It cannot be assumed that in the future political statements, which have been admittedly heightened, may be insulting to some and cannot be shared by some of the view, will be clarified by means of criminal law. Then the separation between legislation and its policies on the one hand and the case law on the other is divided and repealed. That's not the point of constitutional law! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For good reason, the sense of parliamentary immunity is a protective effect of the separation of power. This is a certain counterpart to the case law: Just as the case law is completely independent in all instances, so is the personal immunity of mandaters. It is true that, as a result of historical development, immunity was developed conceptually and objectively in favour of the persecuted socialist delegates, and that was also very good. Despite the fact that we do not want to get into the skin gout to not deliver our Members out of personal protectionism, I repeat that the prosecutor is being improperly extravagant here. So we will probably still have to deal with this issue in the future! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16339	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16361	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few remarks to Mr Stadler, who has been working here again and again with his various slander scenarios and conspiracy scenarios. Mr. Stadler, I understand you. In recent months, I have had to experience more and more explanations from you, in which you have apparently tried to work out your strache complex or your strache phobia therapeutically and group dynamically! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I understand. I mean, however, that the political Tourette Syndrome that accompanies you and which expresses itself in the fact that you are permanently tearing down when you come to speak is not the right and fine way! I mean, maybe you should think for yourself about whether it's good to act like this! Mr Pirveli, whom you mentioned and, so to speak, to the Mafia, is a refugee recognised by the Geneva Convention and threatened to be murdered in his country. He is the head of a Georgian opposition party, and he has also discussed the issue of Georgia at a Russian and Georgian conference in Vienna, which organised the Austrian Freedom Party. That you are now apparently putting yourself on the side of the dictator Saakashvili and here trying to create things, that is already a very strange way of view that you should question! They vilify and insult a refugee in the sense of the Geneva Convention as a mafioso. That should be your home, but that shows the quality of your comments – not existing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll stop because it's really too bad to waste time on it, but I'd like to go into it again: We know that you keep working with conspiracy theories! You have lived that before against the BZÖ, when you have acted with all possible claims that the Freemason, Scientologist, warm brothers and beekeepers, and EADS institutions. We know that! In this regard, however, you have shown a tremendous ability to adapt, because today you are sitting with those whom you have called so! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That, Mr. Stadler, shows your personal disintegration. But I am looking for you to get yourself into the clean, clear and personal way of life – and not always to think of your various influences! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the act of the Immunities Committee on the two different areas. – Mr Westenthaler has the suspicion in the room that he should have attacked a police officer. As Mr Westenthaler says, this can be said by everyone. In this case, a total of three police officers confirm this. I think Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer has already shown this: It's wondering if the charge, as it was formulated, is right. The fact that it is not a political act, of course, if you do not follow a policeman or a policeman's call and then drive him by car is another question. In contrast to the statements made by Mr Susanne Winter, who, in the course of a political event, took political action in a political speech, about which one can discuss, certainly has nothing to do with a political action! In the case of Dr. Susanne Winter, it can be said that she has kept in her esteem that it cannot be the case that in our legal system anyone can get involved in our children or that minors can be married. That is because, according to our legal system today, thanks to God, it is really hard to be punished, and that Mrs. Dr. Winter is making this statement a accusation and in this regard he is in fact the scandal! (Applause from the FPÖ) That's exactly the point: Colleague Winter has never called a founder of religion “children’s legions. ” She never did! This has been deliberately falsely assumed to her. She has always expressly said that in today's legal system everyone, regardless of who believes he can marry minors or be sexually guilty of minors, must, of course, be a child's shame and must also be punished. And as a mother, I understand her indignation, because unfortunately such developments in our society are indeed the case! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You're not a mother!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Unfortunately, there are such developments of God, and I understand that every mother and father must be affected by the fact that there is something like this here in Austria! At the Children's and Youth Procuratorship here in Vienna – not somewhere in the Islamic world, but here in Central Europe! – more than 50 percent of minor Muslim girls have been introduced and have sought protection and help because they are forced by their families or fathers or brothers and are forced to enter a forced marriage as minors. This is going on in our society! By the way, this is to be read in the report of the Vienna Children's and Youth Prosecution, and that is not a FPÖ-near institution! Rather, this is one of the most dominant SPÖ institutions in Vienna! That is exactly what we are talking about, and that is what Mrs Winter rightly referred to. It is a command that we protect minors from such developments, and no one should call for such things to happen sometime in the Middle Ages. It must not be called upon to see that the practice that may have been lived sometime may have been, and to hide behind a religious community! Today, nothing like this has been lost in our legal system! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is exactly the crucial point, which has also been expressed, but which has been deliberately torn from the context. Not for nothing is the woman of the year. The Unesco became aware of this as such. The picture went through all the media that a minor girl as a twelve-year-old was forced to marry in the Islamic world, opposed, and then fortunately a divorce was possible. Fortunately, this case has gone well, but there are enough other cases of forced-married minor girls in the Islamic world, who have opposed themselves to being stoned or even sentenced to death. In view of that, we should not go into the agenda! This is about our legal system, which is sometimes called into question here and today in our society. It takes courage to address these problems, and that's exactly what Dr. Susanne Winter did! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My colleague, Mr Winter, has not devalued any religious community, nor has she done any harm – and this is not a question of Sippenhaftung, as Mr Brosz claims in his speech here and has tried to put something false back into the room! It is not a question of being responsible for the quote of a statement that is said to have met her or also a relative, namely the son of Dr. Winter. This was not her statement, which is evidenced by students who were at the time at this school discussion in which a politically motivated teacher and the panel round Dr. Susanne Winter faced this quote. That did not match her statement, but she was confronted with it, and of course she tried to defend her son. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is precisely this political arbitraryity, which unfortunately is also taken over uncritically by media, which is why such reporting takes place. In addition, the indictment also refers to the horrific term “immigration tsunami”. We have already heard many terms when it comes to critically assessing the irresponsible mass immigration, whether it is about a wave of immigration, an immigration slave or just an immigrationunami. It cannot be said that, on the basis of certain political values and terms, we are already dealing with such politically motivated procedures in this country, which is called a free and democratic country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this case, a lawyer close to the Green Party has become active – well, I understand. But we have confidence in the independent courts and the jurisdiction of Austria! That is also the reason why we say in this absurd procedure, which is being elected here: We agree to this extradition because we have nothing to hide and nothing to hide. Mrs. Dr. Winter didn't break anything. On the contrary: Mrs Winter has raised a problem in our time and society, and it can be said critically that she may not have formulated it properly and properly, but she has, in essence, correctly mentioned that there are developments in our society in this regard. And that must be possible in a free society that holds something on to itself. This cannot and must not end before the courts, and above all can and must not end with a condemnation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why it was so important for me to have briefly illuminated this content in the short time available today, because of course we will not go into the agenda either. It is important to draw up the difference: In this case, it is about the fact that a Member of Parliament has met with political values and has to find himself in front of the Kadi today. On the other hand, there is someone who is said not to have followed the instructions of an executive official in the course of a sports visit and who is said to have attacked the officials. Mrs Winter is a political appreciation and political statement in the political context. With the other Causa, the political context is not recognizable for me. It may be – I am right to say to Mr Westenthaler – that this absurdity will prove and will be confirmed in the course of the procedure. I'll give it to him! But then it really has to be done against these executive officials with absolute hardness, because then it would be really obvious and obvious that party-political motivation was behind it, and that has a court to clarify, and then we also expect these officials to be confronted with all disciplinary proceedings.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16491	Now, Mr Magist. Stadler to speak. 2 minutes Total residence time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16513	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They have just experienced H. C. Strache in his new role as a mother and asylum defender in! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'm not taking the asylum guard completely from you, though! When it comes to Levan Pirveli, my colleague, Mr Strache, is trying to get asylum right at once! ==References====External links== On May 1, 2007, a house search took place, not by the Georgian police, but by the local police, of which you think so much. In this context, two other gentlemen were arrested by the so-called Industrial Party, including a very honourable party, ladies and gentlemen, and also by the local police. – We don’t have people like this, you know, that’s the difference! But I am still waiting for further details, because this debate is not yet over. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donnerbauer, resistance to state power is something completely different from a traffic crime. Mr Westenthaler is not accused of any traffic offence, but of a crime, which is a crime threatened with a maximum penalty, which will definitely lead to the loss of his parliamentary mandate. That means: In the future, judges will decide, on the basis of any dizzy ads, whether anyone can be a Member or not. – This is not an insignificant connection. Secondly, I am horrified that you, Mr Fichtenbauer, as a lawyer here, are talking as if the act had already been proved! This is an act which exists in the act of the prosecutor's office only through the claim of this man, but not on the basis of a single evidence, let alone a medical trial or even an attestation. Any regular lawyer would say that it is already dared to take action in such a thin situation. That is exactly what Mr Fichtenbauer is doing. That is why I would like to tell you, Mr Fichtenbauer, in the interests of your clients: Be more cautious when accusing of a proven act! Perhaps today you have gone through some personal moment with regard to Mr Westenthaler. But I would like to stress: A deed that has been so thinly demonstrated by zero evidence, but only by the claim of the alleged victim, has not yet been proved, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16559	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. Also for you 2 minutes total residence time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16580	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are two liberal parties who, wherever there is evidence of suspicious incidents, always demand the full consequence and the merciless application of criminal law. Only when it comes to It itself goes, then suddenly everything is different, then it is lamented, then it is a SPÖ politician there, then it is a prosecutor there, then the criminal law is suddenly no longer applicable, then the pressurization paragraph does not apply, then the “resistance against the state power” does not apply, then suddenly criminal law is to blame, and not the representative of the BZÖ or the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There you have best experiences! You're an expert!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: You're not the judge!]] I read the quote again to you, and I consider the winter case to be much more important than the notary case of Westenthal. In the winter case, the quote is: We should build an animal brothel in the city park so that the Muslim men can go there and not commit to the girls of our city. [[Abg. That's not what she said, and that's exactly the untruth!]] - Quote. [[Abg. Strache: She never said that, that is exactly the false instigation!]] This incident has already been confirmed by agreed witnesses and witnesses from this school and has been burdened by Members of this House. [[Abg. Street: students, countless students who confirm that they have been confronted with this quote! That's exactly the untruth! – Politically motivated teachers who caught the students!]] Yeah, we can't figure out that the prosecutor says he thinks that the scene of the paragraph in the criminal code that describes the hatred is fulfilled. Criminal law will not be based on the Freedom Party and not on the BZO! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You will have the opportunity in court to take a stand against the violence, the resistance to the state power, and others in your parties. They will have all the means of the rule of law at their disposal. But you won't be able to hide behind immunity, and You won't Your privileged position as a Member can be exploited. [[Abg. Strache: We do not hide in contrast to you! Unlike you, we've never hidden!]] [[Further intense calls to the FPÖ.]] Criminal law also applies to FPÖ and BZÖ in the Austrian rule of law!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16701	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 18 of its supplements to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the public prosecutor Graz for approval for the official persecution of the delegates to the National Council Dr. Susanne Winterwill be referred to in Article 57 para. 3 B-VG found that – rationale temporis – there is no link between the incriminated criminal acts and the political activity of the delegates to the National Council Dr Susanne Winter. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This request was adopted unanimously. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 25 of its supplements to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the Procuratorate of Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthalerwill For the purposes of Article 57(2), the following definitions shall apply: 3 B-VG found that no link between the incriminated criminal act and the political activity of the MP to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthalerbestand. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[18:24:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-12-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00008_d8e16784	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 166/A to 315/A. Questions 404/J to 421/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 6:25 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
