ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-10-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e449	The meeting was opened. As prevented, Mr Dobnigg has been reported. [[18:59:08]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-10-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e480	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-10-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e716	I also agree with the motion for a resolution 883/A to the Committee on Transport. I would also like to refer the motion for a resolution 884/A to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. [[18:59:48]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-10-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e754	I announce that Mr Oellinger has asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Mr Mag.'s motion for a resolution 861/A. Christine Lapp, colleagues in a federal law amending the Federal Care Money Act, will set a deadline until 23.9.2008. We shall now proceed to the vote on this request. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:00:28]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2008-07-10-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e800	Ladies and gentlemen! It is traditional in the house that from this point of view, at the end of the meeting of the President – for two years the President – will address you a few words. I can assure you that I will not do it very thoroughly, but let me make a few comments. First of all, and this is important to me, even in the short term, to say: In the past year, it has been so often as never before in the past that we ourselves – but also many others with us – have been concerned about the way we work, the scope of work and much more. I think that the Members of this House – and so I understand my office – have a right to present themselves accordingly, not to put their work under the Scheme, but rather to receive all the support they need. And I'm really trying to be honest, and I think you're the same. We've gotten a lot of things to do. I just want to remind you that we now have three questions behind us, which we do after a new mode. This is not yet reflected in the Rules of Procedure, but I believe we are on the right track to bring in some changes to the Rules of Procedure, in our course, in our course of the day, in the course of the week, in the course of the month. I would very much like that in the XXIV. Much of what has already been sent on the road, about which many discussions have already taken place, is not being thrown away, but rather picked up and brought to the end. I thank you at this point, because many of the discussions are about how we plan our committee dates, and many more are taking place in the Presidency. I would like to thank the members of the Presidency for their good cooperation, primarily the Second President, Dr. Michael Spindelegger and the Third President Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek. I think we've been good at it all the time. Thank you very much. I thank the five clubmen. We have found in the Presidential a style where I think that at the end of the discussions a good decision always took place. However, I have two more comments to make before I add my thanks. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done it together, the House and you, that we in this House have taken a very unsavory initiative which Europe is now paying great attention to: the democracy workshop. We have already enabled young people, namely the 16-year-old, to vote and prepare them – like hardly any other institution – for it. And I would like to thank you for your cooperation in the democracy workshop. We got her last year on 25. Opened in October. I can tell you: We already had 7,100 children in the “democracy workshop”. [[General condolences.]] We should continue this path in the next legislative period. There are also many proposals for refinement, improvement. I believe that it is well-invested money if we continue to accept this democratic workshop in Parliament in the future. And I am very grateful to the staff members of this institution, which really does great things. I can tell you very briefly: The house's opening continues. There is also only one highlight: While many have lamented and feared the EURO, Parliament has actively prepared for it. During the three weeks of the EURO, we have had four times as many visitors as possible during guided tours. That is, even here the commitment we have put in there together has paid off, and the people have gone out very happy again. I have also received very nice letters from Hamburg, from various areas of Europe, from people who have been very pleased that we have received them so openly. I think this too is a good omen and a good prestige that we show here too. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by thanking the employees of the house very much. [[General condolences.]] I would like to thank the Director of Parliament, Dr Posch, very much for his care, sometimes also for his forbearance. I thank you for the good cooperation; it is excellent to work with him. [[General condolences.]] I thank the two vice directors, Dr. Klausgraber and Dr. Bauer. And I would like to thank the two of them twice at this point, because you all know that both will retire during this year. We will have plenty of opportunity to thank ourselves again in autumn, but I would also like to do so at this point: Thanks to the two gentlemen for their many years – not only for the last year – work here in the house. [[General condolences.]] With this, I come seamlessly to two service managers, whom I have learned to appreciate very, very much, who you all appreciate: Mrs. Dr. Janistyn and Mr. Mag. Wintoniak, because the two will have the functions of deputy parliamentary directors in the future. As a woman, I can allow myself to say: It will be the first time in the history of this house that we also have a vice director. That too is an important signal, I think. [[General condolences.]] I thank Dr. Müller, Dr. Wirrer, Dr. Marckhgott and Dr. Siess-Scherz. With Dr. Siess-Scherz, we have received the third woman at the service manager level over the course of this year. Of course, I also thank Mrs. Dr. Bachmann, whom we have much less to do with, since she is responsible for the Federal Council. But here, too, I am very happy about it and also a little proud that we have succeeded in the management of the Parliament to have three women among the seven heads of service – for if we do not, who else should we ask to actively promote women? [[General condolences.]] I am looking for all seven service managers to pass on our thanks to their employees, from the excellent lawyers to the house workers, who, I say, at celebrations, at events that are about awards et cetera, really often have to do brilliant and incredible things, many things that Members do not see. And I speak from my own experience; if I were not President, I would not have met many things. What's behind it is that everything works the way it works, the Members would only see if it didn't work. And for this varied activity, this great challenge of every individual, not only to stand in one place, but to work in many different places and to get the best done there over and over again, thanks to the staff. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the staff of the clubs, the parliamentary staff. [[General condolences.]] The coming weeks and months will be very intense for all of us. I've already been asked: What will the Members do during the part-session? I could easily answer: They're going to be on campaign. I hope that a fair debate will take place in this election campaign. Many of us will find ourselves inside after this election campaign, and we should still be able to see ourselves in the eye. In that sense, everything is good! [[General condolences.]] ==References== The next meeting of the National Council will take place in September again. This meeting is closed.
